ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the specific factors listed below, together with the cautionary statement under the caption "Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward Looking Statements" and the other information included in this report. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of any investment in our common stock. Risks Relating to Our Business We have a history of losses, and may not achieve profitability in the future, which would adversely affect the price of our common shares. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we reported a net loss of $7.3 million. From our inception on January 16, 2002 through December 31, 2005, we incurred net losses of approximately $10.7 million. Tarpon has funded such losses and a portion of its acquisition costs through equity investments, credit facilities and through the proceeds of its initial public offering. If Tarpon's operating subsidiaries are not able to attain profitability, they would be unable to continue operations. Our liquidity may not be sufficient to sustain operations. Based on our current business plans, we believe that our existing cash resources will be sufficient to fund its operating losses, capital expenditures, debt payments and working capital requirements for the next 12 months. The estimated length of time that our cash resources will sustain operations is based on management assumptions. These estimates and assumptions are subject to change as a result of actual experience. We may not be able to attain profitability. Failure to generate sufficient revenues, achieve certain other business plan objectives or raise additional funds could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position, including our ability to continue as a going concern. Management's plans include completing the cost reduction begun in January 2006, improved receivables and inventory management, maintaining of margins as steel prices fluctuate, and continuing the development of its customers and markets through its sales initiatives. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve our business plan objectives or that we will be able to generate cash flows from operations. If we are unable to generate adequate funds from operations or raise additional funds, we may not be able to repay our existing debt or funds operations. We have mortgages coming due on Steelbank's plant. We currently have mortgage financing for the Steelbank facility, which becomes due in May 2006. We are seeking to pay the same through a potential sale and lease back transaction and have signed a definitive agreement for this transaction. If we are unsuccessful in completing this transaction, Steelbank's facility could become subject to foreclosure, which could have a material affect on our operations. We could be evicted from the premises which would likely require us to discontinue Steelbank business for a significant period of time or even permanently. - Our level of indebtedness materially affects our operations and even our survival. As of December 31, 2005 our total consolidated indebtedness for borrowed money, including current maturities, was approximately $20.6 million. Subject to the limits on EWCO and Steelbank pursuant to their credit facilities, we may incur additional debt in the future. Our level of indebtedness and the debt servicing costs associated with that indebtedness will require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, reducing cash flow available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes. In addition, a material default in our indebtedness could result in the failure of our business. Covenant restrictions in our credit facilities may limit our ability to operate our business and, if we do not comply with them, may prevent us from borrowing under those facilities and may require us to seek to refinance our loans. We are currently in violation of certain financial covenants for the EWCO and Steelbank credit facilities. As a result of these violations and cross collateral terms in our convertible note we are in violation of covenants with the note holder. We are currently negotiating with our lenders to obtain waivers and reset our covenant levels in order to comply with our lending agreements. We are also in violation with our lender due to the issuance of a qualified opinion. We have obtained a waiver from our lender of the convertible note concerning this issue. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in our negotiations to obtain waivers or new covenants. EWCO has a credit facility secured by all of its assets. Its loan agreement requires it to maintain a minimum debt service coverage ratio and minimum tangible net worth. It also generally prohibits dividends and limits EWCO's ability to make capital expenditures and incur additional debt. Steelbank has a credit facility secured by all of its personal property. Its credit facility prohibits Steelbank from guaranteeing additional indebtedness, incurring indebtedness, creating liens, paying dividends, making certain types of investments, entering into transactions with affiliates, making capital expenditures, selling assets, merging with other companies or entering into any transactions outside of the ordinary course of business. It also requires it to maintain certain financial tangible net worth debt service coverage and interest coverage. These covenants for EWCO and Steelbank affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. Moreover, our failure to comply with the financial or other covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could prevent us from borrowing under our credit facilities and could cause us to seek to refinance our borrowings. Tarpon has a convertible term note secured by certain assets of Tarpon and its subsidiaries and the equity interests of Tarpon's subsidiaries. The note requires Tarpon to use the proceeds to repay certain obligations, finance acquisitions and fund other working capital needs. In addition, as long as 25% of the principal amount of the note is outstanding, Tarpon is, without the prior written consent of the Purchaser, prevented from declaring or paying dividends, issuing or redeeming certain types of preferred stock and equity, materially altering or reorganizing the business, incurring, assuming, guaranteeing or canceling any additional indebtedness (exclusive of certain trade debt, debt incurred to finance the purchase of equipment, financing incurred to replace debt on terms no less favorable than the debt being replaced and other debt not considered to have a material impact on the balance sheet). It also provides the lender with first right of refusal to provide additional financing to Tarpon or any of its subsidiaries subject to certain terms and conditions. Rising interest rates have a substantial impact on our interest expense under our working capital loans and impact our ability to make our debt payments. Interest under our existing and proposed working capital facilities and long term debt financing accrues at fluctuating rates. Rising interest rates could have a substantial impact on our interest expense and will impact our ability to make our debt payments. As of December 31, 2005, each 1% increase in prime rates would result in an approximate increase of $180,000 in our yearly interest expense under such facilities, assuming they are at the maximum permitted amounts. We face the loss of a significant customer On October 21, 2005, an involuntary bankruptcy petition was filed against C & W Industries, Inc. (FENCEMaster), which was subsequently converted into a Chapter 11 filing. FENCEMaster was an significant customer to us, representing approximately 9% of our 2005 sales. In 2005, we wrote off $925,000 in unsecured debt. On December 15, 2005 the remaining assets of FENCEMaster were sold to a another party. We have retained the business of such other party through June 2006 and may retain the same thereafter although there can be no assurance of the same. In any case, there can be no assurances that we will retain either the same volume or margins experienced in 2005. There are risks associated with our acquisition strategy, including our inability to successfully complete acquisitions, our assumption of liabilities, dilution of your investment, significant costs and additional financing required. We intend to continue to expand our markets and customers through strategic acquisitions of other steel tubing, steel storage rack system and related product manufacturers, distributors or both. Risks associated with our current and potential acquisitions include the disruption of our ongoing business, problems retaining the employees of the acquired business, assets acquired proving to be less valuable than expected, the potential assumption of unknown or unexpected liabilities, costs and problems, the inability of management to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, the difficulty of managing a larger Company, the risk of becoming involved in labor, commercial or regulatory disputes or litigation related to the new enterprises and the difficulty of integrating the acquired operations and personnel into our existing business. We may use our common shares or other securities to finance a portion of the consideration for future acquisitions, either by issuing them to pay a portion of the purchase price or selling additional shares to investors to raise cash to pay a portion of the purchase price. If our common shares do not maintain sufficient market value or potential acquisition candidates are unwilling to accept our common shares as part of the consideration for the sale of their businesses, we will be required to raise capital through additional sales of debt or equity securities, which might not be possible, or forego the acquisition opportunity, and our growth could be limited. In addition, securities issued in such acquisitions may dilute the holdings of our current or future shareholders. Our common shares are now at historically low prices. Our existing financial resources are not sufficient to finance any additional acquisitions. If we are unable to consummate additional acquisitions with our common shares, which is likely, we will be required to raise capital through additional sales of debt or equity securities, which might not be possible, or forego the acquisition. We have no arrangements for obtaining such capital at this time. We do not have a significant combined operating history with our acquired companies, so historical financial information is not necessarily a good indicator of future results of operations or financial condition; we have limited experience operating and integrating steel tube and pipe and steel storage rack system manufacturers and distributors. In 2004, we acquired EWCO and Steelbank, and in 2005, we acquired Haines Road which was combined with Steelbank. All of our senior management group joined us in 2004 or later, and two senior EWCO managers resigned following our purchase of EWCO. As a result, our experience as a unified enterprise in operating steel manufacturers and distributors is very limited, and the financial information regarding our acquired companies included in this report substantially reflects their operations before we acquired, managed and controlled them and may not be indicators of their future results of operation or financial condition. In addition, our lack of a combined operating history may result in difficulty integrating our operations, service interruptions to our customers, inefficiencies and conflicts. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Our present and future performance depends on the continued service of our key sales, production and senior management personnel and consultants. Our key employees include J. Peter Farquhar, our Chief Executive Officer, John A. Mayfield , our Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer, Patrick J. Hook, our President and Chief Operating Officer, and C. David Weaver, Vice President of Sales & Engineering in EWCO's SpaceRak(R) division. We have retained Bainbridge Advisors, Inc., an advisory firm primarily owned by Gary D. Lewis, our former Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, to provide general advice and services and to assist us in completing and integrating our acquisitions. The loss of the services of any of these individuals or entities could have an adverse effect on us. Mr. Mayfield has notified as he is resigning upon the filing of this Report on Form 10-K and we will search for a replacement, although we have no assurance as to when a replacement will be hired. We do not maintain any significant key man life insurance on any of our key personnel. Our internal financial reporting procedures are still being developed and we will need to allocate significant resources to meet applicable internal financial reporting standards. Our management has evaluated, with the participation of our principal executive and principal financial officers, the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2005. Based on their evaluation and review, our principal executive and principal financial officers have concluded that these controls and procedures, as designed and implemented, are not operating effectively. There was no change in our internal control over financial reporting identified in connection with such evaluation that occurred during our fourth fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2005 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting, except that we hired additional staff, which will help improve our internal controls over financial reporting. Disclosure controls and procedures are our controls and other procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and forms. Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Until April 2004, we consisted only of a holding company with no operations. In April and May 2004, we acquired EWCO and Steelbank. These companies were established private companies with accounting procedures not suitable for public company reporting. In February 2005, we acquired Haines Road which was combined with Steelbank. This was one operation of a larger private company, again with accounting procedures which were not suitable for public company reporting. Our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm has identified a variety of material weaknesses in our internal financial reporting procedures. These material weaknesses stem in significant part from the acquisition policy which we are following in which private, unrelated companies are being combined. A material weakness is a significant deficiency, or a combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. The material weaknesses are as follows: A. A lack of formalized accounting policies and procedures, including written procedures for monthly, quarterly and annual closing of our financial books and records. B. A lack of common systems or a common chart of accounts and we use spreadsheets to perform consolidations, which has resulted in errors. C. Insufficient resources and knowledge to adequately complete the process and documenting, testing, and evaluating our internal controls over financial reporting required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. D. Account reconciliations and supporting documentation not prepared on a timely basis. E. Duties and control activities within the finance function have not been appropriately segregated. F. The Company does not have a formal process to ensure that appropriate system access is granted. G. A lack of adequate process to identify and ensure that non-standard journal entries are subject to an appropriate level of review. H. Little review or oversight of the reporting process which has resulted in the inability to detect errors. I. The Company's invoicing system relies on certain manual controls which may not be sufficient to minimize the risk of incorrect revenue recognition, and J. The Company is required to comply with the provisions of Sections 302, 906 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Section 404 requires the Company to document, test, and evaluate its internal controls over financial reporting and have its independent auditor conduct an evaluation of and report on management's evaluation process in the near future. In addition, we will also be required to audit and report on the effectiveness of internal controls. All material weaknesses identified in this process are required to be disclosed in the Company's reporting with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our experience with is documentation, testing and audit process has identified that significant resources are required to complete this exercise and considerable costs are incurred. We do no believe that the Company currently has the resources or knowledge to adequately complete this process which could result in a failure to file the appropriate reports with the SEC. As a public Company, we have significant requirements for enhanced financial reporting and internal controls. We are taking steps to unify the financial reporting of all of our component companies, to increase our accounting and information technology staff and to put in place internal controls concerning accounting entries and adjustments, with full documentation, which are responsive to the issues raised by our independent auditors, and, as of this time, we have made progress on these points. We have hired additional staff and are in the initial planning phase of upgrading our information technology systems. We expect these steps to be completed by December 31, 2006, but it is possible that they might not be completed by then. These efforts require significant time and resources. If we are unable to establish appropriate internal financial reporting controls and procedures, our reported financial information may be inaccurate and we will encounter difficulties in the audit or review of our financial statements by our independent auditors, which in turn may have material adverse effects on our ability to prepare financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and to comply with our SEC reporting obligations. Our products are viewed as commodities and are subject to intense competition based principally on price. Our structural and mechanical steel tubing and steel storage rack systems products is essentially a commodity. As a result, we are subject to intense competition, principally based on price and secondarily so based on how closely the product conforms to specifications, product availability, delivery and service. Some of our competitors are larger than we are, have larger product lines, have more diversified businesses, have well-established reputations and customer relationships and have greater financial, engineering, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and management resources than we do and are more able to engage in price competition. Our products have limited geographic markets. Because of the size and weight of structural and mechanical steel tubing and the resulting costs of transportation and price competition, it is generally not cost effective to ship these products more than 800 miles from the manufacturing plant. This and customers' short lead-time requirements limit the market for our steel tubing products. The volatile nature of steel prices has and could adversely affect our sales and operating profits. The cost of steel for manufacturing our products represented approximately 67% of Company revenues in 2005. As a result, steel prices, which are highly volatile and cyclical in nature, materially affects our business. Changes in steel prices have a significant impact on the margins of our products. While we attempt to recover any increase in steel costs by increasing the price of our product, increases in the prices of our products might not fully compensate for steel price increases and can lag behind increases in steel prices, adversely affecting our gross profit margins. Due to inventory carrying costs and general market dynamics, decreases in steel costs have historically resulted in reduction of volume and gross profit margins, which occurred in 2005. Steel prices for our base steel coil declined approximately 23% over the first eight months of 2005 and increased approximately 9% over the last four months of 2005. We are dependent on a few suppliers for a significant portion of our steel, so interruption of that supply could impair our ability to manufacture our products or require us to pay higher prices to obtain steel. In 2005, we purchased approximately 34% in dollar value of our steel from four suppliers. While we believe steel is generally available from a number of suppliers, the loss of any of our present suppliers, interruption of production at one or more of these suppliers or any other disruption in the supply of steel from these suppliers could impair our ability to manufacture our products or require us to pay higher prices to obtain steel from other sources. We do not intend to maintain significant inventories of steel. A majority of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements that could subject us to additional labor costs or strikes. As of February 12, 2006, approximately 121 EWCO employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters that expires in October 2006. While we believe our relations with these employees are good, if we are unable to renew the collective bargaining agreements on mutually agreeable terms, it would result in labor disruptions, strikes, plant shutdowns and increased labor costs, which could result in lost sales and increase the costs of producing our products. We are dependent on third parties to transport our products, so their failure to transport our products could adversely affect our earnings, sales and geographic market. We use third parties for the majority of our shipping and transportation needs. If these parties fail to deliver our products in a timely fashion, including due to lack of available trucks or drivers, labor stoppages, or traffic delays at the U.S. or Canadian borders, or if there is an increase in transportation costs, including due to increased fuel costs, it would have a material adverse effect on our earnings and could reduce our sales and geographic market. Steelbank's operations are located in Canada, and exchange rate fluctuations between the US and Canadian dollar will affect our results of operations. Steelbank's sales and operating costs are transacted primarily in Canadian dollars. As a United States Company, we will be exposed to cash flow and earnings volatility as a result of fluctuations in relative currency values. In particular, our results of operations may be adversely affected by a strengthening of the United States dollar against the Canadian dollar. A strengthening of the Canadian dollar against the United States dollar would adversely affect our ability to export products manufactured in Canada. Seasonal fluctuations affect demand for our products. We experience seasonal fluctuations in demand for our products. Historically, the demand for our steel tubing products typically peaks during the first and second calendar quarters, while demand for our steel storage rack systems typically peaks during the third and fourth calendar quarters. The timing of these fluctuations has been dependent on the overall economy and may change as our customer and product mix change. Equipment failures will interfere with production and increase costs. Our manufacturing processes depend on production mills and related equipment, which are occasionally out of service as a result of mechanical failures. We may experience material plant shutdowns or periods of reduced production as a result of equipment failures. Interruptions in our production capabilities will increase production costs and reduce our sales and earnings. Furthermore, any interruption in production capability may require us to make capital expenditures to remedy the situation, which could have a negative effect on our profitability and cash flows. In addition to equipment failures, our facilities are also subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events such as fires, loss of energy, explosions and adverse weather conditions. We are dependent on a small sales force for a majority of our sales, so losing any of them would adversely affect our business. We depend on an internal sales force of 13 people. Our sales force accounted for approximately 90% of the Company's sales in 2005. Therefore, the loss of any of our sales employees may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on our distributors for a significant portion of our SpaceRak(R) sales, so their failure to sell our products adequately would adversely affect our business. We depend on our distributors for a significant portion of our sales of SpaceRak(R) products. If our distributors fail to market, promote and sell our products adequately, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Purchasers of our products may assert product liability claims against us. Actual or claimed defects in our products could give rise to product liability claims against us. We might be sued because of injury or death, property damage, loss of production or suspension of operations resulting from actual or claimed defects in our products. Regardless of whether we are ultimately determined to be liable, we might incur significant legal expenses not covered by insurance. In addition, products liability litigation could damage our reputation and impair our ability to market our products. Litigation could also impair our ability to retain products liability insurance or make our insurance more expensive. We have product liability insurance with a domestic liability limit of $4,000,000 and $4,380,000 for our Canadian operations. We could incur product liability claims in excess of our insurance coverage or that are subject to substantial deductibles, or we may incur uninsured product liability costs. If we are subject to an uninsured or inadequately insured products liability claim based on our products, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Environmental, health and safety laws regulating the operation of our business could increase the costs of producing our products and expose us to environmental claims. Our business is subject to numerous U.S. and Canadian local, state, provincial and federal laws and regulations concerning environmental, health and safety matters, including those relating to air emissions, wastewater discharges and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of hazardous materials. Violations of such laws and regulations could lead to substantial fines and penalties. Also, there are risks of substantial costs and liabilities relating to the investigation and remediation of past or present contamination, at current or former properties used or owned by us and at third-party disposal sites, regardless of fault or the legality of the original activities that led to such contamination. Moreover, future developments, such as changes in laws and regulations, more stringent enforcement or interpretation of laws and regulations, and claims for property damage or personal injury would cause us to incur substantial losses or expenditures. Although we believe we are in substantial compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, such laws, regulations, enforcement proceedings or private claims might have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Relating to Our Common Shares The market price of our common shares has fluctuated significantly and there is presently not a significant trading market for the common shares There is currently not a significant trading market for the common shares on the American Stock Exchange, and holders of our common shares might find it difficult to sell their common shares. The market price of our common shares has been volatile. Also, changes in our business, our results of operations, our financial condition, our industry, the economy, stock markets in general and trading in our stock in particular could cause the market price of our shares to fluctuate substantially. We may not be able to maintain our listing on the American Stock Exchange, which would adversely affect the price of our common stock. Although our common shares are listed on the American Stock Exchange, we might not meet the criteria for continued listing on the American Stock Exchange in the future. If we are unable to meet the continued listing criteria of the American Stock Exchange and became delisted, trading of our common shares could be conducted in the over-the-counter market in the so-called "pink sheets" or, if available, the NASD's Electronic Bulletin Board. In such case, an investor would likely find it more difficult to dispose of our securities or to obtain accurate market quotations for them. If our common shares were delisted from the American Stock Exchange, they may become subject to Rule 15g9, under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which imposes sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that sell "penny stock" securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. Application of this rule could adversely affect the ability, willingness or both of broker-dealers to sell our securities. The market price of the common shares may be depressed by shares eligible for future sale, shares reserved for future issuance upon the exercise of options and warrants and registration rights we have granted. Future sales of substantial amounts of common shares in the public market or the perception that such sales may occur could adversely affect the market price of the common shares. As of December 31, 2005, there are 4,640,130 common shares outstanding. Options, warrants and optional convertible note shares to purchase an aggregate of 3,837,154 common shares were outstanding and an additional 234,915 common shares was reserved for issuance upon exercise of options which have not yet been granted under our 2004 stock option plan. The common shares underlying these options and warrants will be eligible for sale under Rule 144 beginning at varying times from the date of this report. We have registered for resale 758,800 of these common shares, including 465,000 common shares subject to warrants issued in our 2004 note financing, 100,000 common shares subject to warrants issued to designees of the placement agent in our 2004 note financing, and 193,800 common shares subject to warrants being granted to the lead underwriters in connection with our initial public offering, and we expect to register for resale 2,663,269 of these common shares, including 1,834,862 common shares subject to conversion rights associated with our 2005 note financing, 390,000 common shares subject to warrants issued in our 2005 note financing, 138,407 common shares subject to warrants issued related to non-dilution provisions in our 2004 note financing, 300,000 common shares subject to warrants issued to designees of the placement agent in our 2005 note financing, and covering the common shares issuable under our 2004 stock option plan. Provisions of our Articles of Incorporation, Bylaws and corporate law have anti-takeover effects. Some provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws could delay or prevent a change in control of the Company, even if that change might be beneficial to our shareholders. Our restated articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that might make acquiring control of us difficult, including provisions limiting rights to call special meetings of shareholders and regulating the ability of our shareholders to nominate directors for election at annual meetings of our shareholders. In addition, our board of directors has the authority, without further approval of our shareholders, to issue preferred shares having such rights, preferences and privileges as the board of directors may determine. Any such issuance of preferred shares could, under some circumstances, have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company and might adversely affect the rights of holders of common shares. In addition, we are subject to Michigan statutes regulating business combinations, takeovers and control share acquisitions, which might also hinder or delay a change in control of the Company. Anti-takeover provisions in our restated articles of incorporation and bylaws, anti-takeover provisions that could be included in the preferred shares when issued and the Michigan statutes regulating business combinations, takeovers and control share acquisitions can depress the market price of our securities and can limit the shareholders' ability to receive a premium on their shares by discouraging takeover and tender offer bids, even if such events could be viewed as beneficial by our shareholders. Our directors serve staggered three-year terms, and directors may be removed only for cause. Our restated articles of incorporation also set the minimum number of directors constituting the entire Board at three and the maximum at fifteen, and they require approval of holders of 90% of our voting shares to amend these provisions. These provisions could have an anti-takeover effect by making it more difficult to acquire us by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise or by removing incumbent directors. These provisions could delay, deter or prevent a tender offer or takeover attempt that a shareholder might consider in his or her best interests, including those attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for the common shares held by our shareholders. See "Description of Securities." The lead underwriter of our initial public offering continue to have significant influence over us. We agreed that for a period of two years from the closing of our initial public offering in February 2005, we would allow Joseph Gunnar & Co., LLC the right to appoint a non-voting observer to our board of directors. Joseph Gunnar & Co., LLC appointed Stephan Stein, its chief operating officer, as its non-voting observer. The observer is entitled to attend all meetings of the board of directors, to receive all notices and other correspondence and communications we send to the board of directors and to receive any compensation that may be paid to our non-employee directors. We have also entered into an agreement for Joseph Gunnar & Co., LLC to provide non-exclusive investment banking services to us indefinitely, unless either party notifies the other of its intention not to renew before the expiration of the then current one-year term. These arrangements may enable Joseph Gunnar & Co., LLC to exert significant influence over us through the presence of its designee at our board meetings and through its provision of investment banking services to us. CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Some of the statements in this report are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include statements relating to our performance in the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," and "Business" sections of this report. In addition, we may make forward-looking statements in future filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in written materials, press releases and oral statements issued by us or on our behalf. Forward-looking statements include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of us or our officers, including statements preceded by, followed by or including forward-looking terminology such as "may," "will," "should," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "plan," "intend," "propose," "estimate," "continue," "predict" or similar expressions, with respect to various matters. Our actual results are likely to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements due to numerous factors, particularly those discussed in "Risk Factors." All forward-looking statements in this report are based on information available to us on the date of this report. We do not undertake to update any forward-looking statements that may be made by us or on our behalf in this report or otherwise. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 