ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks set forth below may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition to the risks set forth below and the other risks described in Item 1, Business, Forward-Looking Statements, and Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, there may also be additional risks and uncertainties that are not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. As a result, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. 12 Current Economic Conditions Present Higher Risks to Our Loan Portfolio At December 31, 2009 our loan portfolio included $329.2 million in multi-family mortgage loans, or 26.7% of total loans; $316.6 million in nonresidential real estate loans, or 25.6% of total loans; $176.8 million in commercial leases, or 14.3% of total loans; $88.1 million in commercial loans, or 7.1% of total loans; and $81.1 million in residential loans to income property investors, or 6.6% of total loans; and $32.6 million in construction and land loans, or 2.6% of total loans. Current economic conditions, including high unemployment rates, weakened consumer and business spending and materially declining real estate values, all present higher risks to our loan portfolio. Our historical loan underwriting standards presumed a reasonable range of economic and operating conditions for our borrowers and their underlying business or personal circumstances. The depth and speed of the decline in economic activity exceeded, and will continue to exceed, the financial and management capabilities of certain borrowers to meet their credit obligations. Furthermore, the decline in real estate values in all market segments not only diminishes an important source of repayment but also diminishes the borrower’s economic interest in investing additional financial resources into their businesses or residences. Though the risk of a sudden and catastrophic event in financial markets appears to have receded, weak economic growth in the U.S. and its trading partners will continue to depress the operating results of certain commercial lessees. Finally, the foregoing factors and conditions and prudent loan portfolio management will combine to reduce the overall level of acceptable credit exposures available in the market, resulting in lower loan portfolio balances and reduced interest income from the loan portfolio. If Our Allowance for Loan Losses is Not Sufficient to Cover Actual Loan Losses, Our Earnings Could Decrease In the event that our loan customers do not repay their loans according to the terms of the loans, and the collateral securing the repayment of these loans is insufficient to cover any remaining loan balance, we could experience significant loan losses or increase our provision for loan losses or both, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets, if any, serving as collateral for the repayment of our loans. At December 31, 2009, our allowance for loan losses was $18.6 million, representing 1.51% of total loans and 37.6% of nonperforming loans as of that date. In determining the amount of our allowance for loan losses, we rely on our loan quality reviews, our experience and our evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors. We also make assumptions concerning our legal positions and the priority of our interests in contested legal or bankruptcy proceedings, and at times, we may lack sufficient information to establish specific reserves for loans involved in such proceedings. Our Concentration of Loans within Certain Segments of the Healthcare Industry Exposes Us to Increased Credit Risk At December 31, 2009, we had $46.4 million of loans to healthcare providers, including loans to nursing homes and hospice care companies and leases to hospitals for equipment. These loans represented 3.8% of our total loan portfolio as of that date. Of these loans, $6.5 million, or 13.9%, were collateralized by real estate. The remainder consisted of working capital lines of credit secured by government accounts receivable, of which we are a joint payee, or by leased equipment. Loans to healthcare providers have unique credit risks. A healthcare provider’s income stream is subject to many factors beyond the control of the healthcare provider, including the risk that the provider will not be reimbursed for all services provided. The State of Illinois has experienced budget shortfalls in recent years, causing delays in state reimbursement for healthcare costs. Government reimbursement rates are also subject to change, including retroactive adjustments. For example, a significant overpayment to a healthcare provider can result in the provider owing significant governmental repayments to the federal or state government. A healthcare provider’s profitability also depends on its ability to maintain certain levels of occupancy. Unexpected declines in occupancy rates can restrict a provider’s cash flow. Any of these factors can impair the ability of our healthcare provider borrowers to make loan repayments, which could result in significant loss to us. 13 We Hold Certain Intangible Assets that Could Be Classified as Impaired in the Future. If These Assets Are Considered to Be Either Partially or Fully Impaired in the Future, Our Earnings and the Book Values of These Assets Would Decrease The Company tests its goodwill and core deposit intangible assets for impairment on a periodic basis. The impairment testing incorporates the current market price of the Company’s common shares, the estimated net present value of the Company’s assets and liabilities, and information concerning the terminal valuation of similarly-situated insured depository institutions. In addition, we evaluate the presence or absence of significant risk indicators related to the impairment of goodwill and core deposit intangible assets. Our most recent impairment testing indicated that the only significant risk factor was the fact that the Company’s market capitalization was below its book value during 2009. We concluded from our analysis that, at the time of the respective impairment testing, the market value of the Company’s net assets was sufficient to support the carrying value of its goodwill, and the fair value of its core deposit intangible exceeded their carrying value. However, because the Company’s market capitalization was below its tangible book value at December 31, 2009, and the trading prices of the common shares of similarly-situated and other financial institutions that has declined due to, among other things, current economic conditions, instability in global financial systems and markets, and a decline in merger and acquisition activity due to asset valuation difficulties and the supply of assets and liabilities that is expected to result from FDIC liquidation activities, it is possible that future impairment testing could result in a partial or full impairment of the value of the Company’s goodwill or core deposit intangible assets, or both. If the Company determines that an impairment exists at a given point in time, the Company’s earnings and the book value of the related intangible asset(s) will be reduced by the amount of the impairment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the results of impairment testing on goodwill and core deposit intangible assets will have little or no impact on the Company’s tangible book value or regulatory capital levels. Changes in Market Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations Our financial condition and results of operations are significantly affected by changes in market interest rates because our assets, primarily loans, and our liabilities, primarily deposits, are monetary in nature. Our results of operations depend substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that we earn on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense that we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities. We are unable to predict changes in market interest rates that are affected by many factors beyond our control, including inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, domestic and international events and changes in the United States and other financial markets. Our net interest income is affected not only by the level and direction of interest rates, but also by the shape of the yield curve and relationships between interest sensitive instruments and key driver rates, including credit risk spreads, and by balance sheet growth, customer loan and deposit preferences and the timing of changes in these variables which themselves are impacted by changes in market interest rates. As a result, changes in market interest rates can significantly impact our net interest income as well as the fair market valuation of our assets and liabilities. Since Our Business is Concentrated in the Chicago Metropolitan Area, Local Economic Conditions May Adversely Affect Our Business Although we make certain types of loans and leases to borrowers located in other states, our lending and deposit gathering activities are concentrated primarily in the Chicago metropolitan area. Our success depends on the general economic conditions of this area and surrounding areas. In addition, many of the loans in our loan portfolio are secured by real estate located in the Chicago metropolitan area. Negative conditions in the real estate markets where collateral for a mortgage loan is located could adversely affect the borrower’s ability to repay the loan and the value of the collateral securing the loan. Real estate values are affected by various other factors, including real estate supply and demand, changes in general or regional economic conditions and unemployment rates, interest rates, governmental rules or policies and natural disasters. Adverse changes in the regional and general economy could also reduce our growth rate, impair our ability to collect loans and generally have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Difficult Economic Conditions Have Adversely Affected the Banking Industry The capital, credit and financial markets have experienced significant volatility and disruption in recent years. These conditions have had significant adverse effects on our national and local economies, including declining real estate values, a widespread tightening of the availability of credit, illiquidity in certain securities markets, increasing loan delinquencies, mortgage foreclosures, personal and business bankruptcies, rising unemployment rates, declining consumer confidence and spending, significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions and government-sponsored entities, and a reduction of manufacturing and service business activity and international trade. These conditions have also adversely affected the stock market generally, and have contributed to significant declines in the trading prices of financial institution stocks that have not fully recovered. We do not expect these difficult market conditions to improve over the short term, and a continuation or worsening of these conditions could exacerbate their adverse effects. The adverse effects of these conditions could include increases in loan delinquencies and charge-offs, increases to the portion of our loan loss reserve that we base on national and local economic factors, increases to our specific loan loss reserves due to the impact of these conditions on specific borrowers or the collateral for their loans, declines in the value of our investment securities, increases in our cost of funds due to continued aggressive deposit pricing by local and national competitors with liquidity needs, increases in regulatory and compliance costs, core deposit attrition due to this aggressive deposit pricing and/or consumer concerns about the safety of their deposits, and declines in the trading price of our common stock. 14 If Our Investment in the Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago is Classified as Other-Than-Temporarily Impaired, Our Earnings Could Decrease We own FHLBC common stock to qualify for membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank System and to be eligible to borrow funds under the FHLBC’s advance program. The aggregate cost of our FHLBC common stock as of December 31, 2009 was $15.6 million based on its par value. There is no market for our FHLBC common stock. Due to our receipt of stock dividends and a reduction of our outstanding FHLBC advances, we owned shares of FHLBC common stock at December 31, 2009 with a par value that was $8.9 million more than we were required to own to maintain our membership, in the Federal Home Loan Bank System and to be eligible to obtain advances (“excess” or “voluntary” capital stock). On October 10, 2007, the FHLBC entered into a consensual cease and desist order with the Federal Housing Finance Board, now known as the Federal Housing Finance Agency (“the FHFA”). Under the terms of the order, and subject to certain exceptions that are not applicable to the FHLBC common stock that we own, capital stock repurchases and redemptions, including redemptions upon membership withdrawal or other termination, are prohibited unless the FHLBC receives the prior approval of the Director of the Office of Supervision of the FHFA (the “Director”). The order also provides that dividend declarations are subject to the prior written approval of the Director and required the FHLBC to submit a Capital Structure Plan to the FHFA. The FHLBC has not declared any dividends since the order was issued and it has not received formal approval of a Capital Structure Plan. Published reports indicate that certain member banks of the Federal Home Loan Bank System could have materially lower regulatory capital levels due to asset quality issues. In an extreme situation, it is possible that the capitalization of a Federal Home Loan Bank, including the FHLBC, could be substantially diminished or reduced to zero. Current accounting guidance for our FHLBC common stock provides that, for impairment testing purposes, the value of long-term investments such as our FHLBC common stock is based on the “ultimate recoverability” of the par value of the security without regard to temporary declines in value. Consequently, if events occur that give rise to substantial doubt about the ultimate recoverability of the par value of our FHLBC common stock, this investment could be deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired, and the impairment loss that we would be required to record would cause our earnings to decrease by the after-tax amount of the impairment loss. Our Future Success is Dependent on Our Ability to Compete Effectively in the Highly Competitive Banking Industry We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors. Our future growth and success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive environment. To date, we have grown our business successfully by focusing on our geographic markets and emphasizing the high level of service and responsiveness desired by our customers. We compete for loans, deposits and other financial services with other commercial banks, thrifts, credit unions, brokerage houses, mutual funds, insurance companies, real estate conduits, and specialized finance companies. Many of our competitors offer products and services that we do not offer, and many have substantially greater resources and lending limits, name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do, and smaller newer competitors may also be more aggressive in pricing loans and deposits in order to increase their market share. Some of the financial institutions and financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the extensive regulations imposed on savings banks and their holding companies. As a result, these nonbank competitors have certain advantages over us in accessing funding and in providing various financial services. 15 Our Business May Be Adversely Affected by the Highly Regulated Environment in Which We Operate We are subject to extensive federal and state legislation, regulation, examination and supervision. Recently enacted, proposed and future legislation and regulations could have an adverse effect on our business and operations. Our success depends on our continued ability to comply with these laws and regulations. Some of these regulations may increase our costs. While we cannot predict what effect any future changes in these laws or regulations or their interpretations would have on us, these changes or interpretations may adversely affect our future operations. Trading Activity in the Company’s Common Stock Could Result in Material Price Fluctuations It is possible that trading activity in the Company’s common stock, including short-selling or significant sales by current stockholders, could result in material price fluctuations of the price per share of the Company’s common stock. In addition, such trading activity and the resultant volatility could make it more difficult for the Company to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price it deems appropriate, or to use its stock as consideration for an acquisition. See “Our Ability to Successfully Conduct Acquisitions Will Affect Our Ability to Grow Our Franchise and Compete Effectively in Our Marketplace”. Our Return on Stockholders’ Equity Will Continue to Be Low Due to Our High Capital Level Net income divided by average stockholders’ equity, known as return on equity, is a ratio that many investors use to compare the performance of a financial institution to its peers. Our capital remains relatively high by industry standards pending a more optimal deployment of the additional capital raised in our 2005 mutual-to-stock conversion. Until we can increase our net interest income and noninterest income, we expect our return on equity to continue to be below the historical industry average, which may negatively affect the value of our shares of common stock. The Bank’s Ability to Pay Dividends is Subject to Regulatory Limitations Which, to the Extent the Company Requires Such Dividends in the Future, May Affect the Company’s Ability to Pay Dividends The Company is a separate legal entity from its subsidiaries and does not have significant operations of its own. Dividends from the Bank provide a significant source of cash for the Company. The availability of dividends from the Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. Under the rules of the OTS, the Bank is not permitted to pay dividends on its capital stock to the Company, its sole stockholder, if the dividend would reduce the Bank’s stockholder’s equity below the amount of the liquidation account established in connection with the mutual-to-stock conversion. The Bank may pay dividends without the approval of the OTS only if the Bank meets its applicable regulatory capital requirements before and after the payment of the dividends and its total dividends do not exceed its net income to date over the calendar year plus retained net income over the preceding two years. As of December 31, 2009, the Bank had no net income available to pay a dividend to the Company without the prior approval of the OTS. It is possible, depending upon the financial condition of the Bank and other factors, that the OTS could assert that the payment of dividends or other payments by the Bank are an unsafe or unsound practice or refuse to issue any required prior approvals. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to the Company, the Company may not be able to pay dividends on its common stock. Consequently, the potential inability to receive dividends from the Bank could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We Continually Encounter Technological Change, and May Have Fewer Resources Than Many of Our Competitors to Continue to Invest in Technological Improvements The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. 16 Our Ability to Successfully Conduct Acquisitions Will Affect Our Ability to Grow Our Franchise and Compete Effectively in Our Marketplace We consider the possible acquisition of other banks, thrifts and other financial services companies in private or FDIC-assisted transactions to supplement internal growth. Our efforts to acquire other financial institutions and financial service companies may not be successful. Other potential acquirors exist for most acquisition candidates, creating competition that can affect the purchase price for which the institution can be acquired. In many cases, our competitors have significantly greater resources than we have, and greater flexibility to structure the consideration for the transaction. We may not participate in specific acquisition opportunities if we consider the proposed transaction unacceptable, including the current or potential future terms, conditions and limitations imposed by an FDIC-assisted transaction. We also may not be the successful bidder in acquisition opportunities that we pursue due to the willingness or ability of other potential acquirors to propose a higher purchase price or more attractive terms and conditions than we are willing or able to propose. The results of a merger or acquisition could change materially based on future changes in applicable accounting principles and regulatory requirements related to acquired assets and liabilities. If we are unable to or do not conduct acquisitions to supplement internal growth, our ability to deploy effectively the capital we raised in the offering, expand our geographic presence and improve our results of operations could be adversely affected. The Risks Presented by the Acquisition of Other Institutions Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations If we are successful in conducting acquisitions, we will be presented with many risks that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. An institution that we acquire may have unknown asset quality issues or unknown or contingent liabilities that we did not discover or fully recognize in the due diligence process, thereby resulting in unanticipated losses, particularly in the case of FDIC-assisted transactions due to the highly restrictive due diligence available to potential bidders. The acquisition of other institutions typically requires the integration of different corporate cultures, loan and deposit products, pricing strategies, data processing systems and other technologies, accounting, internal audit and financial reporting systems, operational processes, policies, procedures and internal controls, marketing programs and personnel of the acquired institution in order to make the transaction economically advantageous. The integration process is complicated and time consuming, and could divert our attention from other business concerns and be disruptive to our customers and the customers of the acquired institution. Our failure to successfully integrate an acquired institution could result in the loss of key customers and employees, and prevent us from achieving expected synergies and cost savings. Acquisitions also result in professional fees, purchase price adjustments, the amortization of core deposit intangibles and other expenses that could adversely affect our earnings, and in goodwill that could become impaired, requiring us to recognize further charges. We may finance acquisitions with borrowed funds, thereby increasing our leverage and reducing our liquidity, or with potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities. FDIC Deposit Insurance Premiums Have Increased and May Increase Further in the Future The Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended, requires the FDIC to maintain a reserve ratio between 1.15% and 1.50%. The FDIC’s board of directors must establish a designated reserve ratio within that range and sets assessment rates to meet that target within a time-frame that the board deems appropriate. If the reserve ratio falls below 1.15%, the FDIC’s board is required to establish a restoration plan to bring the reserve ratio back to 1.15% within five years. The FDIC’s reserve ratio declined over the past several years due to costs associated with bank failures and FDIC-assisted transactions, and the reserve ratio is expected to remain under duress due to future bank failures and FDIC-assisted transactions. As part of a plan to restore the reserve ratio to 1.15%, the FDIC imposed a special assessment equal to five basis points of assets less Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009, which was payable on September 30, 2009. In addition, the FDIC increased its quarterly assessment rates and amended the method by which rates are calculated. On November 12, 2009, the FDIC approved a final rule requiring insured depository institutions to prepay on December 30, 2009, their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009, and for all of 2010, 2011, and 2012. Prepaid assessments are to be applied against the actual quarterly assessments until exhausted, and may not be applied to any special assessments that may occur in the future. Any unused prepayments will be returned to the institution on June 30, 2013. See “Supervision and Regulation – Insurance of Deposit Accounts.” On December 30, 2009, the Bank paid the estimated assessment fees for the fourth quarter of 2009 and prepaid $6.8 million in estimated assessment fees through 2012. These increased assessments have had an adverse impact on our results of operations in 2009 and will continue to have an adverse impact in future years. If circumstances require the FDIC to impose additional special assessments or further increase its quarterly assessment rates, the adverse impact will be exacerbated. 17 Various Factors May Make Takeover Attempts That You Want to Succeed More Difficult to Achieve, Which May Affect the Value of Shares of Our Common Stock Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws, federal regulations, Maryland law and various other factors may make it more difficult for companies or persons to acquire control of the Company without the consent of our board of directors. You may want a takeover attempt to succeed because, for example, a potential acquiror could offer a premium over the then prevailing price of our shares of common stock. The OTS regulations prohibit the direct or indirect acquisition of more than 10% of any class of equity security of a converted savings institution without the prior approval of the OTS. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws also may make it difficult to remove our current board of directors or management if our board of directors opposes the removal. We have elected to be subject to the Maryland Business Combination Act, which places restrictions on mergers and other business combinations with large stockholders. In addition, our articles of incorporation provide that certain mergers and other similar transactions, as well as amendments to our articles of incorporation, must be approved by stockholders owning at least two-thirds of our shares of common stock entitled to vote on the matter unless first approved by at least two-thirds of the number of our authorized directors, assuming no vacancies. If approved by at least two-thirds of the number of our authorized directors, assuming no vacancies, the action must still be approved by a majority of our shares entitled to vote on the matter. In addition, a director can be removed from office, but only for cause, if such removal is approved by stockholders owning at least two-thirds of our shares of common stock entitled to vote on the matter. However, if at least two-thirds of the number of our authorized directors, assuming no vacancies, approves the removal of a director, the removal may be with or without cause, but must still be approved by a majority of our voting shares entitled to vote on the matter. Additional provisions include limitations on the voting rights of any beneficial owners of more than 10% of our common stock. Our bylaws, which can only be amended by the board of directors, also contain provisions regarding the timing, content and procedural requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations. Non-Compliance with USA PATRIOT Act, Bank Secrecy Act, Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, Truth-in-Lending Act or Other Laws and Regulations Could Result in Fines or Sanctions, and Curtail Expansion Opportunities Financial institutions are required under the USA PATRIOT and Bank Secrecy Acts to develop programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money-laundering and terrorist activities. Financial institutions are also obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Financial Crimes Enforcement Network if such activities are detected. These rules also require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts. Failure or the inability to comply with these regulations could result in fines or penalties, curtailment of expansion opportunities, intervention or sanctions by regulators and costly litigation or expensive additional controls and systems. During the last few years, several banking institutions have received large fines for non-compliance with these laws and regulations. In addition, the U.S. Government imposed and will continue to expand laws and regulations relating to residential and consumer lending activities that create significant new compliance burdens and financial risks. We have developed policies and continue to augment procedures and systems designed to assist in compliance with these laws and regulations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 18 