Item 1A. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS Readers and prospective investors in our securities should carefully consider the following risk factors as well as the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair our business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of the Company’s securities could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. General Business Risks Continued or worsening general economic or business conditions, particularly in California where our business is concentrated, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operations, loans and the collateral securing our loan portfolio are concentrated in the State of California. Our success depends upon the business activity, population, income levels, deposits and real estate activity in this market. As a result, we may be particularly susceptible to the adverse economic conditions in California, and the San Bay Area of Northern California in particular. Since late 2007, the United States and the State of California in particular have experienced difficult economic conditions. Weak economic conditions are characterized by, among other indicators, deflation, increased levels of unemployment, fluctuations in debt and equity capital markets, increased delinquencies on mortgage, commercial and consumer loans, residential and commercial real estate price declines and lower home sales and commercial activity. All of those factors are generally detrimental to our business. In addition, our ability to assess the creditworthiness of customers and to estimate the losses inherent in our credit exposure is made more complex by these difficult market and economic conditions. Adverse economic conditions could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. While some economic trends have shown signs of improving in recent months, we cannot be certain that market and economic conditions will substantially improve in the near future. Recent and ongoing events at the state, national and international levels continue to create uncertainty in the economy and financial markets and could adversely impact economic conditions in our market area. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of the recent market and economic conditions on us and our customers. As a result, we may experience additional increases in foreclosures, delinquencies and customer bankruptcies as well as more restricted access to funds. Any such negative events may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. Moreover, because of our geographic concentration, we are less able to diversify our credit risks across multiple markets to the same extent as regional or national financial institutions. Poor economic conditions in the Northern California real estate market may cause us to suffer higher default rates on our loans and decreased value of the assets we hold as collateral. The majority of our assets and deposits were generated in Northern California. At December 31, 2012, approximately 30% of our loan portfolio was secured by real property in Northern California. During 2012, the real estate market in Northern California showed signs of stabilization and some improvement, as evidenced by increasing prices and increased transaction volume, and decreased foreclosure rates. These improvements follow an extended period of deterioration and there is no certainty that improvements will continue, or that we not might return to further deterioration in the real estate market. Further deterioration may result in an increase in the level of our nonperforming loans, particularly commercial real estate loans. When real estate prices decline, the value of real estate collateral securing our loans is reduced. As a result, we may experience greater charge-offs and, similarly, our ability to recover on defaulted loans by foreclosing and selling the real estate collateral may be diminished and, as a result, we are more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. If this real estate trend in our market areas continues or worsens, the result could be reduced income, increased expenses, and less cash available for lending and other activities, which could 15 have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may suffer losses in our loan portfolio despite strict adherence to underwriting practices. We attempt to mitigate the risks inherent in extending credit by adhering to specific underwriting practices, managed by credit professionals. Although we believe that our underwriting criteria is appropriate for the various kinds of loans we fund, we may incur losses on loans that meet our underwriting criteria, and these losses may exceed the amounts set aside as reserves in the Bank’s allowance for loan losses. If our underwriting practices prove to be ineffective, we may incur losses in our loan portfolio, which could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Bank regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review our loans and allowance for loan losses. While we believe that our allowance for loan losses is currently adequate to cover potential losses, we cannot guarantee that future increases to the allowance for loan losses may not be required by regulators or other third party loan review or financial audits. Any of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel may materially and adversely affect our prospects. Competition for qualified employees in the banking industry is intense, and there are limited numbers of qualified persons with knowledge of, and experience in, the California community banking industry. The process of recruiting personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out our strategies is often lengthy. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, loan origination, finance, administrative, marketing and business development and technical personnel, and upon the continued contributions of our management and personnel. If we fail to attract and retain the necessary personnel, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We face limits on our ability to lend and the limitation may increase. Our legal lending limit as of December 31, 2012 was approximately $22.6 million. Accordingly, the size of the loans which we can offer to potential customers is less than the size of loans which many of our competitors with larger lending limits can offer. Our lending limit affects our ability to seek relationships with the area’s larger and more established businesses. We cannot be assured of any success in attracting or retaining customers seeking larger loans or that we can engage in participations of those loans on terms favorable to us. Moreover, to the extent that we incur losses and do not obtain additional capital, our lending limit, which depends upon the amount of our capital, will decrease, which could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Market and Interest Rate Risks Changes in interest rates could reduce income and cash flow The Company’s income and cash flow depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest earned on loans and investment securities, and the interest paid on deposits and other borrowings (the “interest rate spread”). We cannot control or prevent changes in the level of interest rates. They fluctuate in response to general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the FRB. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits and other liabilities. See “Item 7a Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” is incorporated by reference in this paragraph. Recent decreases in market interest rates have caused the Company’s interest rate spread to decline significantly, which reduces revenue and net income. Sustained low levels of market interest rates will likely continue to put pressure on our profitability. Any material reduction in interest rate spread could have a material adverse effect on our business, profitability and financial position. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, capital offerings and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities, or on terms attractive to us, could be impaired by factors that impact us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources 16 include a reduction in the level of business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulatory action against us, or a decrease in depositor or investor confidence in us. Further, as a business bank, a significant portion of our deposits are raised from companies in amounts that exceed levels covered by FDIC insurance. In addition, our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as the severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole as the recent turmoil faced by banking in the domestic and worldwide credit markets deteriorates. Risks Related to the nature and geographical location of Bridge Capital Holdings’ business Bridge Capital Holdings’ invests in loans that contain inherent credit risks that may cause us to incur losses In our business as a lender, we face the risk that borrowers may fail to pay their loans when due. If borrower defaults cause large aggregate losses, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, profitability and financial condition. We closely monitor the markets in which we conduct our lending operations and attempt to adjust our strategy to control exposure to loans with higher credit risk. Asset reviews are performed using grading standards and criteria similar to those employed by bank regulatory agencies. We have established an evaluation process designed to determine the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses. While this process uses historical and other objective information, the classification of loans and the forecasts and establishment of loan losses are dependent to a great extent on our subjective assessment based upon our experience and judgment. During 2008 and 2009, the rapid deterioration of real estate values prompted us to take substantial charges and provisions to the allowance for loan losses. We can provide no assurance that the credit quality of our loans will not deteriorate in the future and that such deterioration will not adversely affect the Company and that our allowance for loan losses will be adequate to absorb actual losses in the future. Bridge Capital Holdings’ operations are concentrated geographically in California, and poor economic conditions in California may cause us to incur losses. Substantially all of Bridge Capital Holdings’ business is located in California. Bridge Capital Holdings’ financial condition and operating results will be subject to changes in economic conditions in California. A significant and prolonged downturn in the California economy could adversely affect financial institutions doing business in California, such as the Company. Economic conditions in California are subject to various uncertainties at this time, including the decline in the technology sector, the California state government’s budgetary difficulties and continuing fiscal difficulties. The Company will be subject to changes in economic conditions. We can provide no assurance that conditions in the California economy will not deteriorate in the future and that such deterioration will not adversely affect Bridge Capital Holdings. The markets in which Bridge Capital Holdings operates are subject to the risk of earthquakes and other natural disasters Most of the properties of Bridge Capital Holdings are located in California. Also, most of the real and personal properties which currently secure the Company’s loans are located in California. California is a state which is prone to earthquakes, brush fires, flooding and other natural disasters. In addition to possibly sustaining damage to its own properties, if there is a major earthquake, flood or other natural disaster, Bridge Capital Holdings faces the risk that many of its borrowers may experience uninsured property losses, or sustained job interruption and/or loss which may materially impair their ability to meet the terms of their loan obligations. A major earthquake, flood or other natural disaster in California could have a material adverse effect on Bridge Capital Holdings’ business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Substantial competition in the California banking market could adversely affect us Banking is a highly competitive business. We compete actively for loan, deposit, and other financial services business primarily in California. Our competitors include a large number of state and national banks, thrift institutions and credit unions, as well as many financial and non-financial firms that offer services similar to those offered by us. Other competitors include large financial institutions that have substantial capital, technology and marketing resources. Such large financial institutions may have greater access to capital at a lower cost than us, which may adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. 17 Regulatory Risks Restrictions on dividends and other distributions could limit amounts payable to us Various statutory provisions restrict the amount of dividends our subsidiaries can pay to us without regulatory approval. In addition, if any subsidiary of ours were to liquidate, that subsidiary’s creditors will be entitled to receive distributions from the assets of that subsidiary to satisfy their claims against it before we, as a holder of an equity interest in the subsidiary, will be entitled to receive any of the assets of the subsidiary. Adverse effects of, or changes in, banking or other laws and regulations or governmental fiscal or monetary policies could adversely affect us We are subject to significant federal and state regulation and supervision, which is primarily for the benefit and protection of our customers and not for the benefit of investors. In the past, our business has been materially affected by these regulations. This trend is likely to continue in the future. Laws, regulations or policies, including accounting standards and interpretations currently affecting us and our subsidiaries, may change at any time. Regulatory authorities may also change their interpretation of these statutes and regulations. During periods of economic stress, regulatory oversight can be expected to increase and regulatory agencies become more aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations. Such a regulatory response may effect, among other things, growth rates, business mix, capital levels and payment of dividends Therefore, our business may be adversely affected by any future changes in laws, regulations, policies or interpretations or regulatory approaches to compliance and enforcement, including legislative and regulatory reactions to the current credit crisis, the terrorist attack on September 11, 2001 and future acts of terrorism, and major U.S. corporate bankruptcies and reports of accounting irregularities at U.S. public companies. As noted above, on October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the EESA, which evolved from the U.S. Treasury’s initial proposal in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. This was followed by the ARRA on February 17, 2009 and the Dodd-Frank Act on July 21, 2010. Each of these laws mandate significantly increased supervisory activities and many new studies and regulations. We can give no assurance as to what form additional regulations, particularly those required by the Dodd-Frank Act, might take or whether and when they could become effective. Additionally, our business is affected significantly by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. We are particularly affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve Board, which regulates the supply of money and credit in the U.S. Under long-standing policy of the Federal Reserve Board and the Dodd-Frank Act, a bank holding company is required to act as a source of financial strength for its subsidiary banks. As a result of that requirement, we may be required to commit financial and other resources to our subsidiary bank in circumstances where we might not otherwise do so. Among the instruments of monetary policy available to the Federal Reserve Board are (a) conducting open market operations in U.S. government securities, (b) changing the discount rates of borrowings by depository institutions, and (c) imposing or changing reserve requirements against certain borrowings by banks and their affiliates. These methods are used in varying degrees and combinations to directly affect the availability of bank loans and deposits, as well as the interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits. The policies of the Federal Reserve Board may have a material effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. See “Supervision and Regulation — Legislation and Proposed Changes” for additional discussion regarding adverse effects of, or changes in, banking or other laws and regulations and governmental fiscal or monetary policies. Systems, Accounting and Internal Control Risks The accuracy of the Company’s judgments and estimates about financial and accounting matters will impact operating results and financial condition The Company makes certain estimates and judgments in preparing its financial statements. The quality and accuracy of those estimates and judgments will have an impact on the Company’s operating results and financial condition. See “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in this report and the information referred to in that discussion. The Company’s information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Company’s customer relationship management and systems. There can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security 18 breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately corrected by the Company. The occurrence of any such failures, interruptions or security breaches could damage the Company’s reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose the Company to litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented Management regularly reviews and updates the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls and procedures, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the Company’s controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 