Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, you should consider the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations in the future. The following factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ from those projected in any forward looking statements we make. Certain of our customers are significant to our revenues, and we could be adversely affected by changes in the business or financial condition of these significant customers or by the loss of their business. Our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 51%, 50% and 48% of our total “Net sales” for the year ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, with Rexam Plc, a leading global beverage can maker, and its affiliates representing approximately 14%, 15% and 16% of our total “Net sales” in the respective periods. A significant downturn in the business or financial condition of our significant customers could materially adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. In addition, if our existing relationships with significant customers materially deteriorate or are terminated in the future, and we are not successful in replacing business lost from such customers, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. Some of the longer term contracts under which we supply our customers, including under umbrella agreements such as those described under “Business — Our Customers,” are subject to renewal, renegotiation or re-pricing at periodic intervals or upon changes in competitive supply conditions. Our failure to successfully renew, renegotiate or re-price such agreements could result in a reduction or loss in customer purchase volume or revenue, and if we are not successful in replacing business lost from such customers, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. The markets in which we operate are competitive and customers may seek to consolidate supplier relationships or change suppliers to obtain cost savings and other benefits. Our results and short term liquidity can be negatively impacted by timing differences between the prices we pay under purchase contracts and metal prices we charge our customers. Most of our purchase and sales contracts are based on the LME aluminum price for high grade aluminum, and there are typically timing differences between the pricing periods for purchases and sales where purchase prices tend to be fixed and paid earlier than sales prices. This creates a price exposure that we call “metal price lag.” To mitigate this exposure, we sell short-term LME aluminum futures contracts to protect the value of priced metal purchases and inventory until the sale price is established. We settle these derivative contracts in advance of collecting from our customers, which both positively and negatively impacts our short-term liquidity position. In addition, from time to time, customers request fixed prices for longer term sales commitments, and we in turn enter into futures purchase contracts to hedge against these fixed forward priced sales to customers. The mismatch between the settlement of these derivative contracts and customer collection from shipments hedged with these derivative contracts also leads to volatility in our short-term liquidity position, either positively or negatively. The lag between the derivative settlement and customer collection typically ranges from 30 to 60 days. Our operations consume energy and our profitability and cash flows may decline if energy costs were to rise, or if our energy supplies were interrupted. We consume substantial amounts of energy in our rolling, casting and smelter operations. The factors that affect our energy costs and supply reliability tend to be specific to each of our facilities. A number of factors could materially adversely affect our energy position including: • increases in costs of natural gas; 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • significant increases in costs of supplied electricity or fuel oil related to transportation; • interruptions in energy supply due to equipment failure or other causes; • the inability to extend energy supply contracts upon expiration on economical terms; and • the inability to pass through energy costs in certain sales contracts. In addition, global climate change may increase our costs for energy sources, supplies or raw materials. See We may be affected by global climate change or by legal, regulatory or market responses to such change. If energy costs were to rise, or if energy supplies or supply arrangements were disrupted, our profitability and cash flows could decline. A deterioration of our financial position or a downgrade of our ratings by a credit rating agency could increase our borrowing costs and our business relationships could be adversely affected. A deterioration of our financial position or a downgrade of our ratings for any reason could increase our borrowing costs and have an adverse effect on our business relationships with customers, suppliers and hedging counterparties. From time to time, we enter into various forms of hedging activities against currency, interest rate or metal price fluctuations and trade metal contracts on the LME. Financial strength and credit ratings are important to the availability and pricing of these hedging and trading activities. As a result, any downgrade of our credit ratings may make it more costly for us to engage in these activities, and changes to our level of indebtedness may make it more difficult or costly for us to engage in these activities in the future. Adverse changes in currency exchange rates could negatively affect our financial results or cash flows and the competitiveness of our aluminum rolled products relative to other materials. Our businesses and operations are exposed to the effects of changes in the exchange rates of the U.S. dollar, the euro, the British pound, the Brazilian real, the Canadian dollar, the Korean won and other currencies. We have implemented a hedging policy that attempts to manage currency exchange rate risks to an acceptable level based on management’s judgment of the appropriate trade-off between risk, opportunity and cost; however, this hedging policy may not successfully or completely eliminate the effects of currency exchange rate fluctuations which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and cash flows. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in U.S. dollars, but a portion of our earnings and expenditures are denominated in other currencies, primarily the euro, the Korean won and the Brazilian real. Changes in exchange rates will result in increases or decreases in our operating results and may also affect the book value of our assets located outside the U.S. Most of our facilities are staffed by a unionized workforce, and union disputes and other employee relations issues could materially adversely affect our financial results. Approximately 58% of our employees are represented by labor unions under a large number of collective bargaining agreements with varying durations and expiration dates. We may not be able to satisfactorily renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements when they expire. In addition, existing collective bargaining agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage at our facilities in the future. We could be adversely affected by disruptions of our operations. Breakdown of equipment or other events, including catastrophic events such as war or natural disasters, leading to production interruptions at our plants could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and cash flows. Further, because many of our customers are, to varying degrees, dependent on planned deliveries from our plants, those customers that have to reschedule their own production due to our missed deliveries could pursue claims against us and reduce their future business with us. We may incur costs to correct any of these problems, in addition to facing claims from customers. Further, our reputation among actual and potential customers may be harmed, resulting in a loss of business. While we maintain insurance policies covering, among other things, physical damage, business interruptions and product liability, these policies would not cover all of our losses. 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our operations have been and will continue to be exposed to various business and other risks, changes in conditions and events beyond our control in countries where we have operations or sell products. We are, and will continue to be, subject to financial, political, economic and business risks in connection with our global operations. We have made investments and carry on production activities in various emerging markets, including Brazil, Korea and Malaysia, and we market our products in these countries, as well as China and certain other countries in Asia, the Middle East and emerging markets in South America. While we anticipate higher growth or attractive production opportunities from these emerging markets, they also present a higher degree of risk than more developed markets. In addition to the business risks inherent in developing and servicing new markets, economic conditions may be more volatile, legal and regulatory systems less developed and predictable, and the possibility of various types of adverse governmental action more pronounced. In addition, inflation, fluctuations in currency and interest rates, competitive factors, civil unrest and labor problems could affect our revenues, expenses and results of operations. Our operations could also be adversely affected by acts of war, terrorism or the threat of any of these events as well as government actions such as controls on imports, exports and prices, tariffs, new forms of taxation, or changes in fiscal regimes and increased government regulation in the countries in which we operate or service customers. Unexpected or uncontrollable events or circumstances in any of these markets could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and cash flows. Economic conditions could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our financial condition and results of operations depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions. Uncertainty about current or future global economic conditions poses a risk as our customers may postpone purchases in response to tighter credit and negative financial news, which could adversely impact demand for our products. In addition, there can be no assurance that the actions we have taken or may take in response to the economic conditions will be sufficient to counter any continuation or reoccurrence of the downturn or disruptions. A significant global economic downturn or disruptions in the financial markets could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity could be adversely affected if we were unable to purchase derivative instruments or if counterparties to our derivative instruments fail to honor their agreements. We use various derivative instruments to manage the risks arising from fluctuations in aluminum prices, exchange rates, energy prices and interest rates. If for any reason we were unable to purchase derivative instruments to manage these risks or were unsuccessful in passing through the costs of our risk management activities, our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity could be adversely affected. In addition, we may be exposed to losses in the future if the counterparties to our derivative instruments fail to honor their agreements. In particular, deterioration in the financial condition of our counterparties and any resulting failure to pay amounts owed to us or to perform obligations or services owed to us could have a negative effect on our business and financial condition. Further, if major financial institutions continue to consolidate and are forced to operate under more restrictive capital constraints and regulations, there could be less liquidity in the derivative markets, which could have a negative effect on our ability to hedge and transact with creditworthy counterparties. New derivatives legislation could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business and on the cost of our hedging activities. We use over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives products to hedge our metal commodity risks and our interest rate and currency risks. Recent legislation has been adopted to increase the regulatory oversight of the OTC derivatives markets and impose restrictions on certain derivative transactions, which could affect the use of derivatives in hedging transactions. Final regulations pursuant to this legislation defining which companies will be subject to the legislation have not yet been adopted. If future regulations subject us to additional capital or margin requirements or other restrictions on our trading and commodity positions, they could have an adverse effect on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business and on the cost of our hedging activities. Our goodwill and other intangible assets could become impaired, which could require us to take non-cash charges against earnings. We assess, at least annually and potentially more frequently, whether the value of our goodwill has been impaired. We assess the recoverability of finite-lived other intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that we may not be able to recover the asset’s carrying amount. Any impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets as a result of such analysis would result in a non-cash charge against earnings, which charge could materially adversely affect our reported results of operations. 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements A significant and sustained decline in our future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the economic environment or slower growth rates could result in the need to perform additional impairment analysis in future periods. If we were to conclude that a write-down of goodwill or other intangible assets is necessary, then we would record such additional charges, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. As part of our ongoing evaluation of our operations, we may undertake additional restructuring efforts in the future which could in some instances result in significant severance-related costs, environmental remediation expenses and impairment and other restructuring charges. We recorded “Restructuring charges, net” of $60 million and $34 million for the year ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and $111 million “Loss on assets held for sale” for the year ended March 31, 2012. During these periods, we announced, among others, the following restructuring actions and programs: • the restructuring of our lithographic sheet European business, which resulted in closing one line in our Göttingen, Germany plant in March 2012; • the shutdown of our Saguenay Works plant in Quebec, Canada, decision made in March 2012 with an effective closing date in August 2012; • the announced sale of three of our European foil operations in Rugles, France; Dudelange, Luxembourg; and Berlin, Germany, with an expected closing date of mid calendar year 2012; • the cessation of foil rolling activities and part of the packaging business at our facility located in Bridgnorth, U.K. in fiscal 2012; and • the shutdown of our Aratu facility located in Candeias, Brazil in fiscal 2011. We may take additional restructuring actions in the future. Any additional restructuring efforts could result in significant severance-related costs, environmental remediation expenses, impairment charges, restructuring charges and related costs and expenses, which could adversely affect our profitability and cash flows. We may not be able to successfully develop and implement new technology initiatives in a timely manner. We have invested in, and are involved with, a number of technology and process initiatives. Several technical aspects of these initiatives are still unproven, and the eventual commercial outcomes cannot be assessed with any certainty. Even if we are successful with these initiatives, we may not be able to deploy them in a timely fashion. Accordingly, the costs and benefits from our investments in new technologies and the consequent effects on our financial results may vary from present expectations. Loss of our key management and other personnel, or an inability to attract such management and other personnel, could adversely impact our business. We depend on our senior executive officers and other key personnel to run our business. The loss of any of these officers or other key personnel could materially adversely affect our operations. Competition for qualified employees among companies that rely heavily on engineering and technology is intense, and the loss of qualified employees or an inability to attract, retain and motivate additional highly skilled employees required for the operation and expansion of our business could hinder our ability to improve manufacturing operations, conduct research activities successfully and develop marketable products. Future acquisitions or divestitures may adversely affect our financial condition. As part of our strategy for growth, we may pursue acquisitions, divestitures or strategic alliances, which may not be completed or, if completed, may not be ultimately beneficial to us. There are numerous risks commonly encountered in strategic transactions, including the risk that we may not be able to complete a transaction that has been announced, effectively integrate businesses acquired or generate the cost savings and synergies anticipated. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Capital investments in organic growth initiatives may not produce the returns we anticipate. A significant element of our strategy is to invest in opportunities to increase the production capacity of our operating facilities through modifications of and investments in existing facilities and equipment and to evaluate other investments in organic growth in our target markets. These projects involve numerous risks and uncertainties, including the risk that actual capital investment requirements exceed projected levels, that our forecasted demand levels prove to be inaccurate, that we do not realize the production increases or other benefits anticipated, that we experience scheduling delays in connection with the commencement or completion of the project, that the project disrupts existing plant operations causing us to temporarily lose a portion of our available production capacity, or that key management devotes significant time and energy focused on one or more initiatives that divert attention from other business activities. We could be required to make unexpected contributions to our defined benefit pension plans as a result of adverse changes in interest rates and the capital markets. Most of our pension obligations relate to funded defined benefit pension plans for our employees in the U.S., the U.K. and Canada, unfunded pension benefits in Germany and lump sum indemnities payable to our employees in France, Italy, Korea and Malaysia upon retirement or termination. Our pension plan assets consist primarily of funds invested in listed stocks and bonds. Our estimates of liabilities and expenses for pensions and other postretirement benefits incorporate a number of assumptions, including expected long-term rates of return on plan assets and interest rates used to discount future benefits. Our results of operations, liquidity or shareholder’s equity in a particular period could be adversely affected by capital market returns that are less than their assumed long-term rate of return or a decline of the rate used to discount future benefits. If the assets of our pension plans do not achieve assumed investment returns for any period, such deficiency could result in one or more charges against our earnings for that period. In addition, changing economic conditions, poor pension investment returns or other factors may require us to make unexpected cash contributions to the pension plans in the future, preventing the use of such cash for other purposes. We face risks relating to certain joint ventures and subsidiaries that we do not entirely control. Our ability to access cash from these entities may be more restricted than if these entities were wholly-owned subsidiaries. Some of our activities are, and will in the future be, conducted through entities that we do not entirely control or wholly own. These entities include our Norf, Germany; Logan, Kentucky; and Evermore Recycling joint ventures, as well as our majority-owned Malaysian subsidiary. Our Malaysian subsidiary is a public company whose shares are listed for trading on the Bursa Malaysia. Under the governing documents, agreements or securities laws applicable to or stock exchange listing rules relative to certain of these joint ventures and subsidiaries, our ability to fully control certain operational matters may be limited. In addition, we do not solely determine certain key matters, such as the timing and amount of cash distributions from these entities. As a result, our ability to access cash from these entities may be more restricted than if they were wholly-owned entities. Further, in some cases we do not have rights to prevent a joint venture partner from selling its joint venture interests to a third party. Hindalco and its interests as equity holder may conflict with the interests of the holders of our senior notes in the future. Novelis is an indirectly wholly-owned subsidiary of Hindalco. As a result, Hindalco may exercise control over our decisions to enter into any corporate transaction or capital restructuring and has the ability to approve or prevent any transaction that requires the approval of our shareholder. Hindalco may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in its judgment, could enhance its equity investment, even though such transactions might involve risks to holders of our Senior Notes. Additionally, Hindalco operates in the aluminum industry and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete, directly or indirectly, with us. Hindalco has no obligation to provide us with financing and is able to sell their equity ownership in us at any time. If we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of primary aluminum, recycled aluminum, sheet ingot and other raw materials used in the production of our products, our ability to produce and deliver products or to manufacture products on a timely basis and using the desired mix of metal inputs could be adversely affected. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for our raw materials requirements. Increasing aluminum demand levels have caused supply constraints in the industry. Further increases in demand levels could exacerbate these supply issues. In addition, worldwide supplies of primary ingot may be constrained by speculative investor activities. If we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of primary aluminum, recycled aluminum, sheet ingot and other raw materials used in the production of our rolled aluminum products due to supply constraints in the future, our ability to produce and deliver products or to manufacture products on a timely basis could be adversely affected. 24 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Certain of our manufacturing operations rely on UBCs for a portion of base metal inputs. Since January 1, 2010, we have relied on our joint venture with Alcoa Inc., Evermore Recycling, as our exclusive agent for the procurement of UBCs in North America. In December 2011, we provided notice to Alcoa and Evermore Recycling of our intention to withdraw from Evermore Recycling. Upon the termination of our relationship with Evermore Recycling, we will acquire UBCs on our own behalf, through third party suppliers, to support our North American operations. Competition for UBCs is significant, and while we believe we will be able to obtain sufficient quantities to meet our production needs, if we are unable to do so, we could be required to purchase more expensive metal inputs which could have an adverse effect on our profitability and cash flows. In addition, our sheet ingot requirements have historically been, in part, supplied by Rio Tinto Alcan pursuant to agreements with us. For the year ended March 31, 2012, we purchased the majority of our third party sheet ingot requirements from Rio Tinto Alcan’s primary metal group. If Rio Tinto Alcan or any other significant supplier of sheet ingot is unable to deliver sufficient quantities of this material on a timely basis, our production may be disrupted and our net sales, profitability and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Although aluminum is traded on the world markets, developing alternative suppliers of sheet ingot could be time consuming and expensive. We face significant price and other forms of competition from other aluminum rolled products producers, which could hurt our results of operations and cash flows. Generally, the markets in which we operate are highly competitive. We compete primarily on the basis of our value proposition, including price, product quality, ability to meet customers’ specifications, range of products offered, lead times, technical support and customer service. Some of our competitors may benefit from greater capital resources, have more efficient technologies, have lower raw material and energy costs and may be able to sustain longer periods of price competition. In particular, we face increased competition from producers in China, which have significantly lower production costs and pricing. This lower pricing could erode the market prices of our products in the Chinese market and elsewhere. In addition, our competitive position within the global aluminum rolled products industry may be affected by, among other things, the trend toward consolidation among our competitors, exchange rate fluctuations that may make our products less competitive in relation to the products of companies based in other countries (despite the U.S. dollar-based input cost and the marginal costs of shipping) and economies of scale in purchasing, production and sales, which accrue to the benefit of some of our competitors. For example, the price gap between the Shanghai Futures Exchange (SHFE) and the LME may make products manufactured in China with SHFE prices for aluminum more competitive compared to our products manufactured in Asia with LME prices for aluminum. Increased competition could cause a reduction in our shipment volumes and profitability or increase our expenditures, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and cash flows. The end-use markets for certain of our products are highly competitive and customers are willing to accept substitutes for our products. The end-use markets for certain aluminum rolled products are highly competitive. Aluminum competes with other materials, such as steel, plastics, composite materials and glass, among others, for various applications, including in beverage and food cans, electronics and automotive end-use markets. In the past, customers have demonstrated a willingness to substitute other materials for aluminum. For example, changes in consumer preferences in beverage containers have increased the use of PET plastic containers and glass bottles in recent years. These trends may continue. The willingness of customers to accept substitutes for aluminum products could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and cash flows. The seasonal nature of some of our customers’ industries could have a negative effect on our financial results and cash flows. The construction industry and the consumption of beer and soda are sensitive to weather conditions and as a result, demand for aluminum rolled products in the construction industry and for can feedstock can be seasonal. Our quarterly financial results could fluctuate as a result of climatic changes, and a prolonged series of cool summers in the different regions in which we conduct our business could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and cash flows. 25 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We are subject to a broad range of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, and we may be exposed to substantial environmental, health and safety costs and liabilities. We are subject to a broad range of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. These laws and regulations impose stringent environmental, health and safety protection standards and permitting requirements regarding, among other things, air emissions, wastewater storage, treatment and discharges, the use and handling of hazardous or toxic materials, waste disposal practices, the remediation of environmental contamination, post-mining reclamation and working conditions for our employees. Some environmental laws, such as Superfund and comparable laws in U.S. states and other jurisdictions worldwide, impose joint and several liability for the cost of environmental remediation, natural resource damages, third party claims, and other expenses, without regard to the fault or the legality of the original conduct. The costs of complying with these laws and regulations, including participation in assessments and remediation of contaminated sites and installation of pollution control facilities, have been, and in the future could be, significant. In addition, these laws and regulations may also result in substantial environmental liabilities associated with divested assets, third party locations and past activities. In certain instances, these costs and liabilities, as well as related action to be taken by us, could be accelerated or increased if we were to close, divest of or change the principal use of certain facilities with respect to which we may have environmental liabilities or remediation obligations. Currently, we are involved in a number of compliance efforts, remediation activities and legal proceedings concerning environmental matters, including certain activities and proceedings arising under Superfund and comparable laws in U.S. states and other jurisdictions worldwide in which we have operations. We have established liabilities for environmental remediation activities where appropriate. However, the cost of addressing environmental matters (including the timing of any charges related thereto) cannot be predicted with certainty, and these liabilities may not ultimately be adequate, especially in light of changing interpretations of laws and regulations by regulators and courts, the discovery of previously unknown environmental conditions, the risk of governmental orders to carry out additional compliance on certain sites not initially included in remediation in progress, our potential liability to remediate sites for which provisions have not been previously established and the adoption of more stringent environmental laws including, for example, the possibility of increased regulation of the use of bisphenol-A, a chemical component commonly used in the coating of aluminum cans. Such future developments could result in increased environmental costs and liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results or cash flows. Furthermore, the failure to comply with our obligations under the environmental laws and regulations could subject us to administrative, civil or criminal penalties, obligations to pay damages or other costs, and injunctions or other orders, including orders to cease operations. In addition, the presence of environmental contamination at our properties could adversely affect our ability to sell property, receive full value for a property or use a property as collateral for a loan. Some of our current and potential operations are located or could be located in or near communities that may regard such operations as having a detrimental effect on their social and economic circumstances. Community objections could have a material adverse impact upon the profitability or, in extreme cases, the viability of an operation. We use a variety of hazardous materials and chemicals in our rolling processes, as well as in our smelting operations in Brazil and in connection with maintenance work on our manufacturing facilities. Because of the nature of these substances or related residues, we may be liable for certain costs, including, among others, costs for health-related claims or removal or re-treatment of such substances. Certain of our current and former facilities incorporate asbestos-containing materials, a hazardous substance that has been the subject of health-related claims for occupational exposure. In addition, although we have developed environmental, health and safety programs for our employees, including measures to reduce employee exposure to hazardous substances, and conduct regular assessments at our facilities, we are currently, and in the future may be, involved in claims and litigation filed on behalf of persons alleging injury predominantly as a result of occupational exposure to substances or other hazards at our current or former facilities. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of these claims and lawsuits due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. If these claims and lawsuits, individually or in the aggregate, were finally resolved against us, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. We may be exposed to significant legal proceedings or investigations. From time to time, we are involved in, or the subject of, disputes, proceedings and investigations with respect to a variety of matters, including environmental, health and safety, product liability, employee, tax, personal injury, contractual and other matters as well as other disputes and proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business. Certain of these matters are discussed in the preceding risk factor. Any claims against us or any investigations involving us, whether meritorious or not, could be costly to defend or comply with and could divert management’s attention as well as operational resources. Any such dispute, litigation or investigation, whether currently pending or threatened or in the future, may have a material adverse effect on our financial results and cash flows. 26 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Product liability claims against us could result in significant costs or negatively impact our reputation and could adversely affect our business results and financial condition. We are sometimes exposed to warranty and product liability claims. There can be no assurance that we will not experience material product liability losses arising from individual suits or class actions alleging product liability defects or related claims in the future and that these will not have a negative impact on us. We generally maintain insurance against many product liability risks, but there can be no assurance that this coverage will be adequate for any liabilities ultimately incurred. In addition, there is no assurance that insurance will continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. A successful claim that exceeds our available insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and cash flows. We may be affected by global climate change or by legal, regulatory, or market responses to such change. There is a growing concern over climate change, which has led to new and proposed legislative and regulatory initiatives, such as cap-and-trade systems and additional limits on emissions of greenhouse gases. New laws enacted could directly and indirectly affect our customers and suppliers (through an increase in the cost of production or their ability to produce satisfactory products) or our business (through an impact on our inventory availability, cost of sales, operations or demand for the products we sell), which could result in an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Compliance with any new or more stringent laws or regulations, or stricter interpretations of existing laws, could require additional expenditures by us, our customers or our suppliers. Also, we rely on natural gas, electricity, fuel oil and transport fuel to operate our facilities. Any increased costs of these energy sources because of new laws could be passed along to us and our customers and suppliers, which could also have a negative impact on our profitability. Income tax payments may ultimately differ from amounts currently recorded by the Company. Future tax law changes may materially increase the Company’s prospective income tax expense. We are subject to income taxation in many jurisdictions. Judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax provision and accordingly there are many transactions and computations for which our final income tax determination is uncertain. We are routinely audited by income tax authorities in many tax jurisdictions. Although we believe the recorded tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate outcome from any audit (or related litigation) could be materially different from amounts reflected in our income tax provisions and accruals. Future settlements of income tax audits may have a material effect on earnings between the period of initial recognition of tax estimates in the financial statements and the point of ultimate tax audit settlement. Additionally, it is possible that future income tax legislation in any jurisdiction to which we are subject may be enacted that could have a material impact on our worldwide income tax provision beginning with the period that such legislation becomes effective. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business. We have a relatively high degree of leverage. As of March 31, 2012, we had $4.4 billion of indebtedness outstanding. Our substantial indebtedness and interest expense could have important consequences to our company and holders of notes, including: • limiting our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including volatility in LME aluminum prices; • limiting our ability to capitalize on business opportunities and to react to competitive pressures and adverse changes in government regulation; and • limiting our ability or increasing the costs to refinance indebtedness. 27 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The covenants in our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing our Senior Notes impose operating and financial restrictions on us. Our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing our senior notes impose certain operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries, among other things, to: • incur additional debt and provide additional guarantees; • pay dividends and make other restricted payments, including certain investments; • create or permit certain liens; • make certain asset sales; • use the proceeds from the sales of assets and subsidiary stock; • create or permit restrictions on the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to us; • engage in certain transactions with affiliates; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; and • consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets or the assets of our restricted subsidiaries. See Note 11 — Debt for additional discussion. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 