Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Common Stock You may not receive dividends because our board of directors could, in its discretion, depart from or change our dividend policy at any time. We are not required to pay dividends, and our stockholders will not be guaranteed, or have contractual or other rights, to receive dividends. Our board of directors may decide at any time, in its discretion, to decrease the amount of dividends, otherwise change or revoke the dividend policy or discontinue entirely the payment of dividends. Our board could depart from or change our dividend policy, for example, if it were to determine that we had insufficient cash to take advantage of other opportunities with attractive rates of return. In addition, if we do not pay dividends, for whatever reason, your shares of our common stock could become less liquid and the market price of our common stock could decline. We might not have cash in the future to pay dividends in the intended amounts or at all. Our ability to pay dividends, and our board of directors’ determination to maintain our dividend policy, will depend on numerous factors, including the following: • the state of our business, the environment in which we operate and the various risks we face, including, but not limited to, competition, technological change, changes in our industry, regulatory and other risks summarized in this prospectus; • changes in the factors, assumptions and other considerations made by our board of directors in reviewing and adopting the dividend policy, as described under “Dividend Policy and Restrictions” in our Prospectus dated July 21, 2005, which is not incorporated by reference in this report; • our future results of operations, financial condition, liquidity needs and capital resources; • our various expected cash needs, including interest and any future principal payments on our indebtedness, capital expenditures, taxes, costs associated with compliance with Section 404 of Sarbanes Oxley, pension and other post-retirement contributions, costs to further integrate our Illinois and Texas billing systems and certain other costs; and • potential sources of liquidity, including borrowing under our revolving credit facility or possible asset sales. While our estimated cash available to pay dividends for the year ended December 31, 2005 was sufficient to pay dividends in accordance with our dividend policy, if our future estimated cash available to pay dividends were to fall below our expectations, our assumptions as to estimated cash needs are too low or if other applicable assumptions were to prove incorrect, we may need to: • either reduce or eliminate dividends; • fund dividends by incurring additional debt (to the extent we were permitted to do so under the agreements governing our then existing debt), which would increase our leverage, debt repayment obligations and interest expense and decrease our interest coverage, resulting in, among other things, reduced capacity to incur debt for other purposes, including to fund future dividend payments; • amend the terms of our credit agreement or indenture to permit us to pay dividends or make other payments if we are otherwise not permitted to do so; • fund dividends from future issuances of equity securities, which could be dilutive to our stockholders and negatively effect the price of our common stock; 26 Table of Contents • fund dividends from other sources, such as such as by asset sales or by working capital, which would leave us with less cash available for other purposes; and • reduce other expected uses of cash, such as capital expenditures. Over time, our capital and other cash needs will invariably be subject to uncertainties, which could affect whether we pay dividends and the level of any dividends we may pay in the future. In addition, if we seek to raise additional cash from additional debt incurrence or equity security issuances, we cannot assure you that such financing will be available on reasonable terms or at all. Each of the results listed above could negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and ability to maintain and expand our business. You may not receive dividends because of restrictions in our debt agreements, Delaware and Illinois law and state regulatory requirements. Our ability to pay dividends will be restricted by current and future agreements governing our debt, including our amended and restated credit agreement and our indenture, Delaware and Illinois law and state regulatory requirements. • Our credit agreement and our indenture restrict our ability to pay dividends. Based on the results of operations from October 1 through December 31, 2005, we would have been able to pay a quarterly dividend of $16.7 million based on the restricted payment covenants contained in our credit agreement and indenture. This is based on the ability of the borrowers under the credit facility (CCI and Texas Holdings) to pay to CCH $16.7 million in dividends and the ability of CCH to pay to its stockholders $130.1 million in dividends under the general formula under the restricted payments covenants of the indenture, commonly referred to as the build-up amount. The amount of dividends we will be able to make under the build-up amount will be based, in part, on the amount of cash that may be distributed by the borrowers under the credit agreement to us. In addition, based on the indenture provision relating to public equity offerings, which includes our IPO that was completed July 27, 2005, we expect that we will be able to pay approximately $4.1 million annually in dividends, subject to specified conditions. This means that we could pay $4.1 million in dividends under this provision in addition to whatever we may be able to pay under the build-up amount, although a dividend payment under this provision will reduce the amount we otherwise would have available to us under the build-up amount for restricted payments, including dividends. • Under Delaware law, our board of directors may not authorize payment of a dividend unless it is either paid out of our surplus, as calculated in accordance with the Delaware General Corporation law, or the DGCL, or if we do not have a surplus, it is paid out of our net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared and/or the preceding fiscal year. The Illinois Business Corporation Act also imposes limitations on the ability of our subsidiaries that are Illinois corporations, including ICTC, to declare and pay dividends. • The ICC and the PUCT could require our Illinois and Texas rural telephone companies to make minimum amounts of capital expenditures and could limit the amount of cash available to transfer from our rural telephone companies to us. Our rural telephone companies are ICTC, Consolidated Communications of Fort Bend Company and Consolidated Communications of Texas Company. As part of the ICC’s review of the reorganization consummated in connection with the completion of our IPO, the ICC imposed various conditions as part of its approval of the reorganization, including (1) prohibitions on the payment of dividends or other cash transfers from ICTC, our Illinois rural telephone company, to us if it fails to meet or exceed agreed benchmarks for a majority of seven service quality metrics for the prior reporting year and (2) the requirement that our Illinois rural telephone company have access to the higher of $5.0 million or its currently approved capital expenditure budget for each calendar year through a combination of available cash and amounts available under credit facilities. In addition, the Illinois Public Utilities Act prohibits the payment of dividends by ICTC, except out of earnings and earned surplus, if ICTC’s capital is or would become impaired by payment of the dividend, or if payment of the dividend would impair ICTC’s 27 Table of Contents ability to render reasonable and adequate service at reasonable rates, unless the ICC otherwise finds that the public interest requires payment of the dividend, subject to any conditions imposed by the ICC. See “Dividend Policy and Restrictions — Restrictions on Payment of Dividends — State Regulatory Requirements” in our Prospectus dated July 27, 2005, which is not incorporated by reference in this report. Because we are a holding company with no operations, we will not be able to pay dividends unless our subsidiaries transfer funds to us. As a holding company we have no direct operations and our principal assets are the equity interests we hold in our respective subsidiaries. In addition, our subsidiaries are legally distinct from us and have no obligation to transfer funds to us. As a result, we are dependent on the results of operations of our subsidiaries and, based on their existing and future debt agreements (such as the credit agreement), state corporation law of the subsidiaries and state regulatory requirements, their ability to transfer funds to us to meet our obligations and to pay dividends. We expect that our cash income tax liability will increase in 2006 as a result of the use of, and limitations on, our net operating loss carryforwards, which will reduce our after-tax cash available to pay dividends and may require us to reduce dividend payments in future periods. Beginning in 2006, we expect that our cash income tax liability will increase, which may limit the amount of cash we have available to pay dividends. Under the Internal Revenue Code, in general, to the extent a corporation has losses in excess of taxable income in a taxable period, it will generate a net operating loss or NOL that may be carried back or carried forward and used to offset taxable income in prior or future periods. As of December 31, 2005, we have $17.0 million of federal net operating losses, net of valuation allowances, available to us to carry forward to periods beginning after December 31, 2005. The amount of an NOL that may be used in a taxable year to offset taxable income may be limited, such as when a corporation undergoes an “ownership change” under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. We expect to generate taxable income in the future, which will be offset by our NOLs, subject to limitations, such as under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code as a result of our IPO and prior ownership changes. Once our NOLs have been used or have expired, we will be required to pay additional cash income taxes. The increase in our cash income tax liability will have the effect of reducing our after-tax cash available to pay dividends in future periods and may require us to reduce dividend payments on our common stock in such future periods. If we continue to pay dividends at the level currently anticipated under our dividend policy, our ability to pursue growth opportunities may be limited. We believe that our dividend policy will limit, but not preclude, our ability to grow. If we continue paying dividends at the level currently anticipated under our dividend policy, we may not retain a sufficient amount of cash, and may need to seek financing, to fund a material expansion of our business, including any significant acquisitions or to pursue growth opportunities requiring capital expenditures significantly beyond our current expectations. The risks relating to funding any dividends, or other cash needs as a result of paying dividends, are summarized above. In addition, because we expect a significant portion of cash available will be distributed to the holders of our common stock under our dividend policy, our ability to pursue any material expansion of our business will depend more than it otherwise would on our ability to obtain third party financing. We cannot assure you that such financing will be available to us on reasonable terms or at all. Future sales, or the perception of future sales, of a substantial amount of our common stock may depress the price of the shares of our common stock. Future sales, or the perception or the availability for sale in the public market, of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through future sales of equity securities. As of December 31, 2005, we 28 Table of Contents had 29,775,010 shares of common stock outstanding, 15,666,666 shares of which were registered with the SEC in connection with our IPO and are freely transferable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. The remaining 14,108,344 shares of common stock owned by those of our stockholders who received their shares in the reorganization are restricted securities within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act but will be eligible for resale subject to applicable volume, manner of sale, holding period and other limitations of Rule 144. Finally, certain of our stockholders have registration rights with respect to their common stock. We may issue shares of our common stock, or other securities, from time to time as consideration for future acquisitions and investments. In the event any such acquisition or investment is significant, the number of shares of our common stock, or the number or aggregate principal amount, as the case may be, of other securities that we may issue may in turn be significant. We may also grant registration rights covering those shares or other securities in connection with any such acquisitions and investments. Our organizational documents could limit or delay another party’s ability to acquire us and, therefore, could deprive our investors of the opportunity to obtain a takeover premium for their shares. A number of provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws will make it difficult for another company to acquire us. These provisions include, among others, the following: • dividing our board of directors into three classes, which results in only approximately one-third of our board of directors being elected each year; • requiring the affirmative vote of holders of not less than 75% of the voting power of our outstanding common stock to approve any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets; • providing that directors may only be removed for cause and then only upon the affirmative vote of holders of not less than two-thirds of the voting power of our outstanding common stock; • requiring the affirmative vote of holders of not less than two-thirds of the voting power of our outstanding common stock to amend, alter, change or repeal specified provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws (other than provisions regarding stockholder approval of any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets, which shall require the affirmative vote of 75% of the voting power of our outstanding common stock); • requiring stockholders to provide us with advance notice if they wish to nominate any persons for election to our board of directors or if they intend to propose any matters for consideration at an annual stockholders meeting; and • authorizing the issuance of so-called “blank check” preferred stock without stockholder approval upon such terms as the board of directors may determine. We are also subject to laws that may have a similar effect. For example, federal and Illinois telecommunications laws and regulations generally prohibit a direct or indirect transfer of control over our business without prior regulatory approval. Similarly, section 203 of the DGCL prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years from the date the person became an interested stockholder unless certain conditions are met. As a result of the foregoing, it will be difficult for another company to acquire us and, therefore, could limit the price that possible investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. In addition, the rights of our common stockholders will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of holders of any class or series of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The concentration of the voting power of our common stock ownership could limit your ability to influence corporate matters. On December 31, 2005, Central Illinois Telephone and Providence Equity owned approximately 18.9% and 12.7% of our common stock, respectively. In addition, our management and key employees also 29 Table of Contents owned approximately 3.7%. As a result, these investors will be able to significantly influence all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the ability to: • elect a majority of the members of our board of directors; • enter into significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or its assets, or to prevent any such transaction; • enter into acquisitions that increase our amount of indebtedness or sell revenue-generating assets; • determine our corporate and management policies; • amend our organizational documents; and • other matters submitted to our stockholders for approval. This concentrated control will limit your ability to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that other stockholders do not view as beneficial, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Central Illinois Telephone and Providence Equity may have conflicts of interests with you or us in the future, including by making investments in companies that compete with us, competing with us for acquisition opportunities or otherwise taking actions that further their interests but which might involve risks to, or otherwise adversely affect, us or you. While we do not believe Central Illinois Telephone and Providence Equity currently hold interests in companies that compete with us, they may make investments in companies in the future and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. These other investments may: • create competing financial demands on these investors; • create potential conflicts of interest; and • require efforts consistent with applicable law to keep the other businesses separate from our operations. Central Illinois Telephone and Providence Equity may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. Furthermore, these equity investors also may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investment, even though such transactions might involve risks to our common stockholders. In addition, their rights to vote or dispose of equity interests in our company are not subject to restrictions in favor of our company other than as may be required by applicable law. As a public company we are required to comply with new laws, regulations and requirements, which have increased our expenses and administrative workload and occupy a significant amount of the time of our board of directors, management and our officers. As a public company with listed equity securities, we are required to comply with additional laws, regulations and requirements, such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, related SEC regulations and requirements of The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc., or Nasdaq, that we did not need to comply with as a private company. Complying with new statutes, regulations and requirements has occupied and will continue to occupy a significant amount of the time of our board of directors, management and our officers and has increased our costs and expenses. In addition, these new rules and regulations have made it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage in the future. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and qualified executive officers. 30 Table of Contents If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we may be unable to provide the required financial information in a timely and reliable manner and may be subject to sanctions by regulatory authorities. The perception of these matters could cause our share price to fall. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related regulations implemented by the SEC and Nasdaq are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time consuming. We will be evaluating our internal controls systems to allow management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, our internal controls over financial reporting. We will be performing the system and process evaluation and testing (and any necessary remediation) required to comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. While we anticipate being able to fully implement the requirements relating to internal controls and all other aspects of Section 404 by the December 31, 2006 deadline, we cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations since there is presently no precedent available by which to measure compliance adequacy. If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC or Nasdaq. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results or investors’ confidence us, and could cause our stock price to fall. In addition, the controls and procedures that we will implement may not comply with all of the relevant rules and regulations of the SEC and Nasdaq. If we fail to develop and maintain effective controls and procedures, we may be unable to provide financial information in a timely and reliable manner. The perception of these matters could cause our share price to fall. To date we have incurred operating costs in implementing the requirements under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and we expect to incur additional operating expenses in connection with the completion of our initial implementation and assessment and the auditor attestation with respect to fiscal year 2006, as well as in meeting the requirements relating to internal control over financial reporting in the future. We cannot assure you that the operating expenses we actually incur will not exceed our expectations, both relating to fiscal year 2006 and subsequent periods. Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness and Our Capital Structure We have a substantial amount of debt outstanding and may incur additional indebtedness in the future, which could restrict our ability to pay dividends. We have a significant amount of debt outstanding. As of December 31, 2005, we had $555.0 million of total long-term debt outstanding and $199.2 million of stockholders equity. The degree to which we are leveraged could have important consequences for you, including: • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make payments on our debt, which payments we currently expect to be approximately $37.0 to $38.0 million in 2006, thereby reducing funds available for operations, future business opportunities and other purposes and/or dividends on our common stock; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt and other obligations; • limiting our ability to borrow additional funds, or to sell assets to raise funds, if needed, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes; 31 Table of Contents • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including changes in interest rates; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. We cannot assure you that we will generate sufficient revenues to service and repay our debt and have sufficient funds left over to achieve or sustain profitability in our operations, meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs, compete successfully in our markets or pay dividends to our stockholders. Subject to the restrictions in our indenture and credit agreement, we may be able to incur additional debt. As of December 31, 2005, we would have been able to incur approximately $121.2 million of additional debt. Although our indenture and credit agreement contain restrictions on our ability to incur additional debt, these restrictions are subject to a number of important exceptions. If we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage, including our ability to service our debt, would likely increase. We will require a significant amount of cash to service and repay our debt and to pay dividends on our common stock, and our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. We currently expect our cash interest expense to be approximately $37.0 to $38.0 million in fiscal year 2006. Our ability to make payments on our debt and to pay dividends on our common stock will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future, which will depend on many factors beyond our control. We cannot assure you that: • our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service and repay our debt, pay dividends on our common stock and to fund working capital and planned capital expenditures; • future borrowings will be available under our credit facilities or any future credit facilities in an amount sufficient to enable us to repay our debt and pay dividends on our common stock; or • we will be able to refinance any of our debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we cannot generate sufficient cash from our operations to meet our debt service and repayment obligations, we may need to reduce or delay capital expenditures, the development of our business generally and any acquisitions. If for any reason we are unable to meet our debt service and repayment obligations, we would be in default under the terms of the agreements governing our debt, which would allow the lenders under our credit facilities to declare all borrowings outstanding to be due and payable, which would in turn trigger an event of default under our indenture. If the amounts outstanding under our credit facilities or our senior notes were to be accelerated, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full the money owed to the lenders or to our other debt holders. Our indenture and credit agreement contain covenants that limit the discretion of our management in operating our business and could prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking other corporate actions. Our indenture and credit agreement impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit or restrict, among other things, our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries that are restricted by these agreements to: • incur additional debt and issue preferred stock; • make restricted payments, including paying dividends on, redeeming, repurchasing or retiring our capital stock; • make investments and prepay or redeem debt; • enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends, make loans or transfer assets to us; • create liens; 32 Table of Contents • sell or otherwise dispose of assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • engage in sale and leaseback transactions; • make capital expenditures; • engage in business other than telecommunications businesses; and • consolidate or merge. In addition, our credit agreement requires, and any future credit agreements may require, us to comply with specified financial ratios, including ratios regarding interest coverage, total leverage, senior secured leverage and fixed charge coverage. Our ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by events beyond our control. These restrictions: • limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions, meet capital needs or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans; and • adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, enter into acquisitions or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest. In the event of a default under the amended and restated credit agreement, the lenders could foreclose on the assets and capital stock pledged to them. A breach of any of the covenants contained in our credit agreement, or in any future credit agreements, or our inability to comply with the financial ratios could result in an event of default, which would allow the lenders to declare all borrowings outstanding to be due and payable, which would in turn trigger an event of default under the indenture. If the amounts outstanding under our credit facilities or our senior notes were to be accelerated, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full the money owed to the lenders or to our other debt holders. Because we expect to need to refinance our existing debt, we face the risks of either not being able to do so or doing so at a higher interest expense. Our senior notes mature in 2012 and our credit facilities mature in full in 2011. We may not be able to refinance our senior notes or renew or refinance our credit facilities, or any renewal or refinancing may occur on less favorable terms. If we are unable to refinance or renew our senior notes or our credit facilities, our failure to repay all amounts due on the maturity date would cause a default under the indenture or the credit agreement. In addition, our interest expense may increase significantly if we refinance our senior notes, which bear interest at 93/4 % per year, or our amended and restated credit facilities, which bear interest at the London interbank offered rate, or LIBOR, plus 1.75% per year, on terms that are less favorable to us than the existing terms of our senior notes or credit facilities, which could impair our ability to pay dividends. Relating to Our Business The telecommunications industry is generally subject to substantial regulatory changes, rapid development and introduction of new technologies and intense competition that could cause us to suffer price reductions, customer losses, reduced operating margins or loss of market share. The telecommunications industry has been, and we believe will continue to be, characterized by several trends, including the following: • substantial regulatory change due to the passage and implementation of the Telecommunications Act, which included changes designed to stimulate competition for both local and long distance telecommunications services; 33 Table of Contents • rapid development and introduction of new technologies and services; • increased competition within established markets from current and new market entrants that may provide competing or alternative services; • the blurring of traditional dividing lines between, and the bundling of, different services, such as local dial tone, long distance, wireless, cable, data and Internet services; and • an increase in mergers and strategic alliances that allow one telecommunications provider to offer increased services or access to wider geographic markets. We expect competition to intensify as a result of new competitors and the development of new technologies, products and services. Some or all of these risks may cause us to have to spend significantly more in capital expenditures than we currently anticipate to keep existing, and attract new, customers. Many of our voice and data competitors, such as cable providers, Internet access providers, wireless service providers and long distance carriers have brand recognition and financial, personnel, marketing and other resources that are significantly greater than ours. In addition, due to consolidation and strategic alliances within the telecommunications industry, we cannot predict the number of competitors that will emerge, especially as a result of existing or new federal and state regulatory or legislative actions. For example, the acquisition of AT&T, one of our largest customers, by SBC, the dominant local exchange company in the areas in which our Texas rural telephone companies operate, could increase competitive pressures for our services and impact our long distance and access revenues. Such increased competition from existing and new entities could lead to price reductions, loss of customers, reduced operating margins or loss of market share. The use of new technologies by other, existing companies may increase our costs and cause us to lose customers and revenues. The telecommunications industry is subject to rapid and significant changes in technology, frequent new service introductions and evolving industry standards. Technological developments may reduce the competitiveness of our services and require unbudgeted upgrades, significant capital expenditures and the procurement of additional services that could be expensive and time consuming. New services arising out of technological developments may reduce the competitiveness of our services. If we fail to respond successfully to technological changes or obsolescence or fail to obtain access to important new technologies, we could lose customers and revenues and be limited in our ability to attract new customers or sell new services to our existing customers. The successful development of new services, which is an element of our business strategy, is uncertain and dependent on many factors, and we may not generate anticipated revenues from such services, which would reduce our profitability. We cannot predict the effect of these changes on our competitive position, costs or our profitability. In addition, part of our marketing strategy is based on market acceptance of DSL and DVS. We expect that an increasing amount of our revenues will come from providing DSL and DVS. The market for high-speed Internet access is still developing, and we expect current competitors and new market entrants to introduce competing services and to develop new technologies. Likewise, the ability to deliver high quality video service over traditional telephone lines is a new development that has not yet been proven. The markets for these services could fail to develop, grow more slowly than anticipated or become saturated with competitors with superior pricing or services. In addition, our DSL and DVS offerings may become subject to newly adopted laws and regulations. We cannot predict the outcome of these regulatory developments or how they may affect our regulatory obligations or the form of competition for these services. As a result, we could have higher costs and capital expenditures, lower revenues and greater competition than expected for DSL and DVS services. 34 Table of Contents If we are not successful in integrating TXUCV, we may have higher costs and fail to achieve expected cost savings, among other things. Our future success, and thus our ability to pay interest and principal on our indebtedness and dividends on our common stock will depend in part on our ability to integrate TXUCV into our business. Since the closing of the TXUCV acquisition, we have incurred approximately $14.4 in operating expenses associated with the integration and restructuring of TXUCV. These integration and restructuring costs are in addition to the additional costs associated with completing the integration of our Illinois and Texas billing systems and certain ongoing costs we expect to incur to expand certain administrative functions, such as those relating to SEC reporting and compliance and do not take into account other potential cost savings and expenses of the TXUCV acquisition. The integration of TXUCV involves numerous risks, including the following: • greater demands on our management and administrative resources; • difficulties and unexpected costs in integrating the operations, personnel, services, technologies and other systems of our Illinois and Texas operations; • possible unexpected loss of key employees, customers and suppliers; • unanticipated liabilities and contingencies of TXUCV and its business; • unexpected costs of integrating the management and operation of the two businesses; and • failure to achieve expected cost savings. These challenges and uncertainties could increase our costs and cause our management to spend less time than expected executing our business strategy. We may not be able to manage the combined operations and assets effectively or realize all or any of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. To the extent that we make any additional acquisitions in the future, these risks would likely be exacerbated. We may become responsible for unexpected liabilities or other contingencies that we did not discover in the course of performing due diligence in connection with the TXUCV acquisition. Under the stock purchase agreement, the parent company of TXUCV agreed to indemnify us against certain undisclosed liabilities. We cannot assure you, however, that any indemnification will be enforceable, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset any possible liabilities associated with the acquisition. Any of these contingencies, individually or in the aggregate, could increase our costs. Our possible pursuit of acquisitions is expensive, may not be successful and, even if it is successful, may be more costly than anticipated. Our acquisition strategy entails numerous risks. The pursuit of acquisition candidates is expensive and may not be successful. Our ability to complete future acquisitions will depend on our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates, negotiate acceptable terms for their acquisition and, if necessary, finance those acquisitions, in each case, before any attractive candidates are purchased by other parties, some of whom may have greater financial and other resources than us. Whether or not any particular acquisition is closed successfully, each of these activities is expensive and time consuming and would likely require our management to spend considerable time and effort to accomplish them, which would detract from their ability to run our current business. We may face unexpected challenges in receiving any required approvals from the FCC, the ICC, or other applicable state regulatory commissions, which could result in delay or our not being able to consummate the acquisition. Although we may spend considerable expense and effort to pursue acquisitions, we may not be successful in closing them. If we are successful in closing any acquisitions, we would face several risks in integrating them, including those listed above regarding the risks of integrating TXUCV. In addition, any due diligence we perform may not prove to have been accurate. For example, we may face unexpected difficulties in entering markets in which we have little or no direct prior experience or in generating expected revenue and cash flow from the acquired companies or assets. The risks identified above may make it more 35 Table of Contents challenging and costly to integrate TXUCV if we have not done so fully by the time of any new acquisition. Currently, we are not pursuing any acquisitions or other strategic transactions. But, if any of these risks materialize, they could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to achieve sufficient cash flow, provide adequate working capital, service and repay our indebtedness and leave sufficient funds to pay dividends. Poor economic conditions in our service areas in Illinois and Texas could cause us to lose local access lines and revenues. Substantially all of our customers and operations are located in Illinois and Texas. The customer base for telecommunications services in each of our rural telephone companies’ service areas in Illinois and Texas is small and geographically concentrated, particularly for residential customers. Due to our geographical concentration, the successful operation and growth of our business is primarily dependent on economic conditions in our rural telephone companies’ service areas. The economies of these areas, in turn, are dependent upon many factors, including: • demographic trends; • in Illinois, the strength of the agricultural markets and the light manufacturing and services industries, continued demand from universities and hospitals and the level of government spending; and • in Texas, the strength of the manufacturing, health care, waste management and retail industries and continued demand from schools and hospitals. Poor economic conditions and other factors beyond our control in our rural telephone companies’ service areas could cause a decline in our local access lines and revenues. A system failure could cause delays or interruptions of service, which could cause us to lose customers. In the past, we have experienced short, localized disruptions in our service due to factors such as cable damage, inclement weather and service failures of our third party service providers. To be successful, we will need to continue to provide our customers reliable service over our network. The principal risks to our network and infrastructure include: • physical damage to our central offices or local access lines; • disruptions beyond our control; • power surges or outages; and • software defects. Disruptions may cause interruptions in service or reduced capacity for customers, either of which could cause us to lose customers and incur unexpected expenses, and thereby adversely affect our business, revenue and cash flow. Loss of a large customer could reduce our revenues. In addition, a significant portion of our revenues from the State of Illinois is based on contracts that are favorable to the government. Our success depends in part upon the retention of our large customers such as AT&T and the State of Illinois. AT&T accounted for 5.0% and the State of Illinois accounted for 5.8% of our revenues during 2005, and 5.0% and 7.4% of our revenues for December 31, 2004, respectively. In general, telecommunications companies such as ours face the risk of losing customers as a result of contract expiration, merger or acquisition, business failure or the selection of another provider of voice or data services. In addition, we generate a significant portion of our operating revenues from originating and terminating long distance and international telephone calls for carriers such as AT&T and MCI, which 36 Table of Contents have recently been acquired or experienced substantial financial difficulties. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain long-term relationships or secure renewals of short-term relationships with our customers in the future. In 2005 and 2004, 46.2% and 49.6%, respectively, of our Other Operations revenues were derived from our relationships with various agencies of the State of Illinois, principally the Department of Corrections through Public Services. Our relationship with the Department of Corrections accounted for 93.0% and 92.8%, respectively, of our Public Services revenues during 2005 and 2004. Our predecessor’s relationship with the Department of Corrections has existed since 1990 despite changes in government administrations. Nevertheless, obtaining contracts from government agencies is challenging, and government contracts, like our contracts with the State of Illinois, often include provisions that are favorable to the government in ways that are not standard in private commercial transactions. Specifically, each of our contracts with the State of Illinois: • includes provisions that allow the respective state agency to terminate the contract without cause and without penalty under some circumstances; • is subject to decisions of state agencies that are subject to political influence on renewal; • gives the State of Illinois the right to renew the contract at its option but does not give us the same right; and • could be cancelled if state funding becomes unavailable. The failure of the State of Illinois to perform under the existing agreements for any reason, or to renew the agreements when they expire, could have a material adverse effect on our revenues. For example, the State of Illinois, which represented 40.8% of the revenues of our Market Response business for 2004, awarded the renewal of the Illinois State Toll Highway Authority contract, the sole source of those revenues, to another provider. If we are unsuccessful in obtaining and maintaining necessary rights-of-way for our network, our operations may be interrupted and we would likely face increased costs. We need to obtain and maintain the necessary rights-of-way for our network from governmental and quasi-governmental entities and third parties, such as railroads, utilities, state highway authorities, local governments and transit authorities. We may not be successful in obtaining and maintaining these rights-of-way or obtaining them on acceptable terms whether in existing or new service areas. Some of the agreements relating to these rights-of-way may be short-term or revocable at will, and we cannot be certain that we will continue to have access to existing rights-of-way after they have expired or terminated. If any of our rights-of-way agreements were terminated or could not be renewed, we may be forced to remove our network facilities from under the affected rights-of-way or relocate or abandon our networks. We may not be able to maintain all of our existing rights-of-way and permits or obtain and maintain the additional rights-of-way and permits needed to implement our business plan. In addition, our failure to maintain the necessary rights-of-way, franchises, easements, licenses and permits may result in an event of default under the amended and restated credit agreement and other credit agreements we may enter into in the future and, as a result, other agreements governing our debt. As a result of the above, our operations may be interrupted and we may need to find alternative rights-of-way and make unexpected capital expenditures. We are dependent on third party vendors for our information and billing systems. Any significant disruption in our relationship with these vendors could increase our costs and affect our operating efficiencies. Sophisticated information and billing systems are vital to our ability to monitor and control costs, bill customers, process customer orders, provide customer service and achieve operating efficiencies. We currently rely on internal systems and third party vendors to provide all of our information and processing systems. Some of our billing, customer service and management information systems have been developed 37 Table of Contents by third parties for us and may not perform as anticipated. In addition, our plans for developing and implementing our information and billing systems rely primarily on the delivery of products and services by third party vendors. Our right to use these systems is dependent upon license agreements with third party vendors. Some of these agreements are cancelable by the vendor, and the cancellation or nonrenewable nature of these agreements could impair our ability to process orders or bill our customers. Since we rely on third party vendors to provide some of these services, any switch in vendors could be costly and affect operating efficiencies. The loss of key management personnel, or the inability to attract and retain highly qualified management and other personnel in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends upon the talents and efforts of key management personnel, many of whom have been with our company and our industry for decades, including Mr. Lumpkin, Robert J. Currey, Steven L. Childers, Joseph R. Dively, Steven J. Shirar, C. Robert Udell, Jr. and Christopher A. Young. There are no employment agreements with any of these senior managers. The loss of any such management personnel, due to retirement or otherwise, and the inability to attract and retain highly qualified technical and management personnel in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Regulatory Risks The telecommunications industry in which we operate is subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation that could change in a manner adverse to us. Our main sources of revenues are our local telephone businesses in Illinois and Texas. The laws and regulations governing these businesses may be, and in some cases have been, challenged in the courts, and could be changed by Congress, state legislatures or regulators at any time. In addition, new regulations could be imposed by federal or state authorities increasing our operating costs or capital requirements or that are otherwise adverse to us. We cannot predict the impact of future developments or changes to the regulatory environment or the impact such developments or changes may have on us. Adverse rulings, legislation or changes in governmental policy on issues material to us could increase our competition, cause us to lose customers to competitors and decrease our revenues, increase our costs and decrease profitability. Our rural telephone companies could lose their rural status under interconnection rules, which would increase our costs and could cause us to lose customers and the associated revenues to competitors. The Telecommunications Act imposes a number of interconnection and other requirements on local communications providers, including incumbent telephone companies. Each of the subsidiaries through which we operate our local telephone businesses is an incumbent telephone company and is also classified as a rural telephone company under the Telecommunications Act. The Telecommunications Act exempts rural telephone companies from some of the more burdensome interconnection requirements such as unbundling of network elements and sharing information and facilities with other communications providers. These unbundling requirements and the obligation to offer unbundled network elements, or UNEs, to competitors, impose substantial costs on, and result in customer attrition for, the incumbent telephone companies that must comply with these requirements. The ICC or the PUCT can terminate the applicable rural exemption for each of our rural telephone companies if it receives a bona fide request for full interconnection from another telecommunications carrier and the state commission determines that the request is technically feasible, not unduly economically burdensome and consistent with universal service requirements. Neither the ICC nor the PUCT has yet terminated, or proposed to terminate, the rural exemption for any of our rural telephone companies. If the ICC or PUCT terminates the applicable rural exemption in whole or in part for any of our rural telephone companies, or if the applicable state commission does not allow us adequate compensation for the costs of providing the interconnection or 38 Table of Contents UNEs, our administrative and regulatory costs could increase significantly and we could suffer a significant loss of customers and revenues to existing or new competitors. Legislative or regulatory changes could reduce or eliminate the revenues our rural telephone companies receive from network access charges. A significant portion of our rural telephone companies’ revenues come from network access charges paid by long distance and other carriers for originating or terminating calls in our rural telephone companies’ service areas. The amount of network access charge revenues that our rural telephone companies receive is based on interstate rates set by the FCC and intrastate rates set by the ICC and PUCT. The FCC has reformed, and continues to reform, the federal network access charge system, and the states, including Illinois and Texas, often establish intrastate network access charges that mirror or otherwise interrelate with the federal rules. Traditionally, regulators have allowed network access rates to be set higher in rural areas than the actual cost of originating or terminating calls as an implicit means of subsidizing the high cost of providing local service in rural areas. In 2001, the FCC adopted rules reforming the network access charge system for rural carriers, including reductions in per-minute access charges and increases in both universal service fund subsidies and flat-rate, monthly per line charges on end-user customers. Our Illinois rural telephone company’s intrastate network access rates mirror interstate network access rates. Illinois does not provide, however, an explicit subsidy in the form of a universal service fund applicable to our Illinois rural telephone company. As a result, while subsidies from the federal universal service fund have offset Illinois Telephone Operations’ decrease in revenues resulting from the reduction in interstate network access rates, there was not a corresponding offset for the decrease in revenues from the reduction in intrastate network access rates. The FCC is currently considering even more sweeping potential changes in network access charges. Depending on the FCC’s decisions, our current network access charge revenues could be reduced materially, and we do not know whether increases in other revenues, such as federal or Texas subsidies and monthly line charges, will be sufficient to offset any such reductions. The ICC and the PUCT also may make changes in our intrastate network access charges, which may also cause reductions in our revenues. To the extent any of our rural telephone companies become subject to competition and competitive telephone companies increase their operations in the areas served by our rural telephone companies, a portion of long distance and other carriers’ network access charges will be paid to our competitors rather than to our companies. In addition, the compensation our companies receive from network access charges could be reduced due to competition from wireless carriers. In addition, VOIP services are increasingly being embraced by cable companies, incumbent telephone companies, competitive telephone companies and long distance carriers. The FCC is considering whether VOIP services are regulated telecommunications services or unregulated information services and is considering whether providers of VOIP services are obligated to pay access charges for calls originating or terminating on incumbent telephone company facilities. We cannot predict the outcome of the FCC’s rulemaking or the impact on the revenues of our rural telephone companies. The proliferation of VOIP, particularly to the extent such communications do not utilize our rural telephone companies’ networks, may cause significant reductions to our rural telephone companies’ network access charge revenues. We believe telecommunications carriers, such as long distance carriers or VOIP providers, are disputing and/or avoiding their obligation to pay network access charges to rural telephone companies for use of their networks. If carriers successfully dispute or avoid the applicability of network access charges, our revenues could decrease. In recent years, telecommunications carriers, such as long distance carriers or VOIP providers, have become more aggressive in disputing interstate access charge rates set by the FCC and the applicability of network access charges to their telecommunications traffic. We believe that these disputes have increased in part due to advances in technology that have rendered the identity and jurisdiction of traffic more 39 Table of Contents difficult to ascertain and that have afforded carriers an increased opportunity to assert regulatory distinctions and claims to lower access costs for their traffic. As a result of the increasing deployment of VOIP services and other technological changes, we believe that these types of disputes and claims will likely increase. In addition, we believe that there has been a general increase in the unauthorized use of telecommunications providers’ networks without payment of appropriate access charges, or so-called “phantom traffic”, due in part to advances in technology that have made it easier to use networks without having to pay for the traffic. As a general matter, we believe that this phantom traffic is due to unintended usage and, in some cases, fraud. We cannot assure you that there will not be material claims made against us contesting the applicability of network access charges billed by our rural telephone companies or continued or increased phantom traffic that uses our network without paying us for it. If there is a successful dispute or avoidance of the applicability of network access charges, our revenues could decrease. Legislative or regulatory changes could reduce or eliminate the government subsidies we receive. The federal and Texas state system of subsidies, from which we derive a significant portion of our revenues, are subject to modification. Our rural telephone companies receive significant federal and state subsidy payments. • For the year ended December 31, 2005, we received an aggregate $53.9 million from the federal universal service fund and the Texas universal service fund, which comprised 16.8% of our revenues for the year. • In 2004, we received an aggregate of $51.5 million from the federal universal service fund and the Texas universal service fund, which comprised 15.9% of our revenues in 2004, after giving effect to the TXUCV acquisition. During the last two years, the FCC has made modifications to the federal universal service fund system that changed the sources of support and the method for determining the level of support recipients of federal universal service fund subsidies receive. It is unclear whether the changes in methodology will continue to accurately reflect the costs incurred by our rural telephone companies and whether we will continue to receive the same amount of federal universal service fund support that our rural telephone companies have received in the past. The FCC is also currently considering a number of issues regarding the source and amount of contributions to, and eligibility for payments from, the federal universal service fund, and these issues may also be the subject of legislative amendments to the Telecommunications Act. In December 2004, Congress suspended the application of a law called the Urgent Deficiency Act to the FCC’s universal service fund until December 31, 2005. The Urgent Deficiency Act prohibits government agencies from making financial commitments in excess of their funds on hand. Currently, the universal service fund administrator makes commitments to fund recipients in advance of collecting the contributions from carriers that will pay for these commitments. The FCC has not determined whether the Urgent Deficiency Act would apply to payments to our rural telephone companies. Congress is now considering whether to extend the current temporary legislation that exempts the universal service fund from the Urgent Deficiency Act. If it does not grant this extension, however, the universal service subsidy payments to our rural telephone companies may be delayed or reduced in the future. We cannot predict the outcome of any federal or state legislative action or any FCC, PUCT or ICC rulemaking or similar proceedings. If our rural telephone companies do not continue to receive federal and state subsidies, or if these subsidies are reduced, our rural telephone companies will likely have lower revenues and may not be able to operate as profitably as they have historically. In addition, if the number of local access lines that our rural telephone companies serve increases, under the rules governing the federal universal service fund, the rate at which we can recover certain federal universal service fund payments may decrease. This may have an adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. In addition, under the Telecommunications Act, our competitors can obtain the same level of federal universal service fund subsidies as we do if the ICC or PUCT, as applicable, determines that granting these subsidies to competitors would be in the public interest and the competitors offer and advertise certain telephone services as required by the Telecommunications Act and the FCC. Under current rules, 40 Table of Contents any such payments to our competitors would not affect the level of subsidies received by our rural telephone companies, but they would facilitate competitive entry into our rural telephone companies’ service areas and our rural telephone companies may not be able to compete as effectively or otherwise continue to operate as profitability. The high costs of regulatory compliance could make it more difficult for us to enter new markets, make acquisitions or change our prices. Regulatory compliance results in significant costs for us and diverts the time and effort of management and our officers away from running our business. In addition, because regulations differ from state to state, we could face significant costs in obtaining information necessary to compete effectively if we try to provide services, such as long distance services, in markets in different states. These information barriers could cause us to incur substantial costs and to encounter significant obstacles and delays in entering these markets. Compliance costs and information barriers could also affect our ability to evaluate and compete for new opportunities to acquire local access lines or businesses as they arise. Our intrastate services are also generally subject to certification, tariff filing and other ongoing state regulatory requirements. Challenges to our tariffs by regulators or third parties or delays in obtaining certifications and regulatory approvals could cause us to incur substantial legal and administrative expenses. If successful, these challenges could adversely affect the rates that we are able to charge to customers, which would negatively affect our revenues. Legislative and regulatory changes in the telecommunications industry could raise our costs by facilitating greater competition against us and reduce potential revenues. Legislative and regulatory changes in the telecommunications industry could adversely affect our business by facilitating greater competition against us, reducing our revenues or raising our costs. For example, federal or state legislatures or regulatory commissions could impose new requirements relating to standards or quality of service, credit and collection policies, or obligations to provide new or enhanced services such as high-speed access to the Internet or number portability, whereby consumers can keep their telephone number when changing carriers. Any such requirements could increase operating costs or capital requirements. The Telecommunications Act provides for significant changes and increased competition in the telecommunications industry. This federal statute and the related regulations remain subject to judicial review and additional rulemakings of the FCC, as well as to implementing actions by state commissions. Currently, there exists only a small body of law and regulation applicable to access to, or commerce on, the Internet. As the significance of the Internet expands, federal, state and local governments may adopt new rules and regulations or apply existing laws and regulations to the Internet. The FCC is currently reviewing the appropriate regulatory framework governing high speed access to the Internet through telephone and cable providers’ communications networks. The outcome of these proceedings may affect our regulatory obligations and costs and competition for our services which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues. “Do not call” registries may increase our costs and limit our ability to market our services. Our Market Response business is subject to various federal and state “do not call” list requirements. Recently, the FCC and the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, amended their rules to provide for a national “do not call” registry. Under these new federal regulations, consumers may have their phone numbers added to the national registry and telemarketing companies, such as our Market Response business, are prohibited from calling anyone on that registry other than for limited exceptions. In September 2003, telemarketers were given access to the registry and are now required to compare their call lists against the national “do not call” registry at least once every 31 days. We are required to pay a fee to access the registry on a quarterly basis. This rule may restrict our ability to market our services 41 Table of Contents effectively to new customers. Furthermore, compliance with this new rule may prove difficult, and we may incur penalties for improperly conducting our marketing activities. Because we are subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, natural resources and worker health and safety, we may face significant liabilities or compliance costs in the future. Our operations and properties are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to protection of the environment, natural resources and worker health and safety, including laws and regulations governing and creating liability relating to, the management, storage and disposal of hazardous materials, asbestos, petroleum products and other regulated materials. We also are subject to environmental laws and regulations governing air emissions from our fleets of vehicles. As a result, we face several risks, including the following: • Under certain environmental laws, we could be held liable, jointly and severally and without regard to fault, for the costs of investigating and remediating any actual or threatened environmental contamination at currently and formerly owned or operated properties, and those of our predecessors, and for contamination associated with disposal by us or our predecessors of hazardous materials at third party disposal sites. Hazardous materials may have been released at certain current or formerly owned properties as a result of historic operations. • The presence of contamination can adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to sell any such affected property or to use it as collateral. • We could be held responsible for third party property damage claims, personal injury claims or natural resource damage claims relating to any such contamination. • The cost of complying with existing environmental requirements could be significant. • Adoption of new environmental laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations or their interpretations could result in significant compliance costs or as yet identified environmental liabilities. • Future acquisitions of businesses or properties subject to environmental requirements or affected by environmental contamination could require us to incur substantial costs relating to such matters. • In addition, environmental laws regulating wetlands, endangered species and other land use and natural resource issues may increase costs associated with future business or expansion opportunities, delay, alter or interfere with such plans, or otherwise adversely affect such plans. As a result of the above, we may face significant liabilities and compliance costs in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 