Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to our Business and the Market Environment If we fail to successfully integrate with Hindalco, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. On May 15, 2007, we were acquired by Hindalco, Asia’s largest integrated primary producer of aluminium based in Mumbai, India. We face significant administrative and operational challenges in relation to the acquisition. The integration of the operations of Novelis and Hindalco involves alignment of corporate cultures, management philosophies, strategic plans and policies. Achieving the anticipated benefits of our business combination will depend in part upon our ability to address the above issues in an efficient and effective manner. The integration of the two businesses which have previously operated separately faces significant challenges such as, but not limited to: 1. Alignment with Hindalco’s management policies including, but not limited to, internal controls, risk management policies, management information systems, capital expenditure policies, corporate governance policies and reporting procedures 2. The need to coordinate geographically dispersed organizations and integrate different corporate cultures and management philosophies. 3. Integration of information technology and financial control systems 4. Retention, hiring and training of our key personnel. Certain of our customers are significant to our revenues, and we could be adversely affected by changes in the business or financial condition of these significant customers or by the loss of their business. Our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 45%, 47%, and 43% of our total net sales for the period May 16, 2007 through March, 31, 2008; April 1, 2007 to May 15, 2007; and for the three months ended March 31, 2007, respectively, with Rexam Plc and its affiliates representing approximately 15.3%, 13.5%, and 15.5% of our total net sales in the respective periods. A significant downturn in the business or financial condition of our significant customers could materially adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, if our existing relationships with significant customers materially deteriorate or are terminated in the future, and we are not successful in replacing business lost from such customers, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Some of the longer term contracts under which we supply our customers, including under umbrella agreements such as those described under “Item 1. Business — Our Customers,” are subject to renewal, renegotiation or re-pricing at periodic intervals or upon changes in competitive supply conditions. Our failure to successfully renew, renegotiate or re-price such agreements could result in a reduction or loss in customer purchase volume or revenue, and if we are not successful in replacing business lost from such customers, our results of operations could be adversely affected. The markets in which we operate are competitive and customers may seek to consolidate supplier relationships or change suppliers to obtain cost savings and other benefits. 26 Table of Contents Our profitability could be adversely affected by our inability to pass through metal price increases due to metal price ceilings in certain of our sales contracts. Prices for metal are volatile, have recently been impacted by structural changes in the market, and may increase from time to time. Nearly all of our products have a price structure with two components: (i) a pass-through aluminum price based on the LME plus local market premiums and (ii) a “conversion premium” price based on the conversion cost to produce the rolled product and the competitive market conditions for that product. Sales contracts representing approximately 10% of our total fiscal 2008 shipments provide for a ceiling over which metal prices cannot contractually be passed through to certain customers, unless adjusted. This negatively impacts our margins when the price we pay for metal is above the ceiling price contained in these contracts. During the twelve months ended March 31, 2008 and 2007; December 31, 2006 and 2005, we were unable to pass through approximately $230 million and $460 million; $475 million and $75 million, respectively, of metal purchase costs associated with sales under theses contracts. We calculate and report this difference to be approximately the difference between the quoted purchase price on the LME (adjusted for any local premiums and for any price lag associated with purchasing or processing time) and the metal price ceiling in our contracts. Cash flows from operations are negatively impacted by the same amounts, adjusted for any timing difference between customer receipts and vendor payments, and offset partially by reduced income taxes. Our exposure to metal price ceilings approximates 8% of estimated total shipments for the fiscal year 2009. Based on a March 31, 2008 aluminum price of $2,935 per tonne, and our best estimate of a range of shipment volumes, we estimate that we will be unable to pass through aluminum purchase costs of approximately $286 — $312 million in fiscal 2009 and $215 — $233 million in the aggregate thereafter. Our efforts to mitigate risk from our metal price ceiling contracts may not be effective. We employ three strategies to mitigate our risk of rising metal prices that we cannot pass through to certain customers due to metal price ceilings. First, we maximize the amount of our internally supplied metal inputs from our smelting, refining and mining operations in Brazil. Second, we rely on the output from our recycling operations which utilize used beverage cans (UBCs). Both of these sources of aluminum supply have historically provided a benefit as these sources of metal are typically less expensive than purchasing aluminum from third party suppliers. We refer to these two sources as our internal hedges. Beyond our internal hedges described above, our third strategy to mitigate the risk of loss or reduced profitability associated with the metal price ceilings is to purchase derivative instruments on projected aluminum volume requirements above our assumed internal hedge position. We currently purchase forward derivative instruments to hedge our exposure to further metal price increases. Our results can be negatively impacted by timing differences between the prices we pay under purchase contracts and metal prices we charge our customers. In some of our contracts there is a timing difference between the metal prices we pay under our purchase contracts and the metal prices we charge our customers. As a result, changes in metal prices impact our results, since during such periods we bear the additional cost or benefit of metal price changes, which could have a material effect on our profitability. Our operations consume energy and our profitability may decline if energy costs were to rise, or if our energy supplies were interrupted. We consume substantial amounts of energy in our rolling operations, our cast house operations and our Brazilian smelting operations. The factors that affect our energy costs and supply reliability tend to be specific to each of our facilities. A number of factors could materially adversely affect our energy position including: • increases in costs of natural gas; • significant increases in costs of supplied electricity or fuel oil related to transportation; 27 Table of Contents • interruptions in energy supply due to equipment failure or other causes; and • the inability to extend energy supply contracts upon expiration on economical terms. If energy costs were to rise, or if energy supplies or supply arrangements were disrupted, our profitability could decline. We may not have sufficient cash to repay indebtedness and we may be limited in our ability to access financing for future capital requirements, which may prevent us from increasing our manufacturing capability, improving our technology or addressing any gaps in our product offerings. Although historically our cash flow from operations has been sufficient to repay indebtedness, satisfy working capital requirements and fund capital expenditure and research and development requirements, in the future we may need to incur additional debt or issue equity in order to fund these requirements as well as to make acquisitions and other investments. To the extent we are unable to raise new capital, we may be unable to increase our manufacturing capability, improve our technology or address any gaps in our product offerings. If we raise funds through the issuance of debt or equity, any debt securities or preferred shares issued may have rights and preferences and privileges senior to those of our common shares. The terms of the debt securities may impose restrictions on our operations that have an adverse impact on our financial condition. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business and therefore make it more difficult for us to fulfill our obligations under our New Credit Facilities and our Senior Notes. On July 6, 2007, we entered into new senior secured credit (New Credit Facilities) providing for aggregate borrowings of up to $1.76 billion. The New Credit Facilities consist of (1) a $960 million seven-year Term Loan facility (Term Loan facility) and (2) an $800 million five year multi-currency asset-based revolving credit line and letter of credit facility (ABL facility). As of March 31, 2008, we had total indebtedness of $2.7 billion, including our $1.4 billion of senior unsecured debt securities (Senior Notes) (excluding unamortized fair value adjustments recorded as a result of the Arrangement). Our substantial indebtedness and interest expense could have important consequences to our Company and holders of our Senior Notes, including: • limiting our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, execution of our growth strategy, or other general corporate purposes; • limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to service the debt; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage as compared to our competitors that have less leverage; • limiting our ability to capitalize on business opportunities and to react to competitive pressures and adverse changes in government regulation; • limiting our ability or increasing the costs to refinance indebtedness; and • limiting our ability to enter into marketing, hedging, optimization and trading transactions by reducing the number of counterparties with whom we can enter into such transactions as well as the volume of those transactions. The covenants in our New Credit Facilities and the indenture governing our Senior Notes impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. The New Credit Facilities and the indenture governing the Senior Notes impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries, among other things, to: • incur additional debt and provide additional guarantees; 28 Table of Contents • pay dividends beyond certain amounts and make other restricted payments; • create or permit certain liens; • make certain asset sales; • use the proceeds from the sales of assets and subsidiary stock; • create or permit restrictions on the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to us; • engage in certain transactions with affiliates; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • designate subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries; and • consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets or the assets of our restricted subsidiaries. The New Credit Facilities also contains various affirmative covenants, with which we are required to comply. Although we currently expect to comply with these covenants, we may be unable to comply with these covenants in the future. If we do not comply with these covenants and are unable to obtain waivers from our lenders, we would be unable to make additional borrowings under these facilities, our indebtedness under these agreements would be in default and could be accelerated by our lenders and could cause a cross-default under our other indebtedness, including our Senior Notes. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not be able to repay our indebtedness or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. In addition, if we incur additional debt in the future, we may be subject to additional covenants, which may be more restrictive than those that we are subject to now. A deterioration of our financial position or a downgrade of our ratings by a credit rating agency could increase our borrowing costs and our business relationships could be adversely affected. A deterioration of our financial position or a downgrade of our ratings for any reason could increase our borrowing costs and have an adverse effect on our business relationships with customers and suppliers. From time to time, we enter into various forms of hedging activities against currency or metal price fluctuations and trade metal contracts on the LME. Financial strength and credit ratings are important to the pricing of these hedging and trading activities. As a result, any downgrade of our credit ratings may make it more costly for us to engage in these activities, and changes to our level of indebtedness may make it more costly for us to engage in these activities in the future. Adverse changes in currency exchange rates could negatively affect our financial results and the competitiveness of our aluminum rolled products relative to other materials. Our businesses and operations are exposed to the effects of changes in the exchange rates of the U.S. dollar, the euro, the British pound, the Brazilian real, the Canadian dollar, the Korean won and other currencies. We have implemented a hedging policy that attempts to manage currency exchange rate risks to an acceptable level based on our management’s judgment of the appropriate trade-off between risk, opportunity and cost; however, this hedging policy may not successfully or completely eliminate the effects of currency exchange rate fluctuations which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We prepare our consolidated and combined financial statements in U.S. dollars, but a portion of our earnings and expenditures are denominated in other currencies, primarily the euro, the Korean won and the Brazilian real. Changes in exchange rates will result in increases or decreases in our reported costs and earnings, and may also affect the book value of our assets located outside the U.S. 29 Table of Contents Most of our facilities are staffed by a unionized workforce, and union disputes and other employee relations issues could materially adversely affect our financial results. Approximately three-quarters of our employees are represented by labor unions under a large number of collective bargaining agreements with varying durations and expiration dates. We may not be able to satisfactorily renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements when they expire. In addition, existing collective bargaining agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage at our facilities in the future, and any such work stoppage could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Our operations have been and will continue to be exposed to various business and other risks, changes in conditions and events beyond our control in countries where we have operations or sell products. We are, and will continue to be, subject to financial, political, economic and business risks in connection with our global operations. We have made investments and carry on production activities in various emerging markets, including Brazil, Korea and Malaysia, and we market our products in these countries, as well as China and certain other countries in Asia, the Middle East and emerging markets in South America. While we anticipate higher growth or attractive production opportunities from these emerging markets, they also present a higher degree of risk than more developed markets. In addition to the business risks inherent in developing and servicing new markets, economic conditions may be more volatile, legal and regulatory systems less developed and predictable, and the possibility of various types of adverse governmental action more pronounced. In addition, inflation, fluctuations in currency and interest rates, competitive factors, civil unrest and labor problems could affect our revenues, expenses and results of operations. Our operations could also be adversely affected by acts of war, terrorism or the threat of any of these events as well as government actions such as controls on imports, exports and prices, tariffs, new forms of taxation, or changes in fiscal regimes and increased government regulation in the countries in which we operate or service customers. Unexpected or uncontrollable events or circumstances in any of these markets could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We could be adversely affected by disruptions of our operations. Breakdown of equipment or other events, including catastrophic events such as war or natural disasters, leading to production interruptions in our plants could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Further, because many of our customers are, to varying degrees, dependent on planned deliveries from our plants, those customers that have to reschedule their own production due to our missed deliveries could pursue financial claims against us. We may incur costs to correct any of these problems, in addition to facing claims from customers. Further, our reputation among actual and potential customers may be harmed, resulting in a loss of business. While we maintain insurance policies covering, among other things, physical damage, business interruptions and product liability, these policies may not cover all of our losses. We may not be able to successfully develop and implement new technology initiatives in a timely manner. We have invested in, and are involved with, a number of technology and process initiatives. Several technical aspects of these initiatives are still unproven and the eventual commercial outcomes cannot be assessed with any certainty. Even if we are successful with these initiatives, we may not be able to deploy them in a timely fashion. Accordingly, the costs and benefits from our investments in new technologies and the consequent effects on our financial results may vary from present expectations. Loss of our key management and other personnel, or an inability to attract such management and other personnel, could impact our business. We depend on our senior executive officers and other key personnel to run our business. The loss of any of these officers or other key personnel could materially adversely affect our operations. Competition for qualified employees among companies that rely heavily on engineering and technology is intense, and the loss of qualified employees or an inability to attract, retain and motivate additional highly skilled employees 30 Table of Contents required for the operation and expansion of our business could hinder our ability to improve manufacturing operations, conduct research activities successfully and develop marketable products. Past and future acquisitions or divestitures may adversely affect our financial condition. Historically, we have grown partly through the acquisition of other businesses, including businesses acquired by Alcan in its 2000 acquisition of the Alusuisse Group Ltd. and its 2003 acquisition of Pechiney, both of which were integrated aluminum companies. As part of our strategy for growth, we may continue to pursue acquisitions, divestitures or strategic alliances, which may not be completed or, if completed, may not be ultimately beneficial to us. There are numerous risks commonly encountered in business combinations, including the risk that we may not be able to complete a transaction that has been announced, effectively integrate businesses acquired or generate the cost savings and synergies anticipated. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We could be required to make unexpected contributions to our defined benefit pension plans as a result of adverse changes in interest rates and the capital markets. Most of our pension obligations relate to funded defined benefit pension plans for our employees in the U.S., the U.K. and Canada, unfunded pension benefits in Germany, and lump sum indemnities payable to our employees in France, Italy, Korea and Malaysia upon retirement or termination. Our pension plan assets consist primarily of listed stocks and bonds. Our estimates of liabilities and expenses for pensions and other postretirement benefits incorporate a number of assumptions, including expected long-term rates of return on plan assets and interest rates used to discount future benefits. Our results of operations, liquidity or shareholders’ equity in a particular period could be adversely affected by capital market returns that are less than their assumed long-term rate of return or a decline of the rate used to discount future benefits. If the assets of our pension plans do not achieve assumed investment returns for any period, such deficiency could result in one or more charges against our earnings for that period. In addition, changing economic conditions, poor pension investment returns or other factors may require us to make unexpected cash contributions to the pension plans in the future, preventing the use of such cash for other purposes. We face risks relating to certain joint ventures and subsidiaries that we do not entirely control. Our ability to generate cash from these entities may be more restricted than if such entities were wholly-owned subsidiaries. Some of our activities are, and will in the future be, conducted through entities that we do not entirely control or wholly own. These entities include our Norf, Germany and Logan, Kentucky joint ventures, as well as our majority-owned Korean and Malaysian subsidiaries. Our Malaysian subsidiary is a public company whose shares are listed for trading on the Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad. Under the governing documents or agreements of, securities laws applicable to or stock exchange listing rules relative to certain of these joint ventures and subsidiaries, our ability to fully control certain operational matters may be limited. With respect to Logan, our joint venture partner, Arco Aluminum Inc., has filed a complaint seeking to resolve a perceived dispute over management and control of the joint venture following Hindalco’s acquisition of Novelis. In addition, we do not solely determine certain key matters, such as the timing and amount of cash distributions from these entities. As a result, our ability to generate cash from these entities may be more restricted than if they were wholly-owned entities. Risks Related to Operating Our Business Following Our Spin-off from Alcan Our agreements with Alcan do not reflect the same terms and conditions to which two unaffiliated parties might have agreed. The allocation of assets, liabilities, rights, indemnifications and other obligations between Alcan and us under the separation and ancillary agreements we entered into with Alcan do not reflect what two unaffiliated parties might have otherwise agreed. Had these agreements been negotiated with unaffiliated third parties, their terms may have been more favorable, or less favorable, to us. 31 Table of Contents We have supply agreements with Alcan for a portion of our raw materials requirements. If Alcan is unable to deliver sufficient quantities of these materials or if it terminates these agreements, our ability to manufacture products on a timely basis could be adversely affected. The manufacture of our products requires sheet ingot that has historically been, in part, supplied by Alcan. For the year ended March 31, 2008, we purchased the majority of our third party sheet ingot requirements from Alcan’s primary metal group. In connection with the spin-off, we entered into metal supply agreements with Alcan upon terms and conditions substantially similar to market terms and conditions for the continued purchase of sheet ingot from Alcan, which were amended in March 2008. If Alcan is unable to deliver sufficient quantities of this material on a timely basis or if Alcan terminates one or more of these agreements, our production may be disrupted and our net sales and profitability could be materially adversely affected. Although aluminum is traded on the world markets, developing alternative suppliers for that portion of our raw material requirements we expect to be supplied by Alcan could be time consuming and expensive. Our continuous casting operations at our Saguenay Works, Canada facility depend upon a local supply of molten aluminum from Alcan. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008, Alcan’s primary metal group supplied approximately 179kt of such material to us, representing most of the molten aluminum used at Saguenay Works. In connection with the spin-off, we entered into a metal supply agreement on terms determined primarily by Alcan for the continued purchase of molten aluminum from Alcan. If this supply were to be disrupted, our Saguenay Works production could be interrupted and our net sales and profitability materially adversely affected. We may lose key rights if a change in control of our voting shares were to occur. Our separation agreement with Alcan provides that if we experience a change in control in our voting shares during the five years following the spin-off and if the entity acquiring control does not refrain from using the Novelis assets to compete against Alcan in the plate and aerospace products markets, Alcan may terminate any or all of certain agreements we currently have with Alcan. Hindalco delivered the requisite non-compete agreement to Alcan on June 14, 2007, following its acquisition of our common shares. However, if Hindalco were to sell its controlling interest in Novelis before January 6, 2010, a new acquirer would be required to provide a similar agreement. The termination of any of these agreements could deprive any potential acquirer of certain services, resources or rights necessary to the conduct of our business. Replacement of these assets could be difficult or impossible, resulting in a material adverse effect on our business operations, net sales and profitability. In addition, the potential termination of these agreements could prevent us from entering into future business transactions such as acquisitions or joint ventures at terms favorable to us or at all. We could incur significant tax liability, or be liable to Alcan, if certain transactions occur which violate tax-free spin-off rules. Under Section 55 of the Income Tax Act (Canada), we and/or Alcan will recognize a taxable gain on our spin-off from Alcan if, among other specified circumstances, (1) within three years of our spin-off from Alcan, we engage in a subsequent spin-off or split-up transaction under Section 55; (2) a shareholder who (together with non-arm’s length persons and certain other persons) owns 10% or more of our common shares or Alcan common shares, disposes to a person unrelated to such shareholder of any such shares (or property that derives 10% or more of its value from such shares or property substituted therefore) as part of the series of transactions which includes our spin-off from Alcan; (3) there is a change of control of us or of Alcan that is part of the series of transactions that includes our spin-off from Alcan; (4) we sell to a person unrelated to us (otherwise than in the ordinary course of operations) as part of the series of transactions that includes our spin-off from Alcan, property acquired in our spin-off from Alcan that has a value greater than 10% of the value of all property received in the spin-off from Alcan; (5) within three years of our spin-off from Alcan, Alcan completes a split-up (but not spin-off) transaction under Section 55; (6) Alcan made certain acquisitions of property before and in contemplation of our spin-off from Alcan; (7) certain shareholders of Alcan and certain other persons acquired shares of Alcan (other than in specified permitted transactions) in contemplation 32 Table of Contents of our spin-off from Alcan or (8) Alcan sells to a person unrelated to it (otherwise than in the ordinary course of operations) as part of the series of transactions or events which includes our spin-off from Alcan, property retained by Alcan on the spin-off that has value greater than 10% of the value of all property retained by Alcan on our spin-off from Alcan. We would generally be required to indemnify Alcan for tax liabilities incurred by Alcan under the tax sharing and disaffiliation agreement if Alcan’s tax liability arose because of (i) a breach of our representations, warranties or covenants in the tax sharing and disaffiliation agreement, (ii) certain acts or omissions by us (such as a transaction described in (1) above), or (iii) an acquisition of control of us. Alcan would generally be required to indemnify us for tax under the tax sharing and disaffiliation agreement if our tax liability arose because of (i) a breach of Alcan’s representations, warranties or covenants in the tax sharing and disaffiliation agreement, or (ii) certain acts or omissions by Alcan (such as a transaction described in (5) above). These liabilities and the related indemnity payments could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We may be required to satisfy certain indemnification obligations to Alcan, or may not be able to collect on indemnification rights from Alcan. In connection with the spin-off, we and Alcan agreed to indemnify each other for certain liabilities and obligations related to, in the case of our indemnity, the business transferred to us, and in the case of Alcan’s indemnity, the business retained by Alcan. These indemnification obligations could be significant. We cannot determine whether we will have to indemnify Alcan for any substantial obligations in the future or the outcome of any disputes over spin-off matters. We also cannot be assured that if Alcan has to indemnify us for any substantial obligations, Alcan will be able to satisfy those obligations. We may have potential business conflicts of interest with Alcan with respect to our past and ongoing relationships that could harm our business operations. A number of our commercial arrangements with Alcan that existed prior to the spin-off transaction, our spin-off arrangements and our post-spin-off commercial agreements with Alcan could be the subject of differing interpretation and disagreement in the future. These agreements may be resolved in a manner different from the manner in which disputes were resolved when we were part of the Alcan group. This could in turn affect our relationship with Alcan and ultimately harm our business operations. Our agreement not to compete with Alcan in certain end-use markets may hinder our ability to take advantage of new business opportunities. In connection with the spin-off, we agreed not to compete with Alcan for a period of five years from the spin-off date in the manufacture, production and sale of certain products for use in the plate and aerospace markets. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to pursue successfully new business opportunities, which could limit our potential sources of revenue and growth. See “Item 1. Business — Arrangements Between Novelis and Alcan — Separation Agreement.” Our historical financial information may not be representative of results we would have achieved as an independent company or our future results. The historical financial information in our combined financial statements prior to January 6, 2005 has been derived from Alcan’s consolidated financial statements and does not necessarily reflect what our results of operations, financial position or cash flows would have been had we been an independent company during the periods presented. For this reason, as well as the inherent uncertainties of our business, the historical financial information does not necessarily indicate what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows will be in the future. 33 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Industry We face significant price and other forms of competition from other aluminum rolled products producers, which could hurt our results of operations. Generally, the markets in which we operate are highly competitive. We compete primarily on the basis of our value proposition, including price, product quality, ability to meet customers’ specifications, range of products offered, lead times, technical support and customer service. Some of our competitors may benefit from greater capital resources, have more efficient technologies, or have lower raw material and energy costs and may be able to sustain longer periods of price competition. In addition, our competitive position within the global aluminum rolled products industry may be affected by, among other things, the recent trend toward consolidation among our competitors, exchange rate fluctuations that may make our products less competitive in relation to the products of companies based in other countries (despite the U.S. dollar-based input cost and the marginal costs of shipping) and economies of scale in purchasing, production and sales, which accrue to the benefit of some of our competitors. Increased competition could cause a reduction in our shipment volumes and profitability or increase our expenditures, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. The end-use markets for certain of our products are highly competitive and customers are willing to accept substitutes for our products. The end-use markets for certain aluminum rolled products are highly competitive. Aluminum competes with other materials, such as steel, plastics, composite materials and glass, among others, for various applications, including in beverage and food cans and automotive end-use applications. In the past, customers have demonstrated a willingness to substitute other materials for aluminum. For example, changes in consumer preferences in beverage containers have increased the use of polyethylene terephthalate plastic (PET plastic) containers and glass bottles in recent years. These trends may continue. The willingness of customers to accept substitutes for aluminum products could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. A downturn in the economy could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Certain end-use applications for aluminum rolled products, such as construction and industrial and transportation applications, experience demand cycles that are highly correlated to the general economic environment, which is sensitive to a number of factors outside our control. A recession or a slowing of the economy in any of the geographic segments in which we operate, including China where significant economic growth is expected, or a decrease in manufacturing activity in industries such as automotive, construction and packaging and consumer goods, could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We are not able to predict the timing, extent and duration of the economic cycles in the markets in which we operate. The seasonal nature of some of our customers’ industries could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. The construction industry and the consumption of beer and soda are sensitive to weather conditions and as a result, demand for aluminum rolled products in the construction industry and for can feedstock can be seasonal. Our quarterly financial results could fluctuate as a result of climatic changes, and a prolonged series of cold summers in the different regions in which we conduct our business could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We are subject to a broad range of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, and we may be exposed to substantial environmental, health and safety costs and liabilities. We are subject to a broad range of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. These laws and regulations impose increasingly stringent environmental, health and safety protection standards and permitting requirements regarding, among other things, air 34 Table of Contents emissions, wastewater storage, treatment and discharges, the use and handling of hazardous or toxic materials, waste disposal practices, and the remediation of environmental contamination and working conditions for our employees. Some environmental laws, such as Superfund and comparable laws in U.S. states and other jurisdictions worldwide, impose joint and several liability for the cost of environmental remediation, natural resource damages, third party claims, and other expenses, without regard to the fault or the legality of the original conduct, on those persons who contributed to the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. The costs of complying with these laws and regulations, including participation in assessments and remediation of contaminated sites and installation of pollution control facilities, have been, and in the future could be, significant. In addition, these laws and regulations may also result in substantial environmental liabilities associated with divested assets, third party locations and past activities. In certain instances, these costs and liabilities, as well as related action to be taken by us, could be accelerated or increased if we were to close, divest of or change the principal use of certain facilities with respect to which we may have environmental liabilities or remediation obligations. Currently, we are involved in a number of compliance efforts, remediation activities and legal proceedings concerning environmental matters, including certain activities and proceedings arising under Superfund and comparable laws in U.S. states and other jurisdictions worldwide. We have established reserves for environmental remediation activities and liabilities where appropriate. However, the cost of addressing environmental matters (including the timing of any charges related thereto) cannot be predicted with certainty, and these reserves may not ultimately be adequate, especially in light of potential changes in environmental conditions, changing interpretations of laws and regulations by regulators and courts, the discovery of previously unknown environmental conditions, the risk of governmental orders to carry out additional compliance on certain sites not initially included in remediation in progress, our potential liability to remediate sites for which provisions have not been previously established and the adoption of more stringent environmental laws. Such future developments could result in increased environmental costs and liabilities and could require significant capital expenditures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results. Furthermore, the failure to comply with our obligations under the environmental laws and regulations could subject us to administrative, civil or criminal penalties, obligations to pay damages or other costs, and injunctions or other orders, including orders to cease operations. In addition, the presence of environmental contamination at our properties could adversely affect our ability to sell property, receive full value for a property or use a property as collateral for a loan. Some of our current and potential operations are located or could be located in or near communities that may regard such operations as having a detrimental effect on their social and economic circumstances. Environmental laws typically provide for participation in permitting decisions, site remediation decisions and other matters. Concern about environmental justice issues may affect our operations. Should such community objections be presented to government officials, the consequences of such a development may have a material adverse impact upon the profitability or, in extreme cases, the viability of an operation. In addition, such developments may adversely affect our ability to expand or enter into new operations in such location or elsewhere and may also have an effect on the cost of our environmental remediation projects. We use a variety of hazardous materials and chemicals in our rolling processes, as well as in our smelting operations in Brazil and in connection with maintenance work on our manufacturing facilities. Because of the nature of these substances or related residues, we may be liable for certain costs, including, among others, costs for health-related claims or removal or re-treatment of such substances. Certain of our current and former facilities incorporate asbestos-containing materials, a hazardous substance that has been the subject of health-related claims for occupation exposure. In addition, although we have developed environmental, health and safety programs for our employees, including measures to reduce employee exposure to hazardous substances, and conduct regular assessments at our facilities, we are currently, and in the future may be, involved in claims and litigation filed on behalf of persons alleging injury predominantly as a result of occupational exposure to substances or other hazards at our current or former facilities. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of these claims and lawsuits due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury 35 Table of Contents litigation. If these claims and lawsuits, individually or in the aggregate, were finally resolved against us, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. We may be exposed to significant legal proceedings or investigations. From time to time, we are involved in, or the subject of, disputes, proceedings and investigations with respect to a variety of matters, including environmental, health and safety, product liability, employee, tax, personal injury, contractual and other matters as well as other disputes and proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business. Certain of these matters are discussed in the preceding risk factor and certain others are discussed below under “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” Any claims against us or any investigations involving us, whether meritorious or not, could be costly to defend or comply with and could divert management’s attention as well as operational resources. Any such dispute, litigation or investigation, whether currently pending or threatened or in the future, may have a material adverse effect on our financial results and cash flows. Product liability claims against us could result in significant costs or negatively impact our reputation and could adversely affect our business results and financial condition. We are sometimes exposed to warranty and product liability claims. There can be no assurance that we will not experience material product liability losses arising from such claims in the future and that these will not have a negative impact on our net sales and profitability. We generally maintain insurance against many product liability risks, but there can be no assurance that this coverage will be adequate for any liabilities ultimately incurred. In addition, there is no assurance that insurance will continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. A successful claim that exceeds our available insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 