Item 1A. Risk FactorsRisks Inherent in Our BusinessThe supply and demand for natural gas could be adversely affected by many factors outside of our control which could negatively affect us. Our success depends on the supply and demand for natural gas. The degree to which our business is impacted by changes in supply or demand varies. Our business can be negatively impacted by sustained downturns in supply and demand for natural gas, including reductions in our ability to renew contracts on favorable terms and to construct new infrastructure. One of the major factors that will impact natural gas demand will be the potential growth of the demand for natural gas in the power generation market, particularly driven by the speed and level of existing coal-fired power generation that is replaced with natural gas-fired power generation. One of the major factors impacting natural gas supplies has been the significant growth in unconventional sources such as shale plays. In addition, the supply and demand for natural gas for our business will depend on many other factors outside of our control, which include, among others: •adverse changes in general global economic conditions. The level and speed of the recovery from the recent recession remains uncertain and could impact the supply and demand for natural gas and our future rate of growth in our business;•adverse changes in domestic regulations that could impact the supply or demand for natural gas;•technological advancements that may drive further increases in production and reduction in costs of developing natural gas shales;•competition from imported LNG and Canadian supplies and alternate fuels;•increased prices of natural gas or NGLs that could negatively impact demand for these products;•increased costs to explore for, develop, produce, gather, process and transport natural gas or NGLs;•adoption of various energy efficiency and conservation measures; and•perceptions of customers on the availability and price volatility of our services, particularly customers' perceptions on the volatility of natural gas prices over the longer-term.If volatility and seasonality in the natural gas industry decrease, because of increased production capacity or otherwise, the demand for our services and the prices that we will be able to charge for those services may decline. In addition to volatility and seasonality, an extended period of high natural gas prices would increase the cost of acquiring base gas and likely place upward pressure on the costs of associated expansion activities. An extended period of low natural gas prices could adversely impact storage values for some period of time until market conditions adjust. These commodity price impacts could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we do not complete growth projects or make acquisitions, our future growth may be limited. Our business strategy depends on our ability to complete growth projects and make acquisitions from Inergy and third parties that result in an increase in cash generated from operations on a per unit basis (i.e., complete accretive transactions). However, Inergy (i) is entitled under the omnibus agreement to review, and has the first option on, any third-party acquisition opportunities presented to us or to Inergy, (ii) is not obligated to make acquisition opportunities available to us, (iii) is not restricted from competing with us, and (iv) may acquire, construct or dispose of natural gas or NGL facilities or other midstream assets in the future without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase or construct those assets. Moreover, we may be unable to complete successful, accretive growth projects or acquisitions for any of the following reasons: •we fail to identify attractive expansion or development projects or acquisition candidates that satisfy our economic and other criteria, or we are outbid for such opportunities by our competitors;•we cannot raise financing for such projects or acquisitions on economically acceptable terms;•we fail to secure adequate customer commitments to use the facilities to be developed, expanded or acquired; or•we cannot obtain governmental approvals or other rights, licenses or consents needed to complete such projects or acquisitions. 15Table of ContentsOur operations are subject to extensive regulation, and regulatory measures adopted by regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local regulatory authorities. For example, because we transport natural gas in interstate commerce and we store natural gas that is transported in interstate commerce, our natural gas storage and transportation facilities are subject to comprehensive regulation by the FERC under the Natural Gas Act. Federal regulation under the Natural Gas Act extends to such matters as: •rates, operating terms and conditions of service;•the form of tariffs governing service;•the types of services we may offer to our customers; •the certification and construction of new, or the expansion of existing, facilities;•the acquisition, extension, disposition or abandonment of facilities; •contracts for service between storage and transportation providers and their customers; •creditworthiness and credit support requirements; •the maintenance of accounts and records;•relationships among affiliated companies involved in certain aspects of the natural gas business;•the initiation and discontinuation of services; and •various other matters. Natural gas companies may not charge rates that, upon review by FERC, are found to be unjust and unreasonable or unduly discriminatory. Existing interstate transportation and storage rates may be challenged by complaint and are subject to prospective change by FERC. Additionally, rate increases proposed by a regulated pipeline or storage provider may be challenged and such increases may ultimately be rejected by FERC. We currently hold authority from FERC to charge and collect (i) market-based rates for interstate storage services provided at the Stagecoach, Thomas Corners and Seneca Lake facilities and (ii) negotiated rates for interstate transportation services provided by our North-South Facilities and our MARC I Pipeline. FERC's “market-based rate” policy allows regulated entities to charge rates different from, and in some cases, less than, those which would be permitted under traditional cost-of-service regulation. Among the sorts of changes in circumstances that could raise market power concerns would be an expansion of capacity, acquisitions or other changes in market dynamics. There can be no guarantee that we will be allowed to continue to operate under such rate structures for the remainder of those assets' operating lives. Any successful challenge against rates charged for our storage and transportation services, or our loss of market-based rate authority or negotiated rate authority, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions. Our market-based rate authority for our natural gas storage facilities may be subject to review and possible revocation if FERC determines that we have the ability to exercise market power in our market area. If we were to lose our ability to charge market-based rates, we would be required to file rates based on our cost of providing service, including a reasonable rate of return. Cost-of-service rates may be lower than our current market-based rates. There can be no assurance that FERC will continue to pursue its approach of pro-competitive policies as it considers matters such as pipeline rates and rules and policies that may affect rights of access to natural gas transportation capacity and transportation and storage facilities. Failure to comply with applicable regulations under the Natural Gas Act, the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978, the Pipeline Safety Act of 1968 and certain other laws, and with implementing regulations associated with these laws, could result in the imposition of administrative and criminal remedies and civil penalties of up to $1,000,000 per day, per violation. We may not be able to renew or replace expiring contracts. Our primary exposure to market risk occurs at the time our existing contracts expire and are subject to renegotiation and renewal. As of September 30, 2012, the weighted average remaining tenor of our existing portfolio of firm storage contracts is approximately 3.4 years. Customer contracts for 5.2 Bcf of natural gas firm storage service will expire in fiscal 2013. The extension or replacement of existing contracts depends on a number of factors beyond our control, including: •the macroeconomic factors affecting natural gas and NGL storage economics for our current and potential customers;•the level of existing and new competition to provide services to our markets;•the balance of supply and demand, on a short-term, seasonal and long-term basis, in our markets;•the extent to which the customers in our markets are willing to contract on a long-term basis; and•the effects of federal, state or local regulations on the contracting practices of our customers.16Table of ContentsAny failure to extend or replace a significant portion of our existing contracts, or extending or replacing them at unfavorable or lower rates, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions.We depend on third-party pipelines connected to our storage facilities and pipelines, and we could be negatively impacted by circumstances beyond our control that temporarily or permanently interrupt the operation of such third-party pipelines. We depend on the continued operation of third-party pipelines that provide delivery options to and from our storage facilities, and to which our transportation pipelines are connected. For example, our Stagecoach facility depends on TGP's 300 Line and Millennium, currently the only interstate pipelines to which it is directly interconnected. These pipelines are owned by parties not affiliated with us. Any temporary or permanent interruption at any key pipeline or other interconnect point with our storage facilities that causes a material reduction in the volume of storage or transportation services provided by us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions. In addition, the rates charged by the interconnected pipelines for transportation to and from our facilities and pipelines affect the utilization and value of our services. Significant changes in the rates charged by these pipelines or the rates charged by other pipelines with which the interconnected pipelines compete could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions. Expanding our business by developing new midstream assets subjects us to risks. Our growth projects are an integral part of our business strategy. The development and construction of storage facilities, pipelines, and truck/rail terminals involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties beyond our control and may require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital. When we undertake these projects, they may not be completed on schedule, at the budgeted cost or at all. Moreover, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. For instance, if we build a new midstream asset, the construction will occur over an extended period of time, and we will not receive material increases in revenues until the project is placed in service. Moreover, we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production and/or demand in a region in which such growth does not materialize. As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough throughput to achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions. Certain of our growth projects must receive regulatory approval from federal and state authorities prior to construction, such as our Watkins Glen NGL storage development project. The approval process for storage and transportation projects located in the Northeast has become increasingly challenging, due in part to state and local concerns related to unregulated exploration and production and gathering activities in new production areas (including the Marcellus shale play). We cannot guarantee such authorization will be granted or, if granted, that such authorization will be free of burdensome or expensive conditions. Acquisitions or growth projects that we complete may not perform as anticipated and could result in a reduction of our cash available for distribution. Even if we complete projects or acquisitions that we believe will be accretive, such projects or acquisitions may nevertheless reduce our cash available for distribution due to the following factors: •mistaken assumptions about storage capacity, deliverability, base gas needs, geological integrity, revenues, synergies, costs (including operating and administrative, capital, debt and equity costs), customer demand, growth potential, assumed liabilities and other factors;•the failure to receive cash flows from an growth project or newly acquired asset due to delays in the commencement of operations for any reason;•unforeseen operational issues or the realization of liabilities that were not known to us at the time the acquisition or growth project was completed; •the inability to attract new customers or retain acquired customers to the extent assumed in connection with the acquisition or growth project; •the failure to successfully integrate growth projects or acquired assets or businesses into our operations and/or the loss of key employees; or •the impact of regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties that are beyond our control. 17Table of ContentsIf we complete future growth projects or acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and you will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of these funds and other resources. If any growth projects or acquisitions we ultimately complete are not accretive to our cash available for distribution, our ability to make distributions may be reduced. If we are unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms to fund expansions of our asset base, our ability to pay cash distributions may be diminished or our financial leverage could increase. In order to expand our asset base, we will need to make expansion capital expenditures. If we do not make sufficient or effective expansion capital expenditures, we will be unable to expand our business operations and may be unable to raise the level of our cash distributions. To fund our expansion capital expenditures, we will be required to use cash from our operations or incur borrowings or sell additional common units or other limited partner interests. Such uses of cash from operations will reduce cash available for distribution to our common unitholders. Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for future equity or debt offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering and the covenants in our debt agreements, as well as by general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Even if we are successful in obtaining the necessary funds, the terms of such financings could limit our ability to pay distributions to our common unitholders. In addition, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, and issuing additional limited partner interests may result in significant common unitholder dilution and increase the aggregate amount of cash required to maintain the then-current distribution rate, which could materially decrease our ability to pay distributions at the then-current distribution rate. Moreover, we do not have any commitment with any of our affiliates, including Inergy, to fund our cash flow deficits or provide other direct or indirect financial assistance to us. Increased competition could have a negative impact on the demand for our services, which could adversely affect our financial results. We compete primarily with other providers of storage and transportation services that own or operate natural gas and NGL storage facilities and natural gas pipelines. Such competitors include independent storage developers and operators, LDCs, interstate and intrastate natural gas transmission companies with storage facilities connected to their pipelines, and other midstream companies. Some of our competitors have greater financial, managerial and other resources than we do and control substantially more storage and transportation capacity than we do. In addition, our customers may develop their own storage and transportation assets in lieu of using ours. FERC has adopted a policy that favors authorization of new storage projects, and there are numerous natural gas storage options in the Northeast geographic market. Pending and future construction projects, if and when brought on-line, may also compete with our natural gas storage operations. Such projects may include FERC-certificated storage expansions and greenfield construction projects. We also compete with the numerous alternatives to storage available to customers, including pipeline balancing/no-notice services, seasonal/swing services provided by pipelines and marketers and on-system LNG facilities. Natural gas as a fuel also competes with other forms of energy available to end-users, including electricity, coal and liquid fuels. Increased demand for such forms of energy at the expense of natural gas could lead to a reduction in demand for natural gas storage and transportation services. If our competitors substantially increase the resources they devote to the development and marketing of competitive services or substantially decrease the prices at which they offer their services, we may be unable to compete effectively. Some of these competitors may expand or construct new storage or transportation assets that would create additional competition for us. The expansion of storage or transportation assets and construction activities of our competitors could result in storage or transportation capacity in excess of actual demand, which could reduce the demand for our services, and potentially reduce the rates that we receive for our services. All of these competitive pressures could make it more difficult for us to retain our existing customers and/or attract new customers as we seek to expand our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions. In addition, competition could intensify the negative impact of factors that decrease demand for natural gas and NGL storage and transportation in our markets, such as adverse economic conditions, weather, higher fuel costs and taxes or other governmental or regulatory actions that directly or indirectly increase the cost or limit the use of natural gas. 18Table of ContentsWe expect to derive a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of customers, and the loss of one or more of these customers could result in a significant loss of revenues and cash flow. We expect to derive a significant portion of our revenues and cash flow from a limited number of customers. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012, ConEd accounted for approximately 14% of our total revenue. The loss, nonpayment, nonperformance or impaired creditworthiness of one of our large customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions. We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers in the ordinary course of our business. We extend credit to our customers as a normal part of our business. As a result, we are exposed to the risk of loss resulting from the nonpayment and/or nonperformance of our customers. While we have established credit policies that include assessing the creditworthiness of our customers as permitted by our FERC-approved gas tariffs and requiring appropriate terms or credit support from them based on the results of such assessments, there can be no assurance that we have adequately assessed the creditworthiness of our existing or future customers or that there will not be unanticipated deterioration in their creditworthiness. Resulting nonpayment and/or nonperformance by our customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions. Additionally, in instances where we loan natural gas to third parties, the magnitude of our credit risk is significantly increased, as the failure of the third party to return the loaned volumes would result in losses equal to the full value of the loaned natural gas rather than, in the case of firm storage or hub services contracts, losses equal to fees on volumes nominated for injection or withdrawal. The fees charged by us to third parties under storage and transportation agreements may not escalate sufficiently to cover increases in costs, and those agreements may be suspended in some circumstances. Our costs may increase at a rate greater than the rate that the fees we charge to third parties increase pursuant to our contracts with them. In addition, some third parties' obligations under their agreements with us may be permanently or temporarily reduced upon the occurrence of certain events, some of which are beyond our control, including force majeure events wherein the supply of natural gas is curtailed or cut off. Force majeure events include (but are not limited to) revolutions, wars, acts of enemies, embargoes, import or export restrictions, strikes, lockouts, fires, storms, floods, acts of God, explosions, mechanical or physical failures of our equipment or facilities or those of third parties. If the escalation of fees is insufficient to cover increased costs or if any third party suspends or terminates its contracts with us, our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions could be materially adversely affected. Our business involves many hazards and risks, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. Our operations are subject to all of the risks and hazards inherent in the natural gas and NGL storage and transportation businesses, including:•subsidence of the geological structures where we store natural gas and NGLs; •risks and hazards inherent in drilling operations associated with the development of new caverns; •problems maintaining the wellbores and related equipment and facilities that form a part of the infrastructure that is critical to the operation of our storage facilities; •damage to our facilities and properties caused by hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, fires and other natural disasters, acts of terrorism, third parties, equipment or material failures, pipeline or vessel ruptures or corrosion, explosions and other incidents;•leaks, migrations or losses of natural gas and NGLs; •collapse of storage caverns;•operator error;•environmental pollution or other environmental issues, including drinking water contamination associated with our raw water or water disposal wells; and •other industry hazards that could result in the suspension of operations. These risks could result in substantial losses due to breaches of contractual commitments, personal injury and/or loss of life, damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage. These risks may also result in curtailment or suspension of our operations. A natural disaster or other hazard affecting the areas in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We are not fully insured against all risks inherent in our business. In addition, we are not insured against all environmental accidents that might occur, some of which may result in toxic tort claims. 19Table of ContentsIf a significant accident or event occurs for which we are not fully insured, it could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions. Furthermore, we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies may substantially increase. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. Additionally, we may be unable to recover from prior owners of our assets, pursuant to our indemnification rights, for potential environmental liabilities.As a result of these risks and hazards, we have been, and will likely be, a defendant in legal proceedings and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. We maintain insurance policies with insurers in such amounts and with such coverages and deductibles as we believe are reasonable and prudent. However, our insurance may not be adequate to protect us from all material expenses related to potential future claims for personal injury and property damage. In addition, we share insurance coverage with Inergy, for which we reimburse Inergy pursuant to the terms of the omnibus agreement. To the extent Inergy experiences covered losses under the insurance policies, the limit of our coverage for potential losses may be decreased. Restrictions in our revolving credit facility could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions. We have a $600 million credit facility (expandable up to $750 million), with a maturity date in December 2016. Our revolving credit facility will be available to fund working capital and our growth projects, make acquisitions and for general partnership purposes. Our revolving credit facility contains various covenants and restrictive provisions that will limit our ability to, among other things: •incur additional debt;•make distributions on or redeem or repurchase units;•make certain investments and acquisitions; •incur or permit certain liens to exist; •enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates;•merge, consolidate or amalgamate with another company; and •transfer or otherwise dispose of assets. Furthermore, the revolving credit facility contains covenants requiring us to maintain certain financial ratios. For example, our revolving credit facility requires maintenance of a consolidated leverage ratio (as defined in our credit agreement) of not more than 5.00 to 1.00 and an interest coverage ratio (as defined in our credit agreement) of not less than 2.50 to 1.00. Borrowings under our revolving credit facility are secured by (i) pledges of the equity interests of, and guarantees by, substantially all of our existing and future subsidiaries, and (ii) liens on substantially all of our real and personal property. The provisions of our revolving credit facility may affect our ability to obtain future financing and pursue attractive business opportunities and our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions. In addition, a failure to comply with the provisions of our revolving credit facility could result in an event of default, which could enable our lenders, subject to the terms and conditions of the revolving credit facility, to declare any outstanding principal of that debt, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If the payment of any such debt is accelerated, our assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full, and the holders of our common units could experience a partial or total loss of their investment. Debt we incur in the future may limit our flexibility to obtain financing and to pursue other business opportunities. Our future level of debt could have important consequences to us, including the following:•our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; •our funds available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to common unitholders will be reduced by that portion of our cash flow required to make interest payments on our debt; •we may be more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and•our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions may be limited.20Table of ContentsOur ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service any future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets or seeking additional equity capital. We may not be able to effect any of these actions on satisfactory terms or at all. An unfavorable resolution of the Anadarko litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions. In June 2010, our predecessor, Inergy Midstream, LLC, and CNYOG entered into a letter of intent with Anadarko Petroleum Corporation ("Anadarko") which contemplated that, subject to certain conditions, Anadarko may exercise an option to acquire up to a 25% ownership interest in the MARC I Pipeline. On September 23, 2011, Anadarko filed a complaint against our predecessor and CNYOG in the Court of Common Pleas in Lycoming County, Pennsylvania (Cause No. 11-01697) alleging that (i) Anadarko had an option to acquire, and timely exercised its option to acquire, a 25% ownership interest in the MARC I Pipeline, (ii) we refused to enter into definitive agreements under which Anadarko would acquire a 25% interest in the pipeline and, by doing so, we breached the letter of intent, and (iii) by refusing to enter into definitive agreements, we breached a duty of good faith and fair dealing in connection with the letter of intent. Based on these allegations, Anadarko seeks various remedies, including specific performance of the letter of intent and monetary damages. We filed our answer to Anadarko's complaint in January 2012, and discovery is continuing. An unfavorable resolution of such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions. In addition, such litigation could divert the attention of management and resources in general from day-to-day operations. For further information regarding this lawsuit, please see Item 3 (Legal Proceedings) of this Part I.Our operations are subject to compliance with environmental and operational safety laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. Our operations are subject to stringent federal, regional, state and local laws and regulations governing health and safety aspects of our operations, the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. Such environmental laws and regulations impose numerous obligations that are applicable to our operations, including the acquisition of permits to conduct regulated activities, the incurrence of capital expenditures to comply with applicable legal requirements, the application of specific health and safety criteria addressing worker protections and the imposition of restrictions on the generation, handling, treatment, storage, disposal and transportation of materials and wastes. Failure to comply with such environmental laws and regulations can result in the assessment of substantial administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial liabilities and the issuance of injunctions restricting or prohibiting some or all of our activities. Certain environmental laws impose strict, joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where materials or wastes have been disposed or otherwise released. In the course of our operations, generated materials or wastes may have been spilled or released from properties owned or leased by us or on or under other locations where these materials or wastes have been taken for recycling or disposal. It is also possible that adoption of stricter environmental laws and regulations or more stringent interpretation of existing environmental laws and regulations in the future could result in additional costs or liabilities to us as well as the industry in general or otherwise adversely affect demand for our services and salt products. It is also possible that adoption of stricter environmental laws and regulations or more stringent interpretation of existing environmental laws and regulations in the future could result in additional costs or liabilities to us or our customers and also adversely affect demand for the natural gas, NGLs or salt products. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could result in increased operating and capital costs and reduced demand for our services. In December 2009, the EPA determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases (GHGs) present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. Based on these findings, the EPA has begun adopting and implementing regulations to restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. The EPA has adopted two sets of rules regulating GHG emissions under the Clean Air Act, one of which requires a reduction in emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles and the other of which regulates emissions of GHGs from certain large stationary sources, effective January 2, 2011, which could require greenhouse emission controls for those sources. The EPA has also adopted rules requiring the reporting of GHG emissions from specified large GHG emission sources on an annual basis, beginning in 2011 for 21Table of Contentsemissions occurring after January 1, 2010, as well as certain onshore oil and natural gas production, processing, transmission, storage and distribution facilities on an annual basis, beginning in 2012 for emissions occurring in 2011. In addition, the U.S. Congress has from time to time considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, and almost one-half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs primarily through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional GHG cap and trade programs. Most of these cap and trade programs work by requiring major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers of fuels, such as refineries and gas processing plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances. The number of allowances available for purchase is reduced each year in an effort to achieve the overall GHG emission reduction goal. The adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce emissions of GHGs could require us to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements. Any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, the oil and natural gas that is produced, which may decrease demand for our storage services. Consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of GHGs could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increases in interest rates could adversely impact demand for our storage capacity, our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes, and our ability to make cash distributions at our intended levels. There is a financing cost for our customers to store natural gas or NGLs in our storage facilities. That financing cost is impacted by the cost of capital or interest rate incurred by the customer in addition to the commodity cost of the natural gas or NGLs in inventory. Absent other factors, a higher financing cost adversely impacts the economics of storing natural gas or NGLs for future sale. As a result, a significant increase in interest rates could adversely affect the demand for our storage capacity independent of other market factors. In addition, interest rates on future credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. As with other yield-oriented securities, our common unit price is impacted by the level of our cash distributions and our implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our common units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on our common unit price, our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes, and our ability to make cash distributions at our intended levels.If we are unable to diversify our assets and geographic locations, our ability to make distributions to our common unitholders could be adversely affected. We rely solely on revenues generated from storage and transportation assets that we own, which are located exclusively in the Northeast region of the United States. Due to our lack of diversification in asset location and the storage-heavy nature of our existing asset base, an adverse development in these businesses or areas, including adverse developments due to catastrophic events, weather and decreases in demand for natural gas, could have a significantly greater impact on our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our common unitholders than if we maintained more diverse assets and locations. Our growth strategy includes acquiring entities with lines of business that are distinct and separate from our existing operations, which could subject us to additional business and operating risks.Consistent with our announced growth strategy and pending acquisition of Rangeland Energy, we may acquire assets that have operations in new and distinct lines of business from our existing operations. Integration of new business segments is a complex, costly and time-consuming process and may involve assets in which we have limited operating experience. Failure to timely and successfully integrate acquired entities' new lines of business with our existing operations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The difficulties of integrating new business segments with existing operations include, among other things:•operating distinct business segments that require different operating strategies and different managerial expertise;•the necessity of coordinating organizations, systems and facilities in different locations;•integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; and•consolidating corporate and administrative functions.22Table of ContentsIn addition, the diversion of our attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the integration of the new business segments, such as unanticipated liabilities or costs, could harm our existing business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects. Furthermore, new lines of business will subject us to additional business and operating risks, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.We may be unable to successfully integrate our acquisitions.One of our primary business strategies is to grow through acquisitions. There is no assurance that we will successfully integrate acquisitions into our operations, or that we will achieve the desired profitability from our acquisitions. Failure to successfully integrate these substantial acquisitions could adversely affect our operations. The difficulties of combining the acquired operations include, among other things: (i) operating a significantly larger organization; (ii) coordinating geographically disparate organizations, systems and facilities; (iii) integrating personnel from diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; (iv) consolidating corporate, technological and administrative functions; (v) integrating internal controls, compliance under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other corporate governance matters; (vi) the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; (vii) customer or key employee loss from the acquired businesses; and (viii) potential environmental or regulatory liabilities and title problems. In addition, we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from our acquisitions, such as cost-savings and revenue enhancements, for various reasons, including difficulties integrating operations and personnel, higher costs, unknown liabilities and fluctuations in markets.If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or prevent fraud, which would likely have a negative impact on the market price of our common units. We are subject to the public reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a publicly traded partnership. Our efforts to maintain our internal controls may not be successful, and we may be unable to maintain effective controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or to comply with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which we refer to as Section 404. For example, Section 404 requires us, among other things, to annually review and report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Any failure to develop, implement or maintain effective internal controls or to improve our internal controls could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Given the difficulties inherent in the design and operation of internal controls over financial reporting, we can provide no assurance as to our, or our independent registered public accounting firm's, conclusions about the effectiveness of our internal controls, and we may incur significant costs in our efforts to comply with Section 404. Ineffective internal controls will subject us to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of confidence in our reported financial information, which could have an adverse effect on our business and would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our common units.A change of control could result in us facing substantial repayment obligations under our credit facility.Our credit agreement contains provisions relating to change of control of our general partner and our partnership. If these provisions are triggered, our outstanding bank indebtedness may become due. In such an event, there is no assurance that we would be able to pay the indebtedness, in which case the lenders under our credit facility would have the right to foreclose on our assets, which would have a material adverse effect on us. There is no restriction on the ability of our general partners to enter into a transaction which would trigger the change of control provisions.Risks Inherent in an Investment in UsWe may not have sufficient cash from operations following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including reimbursements to our general partner and its affiliates, to enable us to pay quarterly distributions to our common unitholders. We may not have sufficient cash each quarter to continue payments consistent with the full amount of our initial quarterly distribution of $0.37 per unit, or $1.48 per unit per year. The amount of cash we can distribute on our common units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations and payments of fees and expenses. Before we pay any distributions on our common units, we will establish reserves and pay fees and expenses, including reimbursements to our general partner and its affiliates, including Inergy, for all expenses they incur and payments they make on our behalf. These amounts will include reimbursements for administrative costs, such as compensation expense for those persons who provide services necessary to run our business, and insurance expenses. These costs will reduce the amount of cash available to pay distributions to our common unitholders. 23Table of ContentsThe amount of cash we can distribute on our common units will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: •the rates we charge for storage and transportation services and the amount of services our customers purchase from us, which will be affected by, among other things, the overall balance between the supply of and demand for natural gas, governmental regulation of our rates and services, and our ability to obtain permits for growth projects;•force majeure events that damage our or third-party pipelines, facilities, related equipment and surrounding properties;•prevailing economic and market conditions;•governmental regulation, including changes in governmental regulation in our industry; and•changes in tax laws.In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: the level and timing of capital expenditures we make; the cost of acquisitions; our debt service requirements and other liabilities; fluctuations in our working capital needs; our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets; restrictions contained in our debt agreements; and the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner.Our partnership agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash, which could limit our ability to grow and make acquisitions. We expect that we will distribute all of our available cash to our common unitholders and will rely primarily upon external financing sources, including commercial bank borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. As a result, to the extent we are unable to finance growth externally, our cash distribution policy will significantly impair our ability to grow. In addition, because we distribute all of our available cash, our growth may not be as fast as that of businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent we issue additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level. There are be no limitations in our partnership agreement, or in our revolving credit facility, on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to the common units. The incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which, in turn, may impact the available cash that we have to distribute to our common unitholders.We may issue additional units without common unitholder approval, which would dilute existing common unitholder ownership interests. Our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional limited partner interests we may issue at any time without the approval of our common unitholders. The issuance of additional common units or other equity interests of equal or senior rank will have the following effects:•our existing common unitholders' proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; •the amount of cash available for distribution on each common unit may decrease; •the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; •the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding common unit may be diminished; and •the market price of the common units may decline.Holders of our common units have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its directors, which could reduce the price at which our common units will trade. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, our common unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management's decisions regarding our business. Our common unitholders will have no right on an annual or ongoing basis to elect our general partner or its board of directors. The board of directors of our general partner, including the independent directors, is chosen entirely by Inergy, as a result of it owning our general partner, and not by our common unitholders. Unlike publicly traded corporations, we will not conduct annual meetings of our common unitholders to elect directors or conduct other matters routinely conducted at annual meetings of stockholders of corporations. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price.24Table of ContentsCommon unitholders may have liability to repay distributions and in certain circumstances may be personally liable for the obligations of the partnership. Under certain circumstances, common unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act (the "Delaware Act"), we may not make a distribution to our common unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. A purchaser of units who becomes a limited partner is liable for the obligations of the transferring limited partner to make contributions to the partnership that are known to the purchaser of units at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from the partnership agreement. A purchaser of common units who becomes a limited partner is liable for the obligations of the transferring limited partner to make contributions to the partnership that are known to the purchaser of the common units at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from the partnership agreement. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. It may be determined that the right, or the exercise of the right by the limited partners as a group, to (i) remove or replace our general partner, (ii) approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or (iii) take other action under our partnership agreement constitutes “participation in the control” of our business. A limited partner that participates in the control of our business within the meaning of the Delaware Act may be held personally liable for our obligations under the laws of Delaware to the same extent as our general partner. This liability would extend to persons who transact business with us under the reasonable belief that the limited partner is a general partner. Neither our partnership agreement nor the Delaware Act specifically provides for legal recourse against our general partner if a limited partner were to lose limited liability through any fault of our general partner. The amount of cash we have available for distribution to common unitholders depends primarily on our cash flow and not solely on profitability, which may prevent us from making cash distributions during periods when we record net income. The amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flow, including cash flow from reserves and working capital or other borrowings, and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may pay cash distributions during periods when we record net losses for financial accounting purposes and may not pay cash distributions during periods when we record net income.Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units. Our partnership agreement restricts unitholders' voting rights by providing that any units held by a person or group that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner and its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter.Reimbursements due to our general partner and its affiliates for services provided to us or on our behalf will reduce cash available for distribution to our common unitholders. The amount and timing of such reimbursements will be determined by our general partner. Prior to making any distribution on our common units, we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates, including Inergy, for all administrative costs and other expenses they incur and payments they make on our behalf pursuant to the omnibus agreement. Under the omnibus agreement, we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates for all expenses incurred on our behalf, including administrative costs, such as compensation expense for those persons who provide services necessary to run our business, and insurance expenses. As of September 30, 2012, we reimbursed our general partner and its affiliates approximately $15.3 million in fiscal year 2012 (including $9.0 million in reimbursements of direct personnel related expenses). Neither our partnership agreement nor the omnibus agreement limits the amount of expenses for which our general partner and its affiliates may be reimbursed. Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner will determine in good faith the expenses that are allocable to us. The reimbursement of expenses and payment of fees, if any, to our general partner and its affiliates will reduce the amount of available cash to pay cash distributions to our common unitholders. 25Table of ContentsThe credit and risk profile of our general partner and its owner, Inergy, could adversely affect our credit ratings and risk profile, which could increase our borrowing costs or hinder our ability to raise capital. The credit and business risk profiles of our general partner and Inergy may be factors considered in credit evaluations of us. This is because our general partner, which is owned by Inergy, controls our business activities, including our cash distribution policy and growth strategy. Any adverse change in Inergy's financial condition, including the degree of its financial leverage and its dependence on cash flow from us to service its debt, may adversely affect our credit ratings and risk profile. If we were to seek a credit rating in the future, our credit rating may be adversely affected by the leverage of our general partner or Inergy, as credit rating agencies such as Standard & Poor's Ratings Services and Moody's Investors Service may consider the leverage and credit profile of Inergy and its affiliates because of their ownership interest in and control of us. Any adverse effect on our credit rating would increase our cost of borrowing or hinder our ability to raise financing in the capital markets, which would impair our ability to grow our business and make distributions to common unitholders.Our general partner has a limited call right that may require unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 85% of the outstanding common units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price equal to the greater of (i) the average of the daily closing prices per limited partner interest of the class purchased for the 20 consecutive trading days immediately prior to the date three days before the date our general partner first mails notice of its election to purchase those limited partner interests, and (ii) the highest price paid by our general partner or any of its affiliates for any limited partner interests of the class purchased during the 90-day period preceding the date that the notice is mailed. As a result, unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return or a negative return on their investment. Unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their common units. Our general partner is not obligated to obtain a fairness opinion regarding the value of the common units to be repurchased by it upon exercise of the limited call right. There is no restriction in our partnership agreement that prevents our general partner from issuing additional common units and exercising its call right. If our general partner exercised its limited call right, the effect would be to take us private and, if the units were subsequently deregistered, we would no longer be subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act. As of September 30, 2012 Inergy owns, directly or indirectly, an aggregate of 75% of our common units. Risks Inherent in Our Structure and Relationship with InergyInergy controls our general partner, which has sole responsibility for conducting our business and managing our operations. Our general partner and its affiliates, including Inergy, have conflicts of interest with us and limited duties, and they may favor their own interests to the detriment of us and our common unitholders. Inergy owns and controls our general partner and appoints all of the directors of our general partner. Although our general partner has a duty to manage our partnership in a manner it believes is in our best interests, the executive officers and directors of our general partner have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to Inergy. Therefore, conflicts of interest may arise between our general partner and its affiliates, including Inergy, on the one hand, and us and our common unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our common unitholders. Inergy and other affiliates of our general partner may compete with us. Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner will be restricted from engaging in any business activities other than acting as our general partner and those activities incidental to its ownership of interests in us. Affiliates of our general partner, including Inergy, are not prohibited from engaging in other businesses or activities, including those that might be in direct competition with us. Inergy currently holds interests in, and may make investments in and purchases of, entities that acquire, own and operate natural gas and NGL storage and transportation businesses. In addition, Inergy is entitled under the omnibus agreement to review and has the first option on any third-party acquisition opportunities presented to us or to Inergy and is under no obligation to make acquisition opportunities available to us. These investments and acquisitions may include entities or assets that we would have been interested in acquiring. Therefore, Inergy may compete with us for investment opportunities, and Inergy may own an interest in entities that compete with us. 26Table of ContentsPursuant to the terms of our partnership agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, does not apply to our general partner or any of its affiliates, including its executive officers and directors and Inergy. Any such person or entity that becomes aware of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement or other matter that may be an opportunity for us will not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us. Any such person or entity will not be liable to us or to any limited partner for breach of any fiduciary duty or other duty by reason of the fact that such person or entity pursues or acquires such opportunity for itself, directs such opportunity to another person or entity or does not communicate such opportunity or information to us. This may create actual and potential conflicts of interest between us and affiliates of our general partner and result in less than favorable treatment of us and our common unitholders. Our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations. Our general partner intends to limit its liability under our contractual and other obligations so that the counterparties to such arrangements have recourse only against our assets and not against our general partner or its assets. Our general partner may therefore cause us to incur indebtedness or other obligations that are nonrecourse to our general partner. Our partnership agreement provides that any action taken by our general partner to limit its liability is not a breach of our general partner's duties, even if we could have obtained more favorable terms without the limitation on liability. In addition, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify our general partner to the extent that it incurs obligations on our behalf. Any such reimbursement or indemnification payments would reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our common unitholders. Our partnership agreement restricts the remedies available to our common unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that restrict the remedies available to our common unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of duty under state law with respect to fiduciary duties. For example, our partnership agreement provides that: •whenever our general partner, the board of directors of our general partner or any committee thereof (including the conflicts committee) makes a determination or takes, or declines to take, any other action in their respective capacities, our general partner, the board of directors of our general partner or any committee thereof (including the conflicts committee), as applicable, is required to make such determination, or take or decline to take such other action, in good faith, and is not subject to any higher standard imposed by our partnership agreement, Delaware law or any other law, rule or regulation, or at equity; •a determination, other action or failure to act by our general partner, the board of directors of our general partner or any committee thereof (including the conflicts committee) is deemed to be in good faith unless our general partner, the board of directors of our general partner or any committee thereof believed such determination, other action or failure to act was not in the best interests of the partnership; •our general partner does not have any liability to us or our common unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as it acted in good faith; and •our general partner and its officers and directors are not be liable for monetary damages to us or our limited partners for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our general partner or those other persons acted in bad faith or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was unlawful. Whenever a conflict arises between our general partner or its affiliates, on the one hand, and us and our limited partners, on the other hand, the resolution or course of action in respect of such conflict of interest shall be permitted and deemed approved by all our limited partners and shall not constitute a breach of our partnership agreement, of any agreement contemplated thereby or of any duty, if the resolution or course of action in respect of such conflict of interest is (i) approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner, although our general partner is not obligated to seek such approval; or (ii) approved by the vote of a majority of the outstanding common units, excluding any common units owned by our general partner or its affiliates. In connection with a situation involving a transaction with an affiliate or a conflict of interest, any determination by our general partner must be made in good faith. If an affiliate transaction or the resolution of a conflict of interest is not approved by our common unitholders or the conflicts committee then it will be presumed that, in making its decision, taking any action or failing to act, the board of directors acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or the partnership, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption. 27Table of ContentsUnlike many other master limited partnerships, which require at least two independent members of the conflicts committee, our partnership agreement provides that a conflicts committee may be comprised of one or more directors. If we establish a conflicts committee with only one director, your interests may not be as well served as if we had a conflicts committee comprised of at least two independent directors. A single member conflicts committee would not have the benefit of discussion with and input from other independent directors. Our partnership agreement limits our general partner's duties to holders of our common units. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that modify and reduce the standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state law with respect to fiduciary duties. For example, our partnership agreement permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner, or otherwise free of contractual or fiduciary duties to us and our common unitholders. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires and relieves it of any duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or our limited partners. Examples of decisions that our general partner may make in its individual capacity include: •how to allocate business opportunities among us and its affiliates; •whether to exercise its limited call right; •how to exercise its voting rights with respect to any units it owns; •whether to exercise its registration rights; •whether to exercise its registration rights;•whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of us or amendment to the partnership agreement.By purchasing a common unit, a common unitholder is treated as having consented to the provisions in the partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above. Inergy may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the quarterly distribution related to its IDRs, without the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner or the holders of our common units. This election could result in lower distributions to our common unitholders. Inergy has the right to reset, at a higher level, the quarterly distribution based on our cash distributions at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following a reset election, the quarterly distribution will be reset to an amount equal to the cash distribution amount per unit for the quarter immediately preceding the reset election (which amount we refer to as the reset quarterly distribution). If Inergy elects to reset the quarterly distribution, it will be entitled to receive a number of newly issued common units. The number of common units to be issued to Inergy will equal the number of common units that would have entitled the holder to the quarterly cash distribution in the prior quarter equal to the distribution to Inergy on the IDRs in such prior quarter. It is possible that Inergy could exercise this reset election at a time when it is experiencing, or expects to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its IDRs and may, therefore, desire to be issued common units rather than retain the right to receive incentive distributions based on the quarterly distribution. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience a reduction in the amount of cash distributions that our common unitholders would have otherwise received had we not issued new common units to Inergy in connection with resetting the quarterly distribution. Even if holders of our common units are dissatisfied, they cannot currently remove our general partner without its consent. If our common unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they have limited ability to remove our general partner. Common unitholders are unable to remove our general partner without its consent because Inergy owns a sufficient number of common units to be able to prevent its removal. The vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of all our outstanding common units is required to remove our general partner. Inergy currently owns, directly or indirectly, an aggregate of 75% of our common units.Our general partner interest and our IDRs may be transferred without common unitholder consent.Our partnership agreement provides that, at any time, our general partner may transfer all or any of its general partner interest or common units to another person without the consent of our common unitholders, and our common unitholders will have no right to elect our general partner or its directors on an annual or other continuing basis. In addition, Inergy and Inergy Holdings GP, LLC ("Holdings GP"), the indirect owner of Inergy's general partner, have entered into an agreement under which Holdings GP will be required to purchase the entity that controls our general partner in the event that (i) a change of control of Inergy 28Table of Contentsoccurs at a time when Inergy is entitled to receive less than 50% of all cash distributed with respect to our limited partner interests and IDRs or (ii) through dilution or a distribution to the Inergy common unitholders of Inergy's interests in us, Inergy is entitled to receive less than 25% of all cash distributed with respect to our limited partner interests and IDRs. If the sole member of our general partner transfers its membership interest in our general partner to a third party or Holdings GP acquires the entity that controls our general partner, the third party or Holdings GP, as applicable, would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and executive officers of our general partner with its designees and thereby exert significant control over the decisions taken by the board of directors and executive officers of our general partner. This effectively permits a “change of control” without the vote or consent of the common unitholders. Our partnership agreement also provides that the holder of the IDRs may transfer those interests to a third party at any time without the consent of our common unitholders. Inergy indirectly owns all of our IDRs. If Inergy transfers its IDRs to a third party, Inergy may not have the same incentive to grow our partnership and increase quarterly distributions to common unitholders over time as it would if it had retained ownership of the IDRs.Tax Risks to Common UnitholdersThe tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships is subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, or if we were to become subject to a material amount of state or local taxation, then our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced.The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. A publicly traded partnership such as us may be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes unless it satisfies requirements regarding the sources of its income. Based on our current operations we believe that we are treated as a partnership rather than a corporation; however, a change in our business could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes.In addition, current law may change so as to cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. For example, members of Congress have recently considered substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that would affect the tax treatment of certain publicly traded partnerships. In addition, because of widespread state budget deficits, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. If any state were to impose a tax upon us as an entity, the cash available to pay distributions would be reduced. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes, or other proposals, will ultimately be enacted.Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, then the quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amount will be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us.If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would be obligated to pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, currently a maximum rate of 35%, as well as any applicable state income tax. Distributions to our unitholders generally would be taxed to them in the same manner as distributions from a corporation, and none of our income, gain, loss, deduction or credit would flow through to our unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution would be substantially reduced. Therefore, our treatment as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units.If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to you.We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, the costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by you and our general partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution.29Table of ContentsYou may be required to pay taxes on your share of our income even if you do not receive cash distributions from us.Because you will be treated as a partner in us for federal income tax purposes, we will allocate a share of our taxable income to you which could be different in amount than the cash we distribute to you, and you may be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on your share of our taxable income even if you do not receive any cash distributions from us. You may not receive cash distributions from us equal to your share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income.Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected.If you sell your common units, you will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between your amount realized and your tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of your allocable share of our total net taxable income result in a reduction in your tax basis in your common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units you sell will, in effect, become taxable income to you if you sell such units at a price greater than your tax basis in those common units, even if the price you receive is less than your original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture of depreciation deductions. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder's share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if you sell your units, you may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash you receive from the sale.Tax-exempt entities, regulated investment companies and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them.Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, including employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations exempt from federal income tax, including individual retirement accounts and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes imposed at the highest effective applicable tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file U. S. federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If you are a tax-exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, you should consult your tax advisor before investing in our common units.We treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the specific common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units.To maintain the uniformity of the economic and tax characteristics of our common units, we have adopted certain depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. These positions may result in an understatement of deductions and an overstatement of income to our unitholders. For example, we do not amortize certain goodwill assets, the value of which has been attributed to certain of our outstanding units. A subsequent holder of those units may be entitled to an amortization deduction attributable to that goodwill under Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b). But, because we cannot identify these units once they are traded by the initial holder, we do not allocate any subsequent holder of a unit any such amortization deduction. This approach may understate deductions available to those unitholders who own those units and may result in those unitholders reporting that they have a higher tax basis in their units than would be the case if the IRS strictly applied Treasury Regulations relating to these depreciation or amortization adjustments. This, in turn, may result in those unitholders reporting less gain or more loss on a sale of their units than would be the case if the IRS strictly applied those Treasury Regulations.The IRS may challenge the manner in which we calculate our unitholder's basis adjustment under Section 743(b). If so, because the specific unitholders to which this issue relates cannot be identified, the IRS may assert adjustments to all unitholders selling units within the period under audit. A successful IRS challenge to this position or other positions we may take could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the gain from a unitholder's sale of common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. Consequently, a successful IRS challenge could have a negative impact on the value of the common units.We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. 30Table of ContentsThe use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations. Recently, the U.S. Treasury Department issued proposed Treasury Regulations that provide a safe harbor pursuant to which publicly traded partnerships may use a similar monthly simplifying convention to allocate tax items among transferor and transferee unitholders. Nonetheless, the proposed regulations do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to challenge our proration method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.A unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, that unitholder would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition.If you loan your units to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units, you may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, and you may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and you may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. During the period of the loan, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by you and any cash distributions you receive as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. To assure your status as a partner and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller you are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit your broker from borrowing your units.The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests within a twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes.We will be considered to have constructively terminated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange within a twelve-month period of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same interest will be counted only once. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders which could result in us filing two tax returns (and unitholders receiving two Schedule K-1s) for one calendar year. Our termination could also result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a calendar year, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in its taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but instead, we would be treated as a new partnership for federal income tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a termination occurred. Pursuant to an IRS relief procedure a publicly traded partnership that has technically terminated may request special relief which, if granted by the IRS, among other things, would permit the partnership to provide only a single Schedule K-1 to unitholders for the tax years in which the termination occurs.Our unitholders will likely be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in states where they do not live as a result of investing in our common units.In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes, estate, inheritance or intangible taxes and foreign taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property and in which they do not reside. We own property and conduct business in various parts of the United States. Unitholders may be required to file state and local income tax returns in many or all of the jurisdictions in which we do business or own property. Further, unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. It is our unitholders' responsibility to file all required U. S. federal, state, local and foreign tax returns.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.None.31Table of Contents