ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent to our business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes may affect our business are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our business. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair our business operations. This Report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our common stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Factors Relating to Our Markets and to Our Business Generally, a deterioration in economic conditions and a slowdown in growth in any of our market areas, and particularly a slowdown in gaming and tourism activities in Las Vegas, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Such deterioration could result in a variety of adverse consequences to us, including a reduction in net income and the following: • Loan delinquencies may increase, which would cause us to increase provisions for loan losses; • Problem assets and foreclosures may increase, which could result in higher operating expenses, as well as possible increases in our provisions for loan losses; • Demand for our products and services may decline, including specifically, the demand for loans, which would cause our revenues (net interest income and non-interest income) to decline; and • Collateral for loans made by us may decline in value, in turn reducing a customer’s borrowing power, and thus reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our loans, which could cause decreases in net interest income and increase the provision for loan losses. The greater Las Vegas area economy has grown dramatically during the past several years. The failure of this economy to sustain such growth in the future could seriously affect our ability to grow and to be profitable. Our assets have enjoyed substantial growth with an annual compounded growth rate of 41% for the four-year period ending December 31, 2006. Our growth has been fueled by the significant growth in the greater Las Vegas area. Diminished growth of this market in the future could have a significant adverse impact on our continued growth and profitability. While the current economic forecasts prepared by CBER remain optimistic about the future growth of Las Vegas, albeit at lower growth rates than have recently been experienced, there are uncertainties in the economy, besides tourism and gaming discussed below, such as limitations on water, the continued availability of land from the Bureau of Land Management, infrastructure strains, increasing costs of housing, and tax and budgetary pressures, which may encumber future growth. Our Las Vegas market area is substantially dependent on gaming and tourism revenue, and a downturn in gaming or tourism could seriously hurt our business and our prospects. While we have operations in Arizona, our business is currently concentrated in the greater Las Vegas area, which has a unique economy in the United States for its level of dependence on services and industries related to gaming and tourism. Any event that negatively impacts the tourism or gaming industry will adversely impact the Las Vegas economy. 27 Table of Contents Gaming and tourism revenue (whether or not such tourism is directly related to gaming) is vulnerable to various factors. A prolonged downturn in the national economy could have a significant adverse effect on the economy of the Las Vegas area. Virtually any development or event that could dissuade travel or spending related to gaming and tourism, whether inside or outside of Las Vegas, could adversely affect the Las Vegas economy. In this regard, the Las Vegas economy is more susceptible than the economies of other cities to issues such as higher gasoline and other fuel prices, increased airfares, unemployment levels, recession, rising interest rates, and other economic conditions, whether domestic or foreign. An expansion of permissible gaming activities in other states, particularly in California, may lead to a decline in gaming revenue in Las Vegas, which could hurt our business and our prospects. Las Vegas competes with other areas of the country for gaming revenue, and it is possible that the expansion of gaming operations in other states, as a result of changes in laws or otherwise, could significantly reduce gaming revenue in the greater Las Vegas area. This is particularly true of gaming operations in California, a state from which Nevada generally, and Las Vegas in particular, draws substantial year-round visitors. Agreements negotiated between the State of California and certain Indian tribes as well as other proposals currently under consideration in California may result in substantial additional casinos throughout the state. In addition, other California legislative proposals could permit an expansion of gaming activities allowed in card clubs, including the addition of slot machines. A dramatic growth in casino gaming in California or other states could have a substantial adverse effect on gaming revenue in Nevada, including the Las Vegas area, which would adversely affect the Las Vegas economy and our business. A terrorist act, or the mere threat of a terrorist act, may adversely affect the Las Vegas economy and may cause substantial harm to our business. Gaming and tourism are also susceptible to certain political conditions or events, such as military hostilities and acts of terrorism, whether domestic or foreign. The effects of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, on gaming and tourism in Las Vegas were substantial for a few months. Reduced civilian air traffic in large part caused a reduction in revenue and employee layoffs in many hotels and casinos. This resulted in a substantial loss of revenues for these businesses. Any direct attack on locations in Las Vegas would likely have an even greater adverse impact on our local economy. Future growth of the greater Las Vegas area is dependent, among other things, on the availability of water, and any restrictions imposed by the government on water consumption could curtail future development, which has been a source of growth in our loan portfolio. Future development in the greater Las Vegas area is subject to the availability of water. According to the Rocky Mountain Institute, Las Vegas has one of the highest per capita rates of water consumption in the nation. Based upon an August 2003 U.S. Geological Survey, inflows into Lake Mead and Lake Powell on the Colorado River have been below average since the start of a persistent drought in the western United States in 2000. In 2003, Lake Mead, the primary water supply for Las Vegas, dropped to its lowest level in more than three decades. We cannot assure that governmental officials will not impose building moratoriums, restrictive building requirements, water conservation measures, or other measures to address water shortages in the future. Such restrictions could curtail future development, which has been a source of growth in our loan portfolio, or make living conditions less desirable than current conditions, which could reduce the influx of new residents from current levels. The value of real estate in the greater Las Vegas area is influenced by the distribution policies of the Bureau of Land Management. A change in such distribution policies could affect the value of real estate, which, in turn, could negatively affect our real estate loan portfolio. Land values in Nevada are influenced by the amount of land sold by the Bureau of Land Management, which controls 67% of Nevada’s land, according to the Nevada State Office of the Bureau of Land Management. Changes to the distribution policies of the Bureau of Land Management on Nevada land could adversely affect the value of Nevada real estate. 28 Table of Contents We have a high concentration of loans secured by real estate and a downturn in the real estate market, for any reason, could hurt our business and our prospects. At December 31, 2006, 85% of our loan portfolio was comprised of real estate loans. Undeveloped land loans, which are included in the categories below, represent approximately 21% of our total loans secured by real estate. Within our real estate loan portfolio, approximately: • 64% are construction and land development loans, including undeveloped land; • 33% are commercial real estate loans; and • 3% are residential real estate loans. These real estate loans are concentrated in the greater Las Vegas area. A downturn in the local economy could have a material adverse effect on a borrower’s ability to repay these loans due to either loss of the borrower’s employment or a reduction in the borrower’s business. Further, such reduction in the local economy could severely impair the value of the real property held as collateral. As a result, the value of real estate collateral securing our loans could be reduced. Our ability to recover on defaulted loans by foreclosing and selling the real estate collateral would then be diminished and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. In addition, federal banking regulators recently issued final guidance regarding commercial real estate lending. This guidance suggests that institutions that are potentially exposed to significant CRE concentration risk will be subject to increased regulatory scrutiny. Institutions that have experienced rapid growth in CRE lending, have notable exposure to a specific type of CRE lending, or are approaching or exceed certain supervisory criteria that measure an institution’s CRE portfolio against its capital levels, may be subject to such increased regulatory scrutiny. Our CRE portfolio may be viewed as falling within one or more of the foregoing categories, and accordingly we may become subject to increased regulatory scrutiny because of our CRE portfolio. If it is determined by our regulator that we have an undue concentration in CRE lending, we may be required to maintain levels of capital in excess of the statutory minimum requirements and/or be required to reduce our concentration in CRE loans. Factors Relating to Our Business Our future success involves both our ability to grow and our ability to manage such growth. Additionally, we must continue to manage the risks inherent in the banking business. We may not be able to sustain our historical growth rates, be able to grow at all, or successfully manage any growth, whether or not the greater Las Vegas, or Phoenix area economies continue to grow. This could result in a variety of adverse consequences to us, including the following: • Inability to realize any benefit from our investment of resources made to support our future growth; • Failure to attract or retain experienced commercial bankers or other key employees; • Inability to maintain adequate controls and systems; and • Failure to comply with applicable federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations. We may not be able to continue our growth at the rate we have in the past several years. We have grown from $400.6 million in total assets, $293.5 million in gross loans and $351.6 million in total deposits at December 31, 2002, to $1.6 billion in total assets, $1.3 billion in gross loans and $1.2 billion in total deposits at December 31, 2006. Our business strategy calls for, among other things: • Continued growth of our assets, loans, deposits and customer base; 29 Table of Contents • Expansion through acquisition or the establishment of new branches or banks in high growth markets, such as the greater Las Vegas and Phoenix areas, and similar high growth markets in California; • Recruitment of experienced commercial bankers and other key employees; and • Effective leveraging of our capital. However, we may encounter unanticipated obstacles in implementing our strategy. If we are unable to expand our business, as we anticipate based on our strategic plan, we may not be able to maintain profitability, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to sustain our historical growth rates. A component of our business strategy is to expand into high growth markets by opening new branches or organizing new banks and/or acquiring other financial institutions. We may not be able to successfully implement this part of our business strategy, and therefore our market value and profitability may suffer. Growth through acquisitions of banks represents a component of our business strategy. Any future acquisitions will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions. These risks include, among other things: • Difficulty of integrating the operations and personnel of acquired banks and branches; • Potential disruption of our ongoing business; • Inability of our management to maximize our financial and strategic position by the successful implementation of uniform product offerings and the incorporation of uniform technology into our product offerings and control systems; and • Inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies and the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of changes in management. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with acquisitions. Our inability to improve the operating performance of acquired banks or to integrate their operations successfully could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, we could incur substantial expenses, including the expenses of integrating the business of the acquired bank with our existing business. We expect that competition for acquisition candidates may be significant. We may compete with other banks or financial service companies with similar acquisition strategies, many of which may be larger or have greater financial and other resources than we have. The purchase price of banks that might be attractive acquisition candidates for us may significantly exceed the fair values of their net assets. As a result, material goodwill and other intangible assets would be required to be recorded. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully identify and acquire suitable banks on acceptable terms and conditions. Depending upon the structure of an acquisition and the consideration we may utilize, we may not seek your approval as a shareholder. Further, acquisitions may be structured to include cash consideration that may result in the depletion of a substantial portion of our available cash. Besides the acquisition of existing financial institutions, we may consider the organization of new banks in high growth areas, especially in markets outside of the greater Las Vegas and Phoenix areas, such as California. Any organization of a new bank carries with it numerous risks, including the following: • Inability to obtain all required regulatory approvals; • Significant costs and anticipated operating losses during the application and organizational phases, and the first years of operations of the new bank; • Inability to secure the services of qualified senior management; 30 Table of Contents • Non-acceptance of the services of a new bank owned and managed by a bank holding company headquartered outside of the market area of the new bank; • Additional strain on management resources and internal systems and controls; and • Inability to secure required capital. Our growth could be hindered unless we are able to recruit additional, qualified employees. We may have difficulty attracting additional necessary personnel, which may divert resources and limit our ability to successfully expand our operations. The greater Las Vegas and Phoenix metropolitan areas are experiencing a period of rapid growth, placing a premium on highly qualified employees in a number of industries, including the financial services industry. Our business plan includes, and is dependent upon, our hiring and retaining highly qualified and motivated executives and employees at every level, including SBA management and support staff, experienced loan originators and branch managers. We expect to experience substantial competition in our endeavor to identify, hire and retain top-quality employees. If we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees in the near term, we may be unable to successfully execute our business strategy and/or be unable to successfully manage our growth. We believe that we have built our management team and personnel, and established an infrastructure, to support our current size. Our future success will depend on the ability of our executives and employees to continue to implement and improve our operational, financial and management controls and processes, reporting systems and procedures, and to manage a growing number of client relationships. We may not be able to successfully implement improvements to our management information and control systems and control procedures and processes in an efficient or timely manner. In particular, our controls and procedures must be able to accommodate additional increases in loan volume and the infrastructure that comes with new branches. Our growth strategy may place a strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure. If we are unable to locate additional personnel and to manage future expansion in our operations, we may experience compliance and operational issues, have to slow the pace of growth, or have to incur additional expenditures beyond current projections to support such growth, any one of which could adversely affect our business. Our business would be harmed if we lost the services of any of our executive management team. We believe that our success thus far, and our prospects for success in the future, are substantially dependent on the executive management teams of the Company, Community Bank of Nevada and Community Bank of Arizona. The loss of the services of any of these persons could have an adverse effect on our business. We have employment agreements at the holding company level with our President/Chief Executive Officer, Executive Vice President/Chief Operating Officer, and Executive Vice President/Chief Financial Officer. In light of the relatively small pool of persons involved in the greater Las Vegas area banking industry, we could have difficulty replacing any member of our executive management teams or senior officers with equally competent persons who are also familiar with our market area. There is intense competition in our market area, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully compete. Commercial banking in the greater Las Vegas and Phoenix metropolitan areas is a highly competitive business. Increased competition in our market may result in a reduction in the volume loans and deposits. We compete for loans, deposits and customers primarily with the local offices of major banks and with other community banks in our market. We also compete with credit unions, small loan companies, insurance companies, mortgage companies, finance companies, brokerage houses, other financial institutions, and out-of-state financial intermediaries, some of which are not subject to the same degree of regulation and restriction and some of which have financial resources greater than ours. Technological advances continue to 31 Table of Contents contribute to greater competition in domestic and international products and services. Ultimately, we may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses, particularly given our relatively large individual loan size. A significant source of risk arises from the possibility that losses could be sustained because borrowers, guarantors and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the loan terms. The underwriting and credit monitoring policies that we have adopted to address this risk may not prevent unexpected losses that could have a material adverse affect on our business. Our average loan size at December 31, 2006 was approximately $677,000 (excluding credit card, overdraft and purchased participation loans). This relatively large average loan size, while an advantage from a cost generation standpoint, can adversely impact us if the larger loans become delinquent, unstable, impaired, uncollectible or inadequately collateralized. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect our business. Our allowance for loan losses is based on our prior experience and peer bank experience, as well as an evaluation of the known risks in the current portfolio, composition and growth of the loan portfolio and economic factors. The determination of the appropriate level of loan loss allowance is an inherently difficult process and is based on numerous assumptions. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, that may be beyond our control and these losses may exceed current estimates. We cannot assure you that we will not increase the allowance for loan losses further or that regulators will not require us to increase this allowance. Either of these occurrences could adversely affect our business and prospects. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws may limit the ability of another party to acquire us. Various provisions of our articles of incorporation and by-laws could delay or prevent a third-party from acquiring us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our shareholders. These provisions provide for, among other requirements, advance notice for nomination of directors and limitations on the ability of shareholders to call a special meeting of shareholders, which can make minority shareholder representation on the board of directors more difficult to establish. We Are Subject To Interest Rate Risk. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including, but not limited to, general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the amount of interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits as well as the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities. If the interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings increases at a faster rate than the interest we receive on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest we receive on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings. Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on our results of operations, any substantial, unexpected and/or prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 32 Table of Contents We are subject to extensive government regulation. These regulations could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We are subject to extensive regulation by federal and state governmental authorities and are subject to various laws, judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of our operations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and regulations applicable to us are subject to regular modification and change. There are currently proposed laws, rules and regulations that, if adopted, would impact our operations. We cannot assure you that these proposed laws, rules and regulations, or any other laws, rules or regulations, will not be adopted in the future, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our Stock Trades Less Frequently Than Others. Although our common stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ Global Market, the trading volume of our common stock is less than that of other larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Our stock price could fall due to lower trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of our common stock or the expectation of these sales. Our Stock Price Is Affected by a Variety of Factors. Stock price volatility may impact resale of your common stock when desired or at attractive prices. Our stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors discussed in this section including, among other reasons: • Actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations; • Recommendations by securities analysts; • Operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to our company; • News reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry; • Perceptions in the marketplace regarding our company and/or its competitors. Our Common Stock Is Not An Insured Deposit. Our common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this Report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, if you acquire our common stock, you may lose some or all of your investment. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 