ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISK FACTORS Readers and prospective investors in our securities should carefully consider the following risk factors as well as the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair our business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company's financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of the Company's securities could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. MARKET AND INTEREST RATE RISK CHANGES IN INTEREST RATES COULD REDUCE INCOME AND CASH FLOW The discussion in this report under "Item 7a Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" is incorporated by reference in this paragraph. The Company's income and cash flow depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest earned on loans and investment securities, and the interest paid on deposits and other borrowings. We cannot control or prevent changes in the level of interest rates. They fluctuate in response to general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the FRB. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits and other liabilities. RISKS RELATED TO THE NATURE AND GEOGRAPHICAL LOCATION OF BRIDGE CAPITAL HOLDINGS' BUSINESS BRIDGE CAPITAL HOLDINGS' INVESTS IN LOANS THAT CONTAIN INHERENT CREDIT RISKS THAT MAY CAUSE US TO INCUR LOSSES The Company closely monitors the markets in which it conducts its lending operations and adjusts its strategy to control exposure to loans with higher credit risk. Asset reviews are performed using grading standards and criteria similar to those employed by bank regulatory agencies. We can provide no assurance that the credit quality of our loans will not deteriorate in the future and that such deterioration will not adversely affect the Company. BRIDGE CAPITAL HOLDINGS' OPERATIONS ARE CONCENTRATED GEOGRAPHICALLY IN CALIFORNIA, AND POOR ECONOMIC CONDITIONS MAY CAUSE US TO INCUR LOSSES. Substantially all of Bridge Capital Holdings' business is located in California. Bridge Capital Holdings' financial condition and operating results will be subject to changes in economic conditions in California. In the early to mid-1990s, California experienced a significant and prolonged downturn in its economy, which adversely affected financial institutions. Economic conditions in California are subject to various uncertainties at this time, including the decline in the technology sector, the California state government's budgetary difficulties and continuing fiscal difficulties. The Company will be subject to changes in economic conditions. We can provide no assurance that conditions in the California economy will not deteriorate in the future and that such deterioration will not adversely effect Bridge Capital Holdings. THE MARKETS IN WHICH BRIDGE CAPITAL HOLDINGS OPERATES ARE SUBJECT TO THE RISK OF EARTHQUAKES AND OTHER NATURAL DISASTERS 19 Most of the properties of Bridge Capital Holdings are located in California. Also, most of the real and personal properties which currently secure the company's loans are located in California. California is a state which is prone to earthquakes, brush fires, flooding and other natural disasters. In addition to possibly sustaining damage to its own properties, if there is a major earthquake, flood or other natural disaster, Bridge Capital Holdings faces the risk that many of its borrowers may experience uninsured property losses, or sustained job interruption and/or loss which may materially impair their ability to meet the terms of their loan obligations. A major earthquake, flood or other natural disaster in California could have a material adverse effect on Bridge Capital Holdings' business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. SUBSTANTIAL COMPETITION IN THE CALIFORNIA BANKING MARKET COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT US Banking is a highly competitive business. We compete actively for loan, deposit, and other financial services business in California. Our competitors include a large number of state and national banks, thrift institutions and credit unions, as well as many financial and non-financial firms that offer services similar to those offered by us. Other competitors include large financial institutions that have substantial capital, technology and marketing resources. Such large financial institutions may have greater access to capital at a lower cost than us, which may adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. REGULATORY RISKS RESTRICTIONS ON DIVIDENDS AND OTHER DISTRIBUTIONS COULD LIMIT AMOUNTS PAYABLE TO US Various statutory provisions restrict the amount of dividends our subsidiaries can pay to us without regulatory approval. In addition, if any subsidiary of ours were to liquidate, that subsidiary's creditors will be entitled to receive distributions from the assets of that subsidiary to satisfy their claims against it before we, as a holder of an equity interest in the subsidiary, will be entitled to receive any of the assets of the subsidiary. ADVERSE EFFECTS OF, OR CHANGES IN, BANKING OR OTHER LAWS AND REGULATIONS OR GOVERNMENTAL FISCAL OR MONETARY POLICIES COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT US We are subject to significant federal and state regulation and supervision, which is primarily for the benefit and protection of our customers and not for the benefit of investors. In the past, our business has been materially affected by these regulations. This trend is likely to continue in the future. Laws, regulations or policies, including accounting standards and interpretations currently affecting us and our subsidiaries, may change at any time. Regulatory authorities may also change their interpretation of these statutes and regulations. Therefore, our business may be adversely affected by any future changes in laws, regulations, policies or interpretations or regulatory approaches to compliance and enforcement, including legislative and regulatory reactions to the terrorist attack on September 11, 2001 and future acts of terrorism, and major U.S. corporate bankruptcies and reports of accounting irregularities at U.S. public companies. Additionally, our business is affected significantly by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. We are particularly affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve Board, which regulates the supply of money and credit in the U.S. Under long-standing policy of the Federal Reserve Board, a bank holding company is expected to act as a source of financial strength for its subsidiary banks. As a result of that policy, we may be required to commit financial and other resources to our subsidiary bank in circumstances where we might not otherwise do so. Among the instruments of monetary policy available to the Federal Reserve Board are (a) conducting open market operations in U.S. government securities, (b) changing the discount rates of borrowings by depository institutions, and (c) imposing or changing reserve requirements against certain borrowings by banks and their affiliates. These methods are used in varying degrees and combinations to directly affect the availability of bank loans and deposits, as well as the interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits. The policies of the Federal Reserve Board may have a material effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. SYSTEMS, ACCOUNTING AND INTERNAL CONTROL RISKS THE ACCURACY OF THE COMPANY'S JUDGMENTS AND ESTIMATES ABOUT FINANCIAL AND ACCOUNTING MATTERS WILL IMPACT OPERATING RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION The discussion under "Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates" in this report and the information referred to in that discussion is incorporated by reference in this paragraph. The Company makes certain estimates and judgments in preparing its financial statements. The quality and accuracy of those estimates and judgments will have an impact on the Company's operating results and financial condition. 20 THE COMPANY'S INFORMATION SYSTEMS MAY EXPERIENCE AN INTERRUPTION OR BREACH IN SECURITY The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Company's customer relationship management and systems. There can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately corrected by the Company. The occurrence of any such failures, interruptions or security breaches could damage the Company's reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose the Company to litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. THE COMPANY'S CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES MAY FAIL OR BE CIRCUMVENTED Management regularly reviews and updates the Company's internal control over financial reporting, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls and procedures, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the Company's controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 