Item 1A. Risk FactorsIn addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, you should consider the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations in the future. The following factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ from those projected in any forward looking statements we make.Certain of our customers are significant to our revenues, and we could be adversely affected by changes in the business or financial condition of these significant customers or by the loss of their business. Our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 54%, 51% and 51% of our total “Net sales” for the year ended March 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively, with Rexam Plc, a leading global beverage can maker, and its affiliates representing approximately 17%, 15% and 14% of our total “Net sales” in the respective periods. A significant downturn in the business or financial condition of our significant customers could materially adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. In addition, if our existing relationships with significant customers materially deteriorate or are terminated in the future, and we are not successful in replacing business lost from such customers, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. Some of the longer term contracts under which we supply our customers, including under umbrella agreements such as those described under “Business - Our Customers,” are subject to renewal, renegotiation or re-pricing at periodic intervals or upon changes in competitive supply conditions. Our failure to successfully renew, renegotiate or re-price such agreements could result in a reduction or loss in customer purchase volume or revenue, and if we are not successful in replacing business lost from such customers, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. The markets in which we operate are competitive and customers may seek to consolidate supplier relationships or change suppliers to obtain cost savings and other benefits.Our results and short term liquidity can be negatively impacted by timing differences between the prices we pay under purchase contracts and metal prices we charge our customers. Most of our purchase and sales contracts are based on the LME price for high grade aluminum, and there are typically timing differences between the pricing periods for purchases and sales where purchase prices tend to be fixed and paid earlier than sales prices. This creates a price exposure that we call “metal price lag.” The timing difference associated with metal price lag could positively or negatively impact our operating results and short term liquidity position. We use derivative instruments to manage the timing differences associated with metal price lag. Our operations consume energy and our profitability and cash flows may decline if energy costs were to rise, or if our energy supplies were interrupted. We consume substantial amounts of energy in our rolling, casting and smelter operations. The factors that affect our energy costs and supply reliability tend to be specific to each of our facilities. A number of factors could materially adversely affect our energy position including:• increases in costs of natural gas; • increases in costs of supplied electricity or fuel oil related to transportation; • interruptions in energy supply due to equipment failure or other causes; • the inability to extend energy supply contracts upon expiration on economical terms; and • the inability to pass through energy costs in certain sales contracts. In addition, global climate change may increase our costs for energy sources, supplies or raw materials. See We may be affected by global climate change or by legal, regulatory or market responses to such change. If energy costs were to rise, or if energy supplies or supply arrangements were disrupted, our profitability and cash flows could decline.16A deterioration of our financial position or a downgrade of our ratings by a credit rating agency could increase our borrowing costs and our business relationships could be adversely affected. A deterioration of our financial position or a downgrade of our ratings for any reason could increase our borrowing costs and have an adverse effect on our business relationships with customers, suppliers and hedging counterparties. From time to time, we enter into various forms of hedging activities against currency, interest rate, energy or metal price fluctuations. Financial strength and credit ratings are important to the availability and pricing of these hedging and trading activities. As a result, a downgrade of our credit ratings or changes to our level of indebtedness may make it more difficult or costly for us to engage in these activities in the future.Adverse changes in currency exchange rates could negatively affect our financial results or cash flows and the competitiveness of our aluminum rolled products relative to other materials. Our businesses and operations are exposed to the effects of changes in the exchange rates of the U.S. dollar, the euro, the British pound, the Brazilian real, the Canadian dollar, the Korean won and other currencies. We have implemented a hedging policy that attempts to manage currency exchange rate risks to an acceptable level based on management's judgment of the appropriate trade-off between risk, opportunity and cost; however, this hedging policy may not successfully or completely eliminate the effects of currency exchange rate fluctuations which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and cash flows.We prepare our consolidated financial statements in U.S. dollars, but a portion of our earnings and expenditures are denominated in other currencies, primarily the euro, the Korean won and the Brazilian real. Changes in exchange rates will result in increases or decreases in our operating results and may also affect the book value of our assets located outside the U.S.Most of our facilities are staffed by a unionized workforce, and union disputes and other employee relations issues could materially adversely affect our financial results. Approximately 63% of our employees are represented by labor unions under a large number of collective bargaining agreements with varying durations and expiration dates. We may not be able to satisfactorily renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements when they expire. In addition, existing collective bargaining agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage at our facilities in the future.We could be adversely affected by disruptions of our operations. Breakdown of equipment or other events, including catastrophic events such as war or natural disasters, leading to production interruptions at our plants could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and cash flows. Further, because many of our customers are, to varying degrees, dependent on planned deliveries from our plants, those customers that have to reschedule their own production due to our missed deliveries could pursue claims against us and reduce their future business with us. We may incur costs to correct any of these problems, in addition to facing claims from customers. Further, our reputation among actual and potential customers may be harmed, resulting in a loss of business. While we maintain insurance policies covering, among other things, physical damage, business interruptions and product liability, these policies would not cover all of our losses.Our operations have been and will continue to be exposed to various business and other risks, changes in conditions and events beyond our control in countries where we have operations or sell products. We are, and will continue to be, subject to financial, political, economic and business risks in connection with our global operations. We have made investments and carry on production activities in various emerging markets, including China, Brazil, Korea and Malaysia, and we market our products in these countries, as well as certain other countries in Asia, the Middle East and emerging markets in South America. While we anticipate higher growth or attractive production opportunities from these emerging markets, they also present a higher degree of risk than more developed markets. In addition to the business risks inherent in developing and servicing new markets, economic conditions may be more volatile, legal and regulatory systems less developed and predictable, and the possibility of various types of adverse governmental action more pronounced. In addition, inflation, fluctuations in currency and interest rates, competitive factors, civil unrest and labor problems could affect our revenues, expenses and results of operations. Our operations could also be adversely affected by acts of war, terrorism or the threat of any of these events as well as government actions such as controls on imports, exports and prices, tariffs, new forms of taxation, or changes in fiscal regimes and increased government regulation in the countries in which we operate or service customers. Unexpected or uncontrollable events or circumstances in any of these markets could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and cash flows.17In addition, relations between the Republic of Korea (which we refer to as Korea) and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (which we refer to as North Korea) have been tense throughout Korea's modern history. There can be no assurance that the level of tension on the Korean peninsula will not escalate in the future. Attacks may occur on Korea, including on areas in which we operate, which could have a material adverse affect on our operations. If military hostilities increase between North Korea and Korea or the United States, the region could become destabilized and our operations could be halted, and any such hostilities could have a material adverse effect on our operations.Economic conditions could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our financial condition and results of operations depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions. Uncertainty about current or future global economic conditions poses a risk as our customers may postpone purchases in response to tighter credit and negative financial news, which could adversely impact demand for our products. In addition, there can be no assurance that actions we may take in response to economic conditions will be sufficient to counter any continuation or any downturn or disruption. A significant global economic downturn or disruption in the financial markets could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity could be adversely affected if we were unable to purchase derivative instruments or if counterparties to our derivative instruments fail to honor their agreements. We use various derivative instruments to manage the risks arising from fluctuations in aluminum prices, exchange rates, energy prices and interest rates. If for any reason we were unable to purchase derivative instruments to manage these risks, our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity could be adversely affected. In addition, we may be exposed to losses in the future if the counterparties to our derivative instruments fail to honor their agreements. In particular, deterioration in the financial condition of our counterparties and any resulting failure to pay amounts owed to us or to perform obligations or services owed to us could have a negative effect on our business and financial condition. Further, if major financial institutions consolidate and are forced to operate under more restrictive capital constraints and regulations, there could be less liquidity in the derivative markets, which could have a negative effect on our ability to hedge and transact with creditworthy counterparties.Derivatives legislation could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business and on the cost of our hedging activities. We use over-the-counter (OTC) derivative products to hedge our metal commodity risks and our interest rate and currency risks. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the SEC recently have finalized certain rules and regulations to increase regulatory oversight of the OTC markets and the entities that participate in those markets. Other regulations implementing the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act) remain to be finalized or implemented and it is not possible to predict when this will be accomplished or what impact these regulations will have on our ability to hedge our business risks, or the costs of doing so.In addition, the European Market Infrastructure Regulation (EMIR), which became effective in 2012, includes regulations related to the trading, reporting and clearing of derivatives. We have entities and counterparties that are located in jurisdictions subject to EMIR. Our efforts to comply with EMIR, and EMIR's effect on the derivatives markets and their participants, creates similar risks and could have similar adverse impacts as those under the Dodd-Frank Act.If future regulations subject us to additional capital or margin requirements or other restrictions on our trading and commodity positions, they could have an adverse effect on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business and on the cost of our hedging activities. It is also possible that additional similar regulations may be imposed in other jurisdictions where we conduct business and any such regulations could pose risks and have adverse effects on our operations and profitability.18Our goodwill, other intangible assets and other long-lived assets could become impaired, which could require us to take non-cash charges against earnings. We assess, at least annually and potentially more frequently, whether the value of our goodwill has been impaired. We assess the recoverability of finite-lived other intangible assets and other long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that we may not be able to recover the asset's carrying amount. Any impairment of goodwill, other intangible assets, or long-lived assets as a result of such analysis would result in a non-cash charge against earnings, which charge could materially adversely affect our reported results of operations. A significant and sustained decline in our future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the economic environment or slower growth rates could result in the need to perform additional impairment analysis in future periods. If we were to conclude that a write-down of goodwill or other intangible assets is necessary, then we would record such additional charges, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations.As part of our ongoing evaluation of our operations, we may undertake additional restructuring efforts in the future which could in some instances result in significant severance-related costs, environmental remediation expenses and impairment and other restructuring charges. We recorded “Restructuring and impairment, net” of $75 million and $47 million for the year ended March 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively, and $6 million and $3 million “Gain on assets held for sale” for the year ended March 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. During these periods, we announced, among others, the following restructuring actions and programs: •the planned sale of our consumer foil products business in North America, including plants in Toronto, Ontario and Vancouver, British Columbia;•the sale of certain land, alumina assets, and mining rights in Brazil;•the shutdown of a potline at our Ouro Preto smelter in Brazil; and•the sale of three of our European foil operations in Rugles, France; Dudelange, Luxembourg; and Berlin, Germany.We may take additional restructuring actions in the future. Any additional restructuring efforts could result in significant severance-related costs, environmental remediation expenses, impairment charges, restructuring charges and related costs and expenses, which could adversely affect our profitability and cash flows.We may not be able to successfully develop and implement new technology initiatives. We have invested in, and are involved with, a number of technology and process initiatives. Several technical aspects of these initiatives are still unproven, and the eventual commercial outcomes cannot be assessed with any certainty. Even if we are successful with these initiatives, we may not be able to deploy them in a timely fashion. Accordingly, the costs and benefits from our investments in new technologies and the consequent effects on our financial results may vary from present expectations.Issues arising during the implementation of our enterprise resource planning system could affect our operating results and ability to manage our business effectively.During fiscal year 2013, we implemented a new enterprise resource planning (ERP) system in two of our North America plants and in our corporate headquarters, which resulted in temporary business interruptions that adversely impacted our North America operating results. In April 2014, we implemented the ERP system in our European headquarters and our new recycling plant in Germany. As we implement new releases of the ERP system in other locations, we may experience temporary business interruptions that could adversely impact our operating results and our ability to report accurate quarterly results in a timely manner and comply with existing covenants in all our debt agreements. There is no assurance that the new ERP system will operate as designed, which could result in an adverse impact on our operating results, cash flows and financial condition.19Security breaches and other disruptions to our information technology networks and systems could interfere with our operations, and could compromise the confidentiality of our proprietary information.We rely upon information technology networks and systems, some of which are managed by third parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business and manufacturing processes and activities. Additionally, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, proprietary business information, as well as personally identifiable information of our employees, in data centers and on information technology networks. The secure operation of these information technology networks, and the processing and maintenance of this information is important to our business operations and strategy. Despite security measures and business continuity plans, our information technology networks and systems may be vulnerable to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to attacks by hackers or breaches due to errors or malfeasance by employees, contractors and others who have access to our networks and systems, or other disruptions during the process of upgrading or replacing computer software or hardware, power outages, computer viruses, telecommunication or utility failures or natural disasters or other catastrophic events. The occurrence of any of these events could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or regulatory penalties under laws protecting the privacy of personal information, disrupt operations and reduce the competitive advantage we hope to derive from our investment in new or proprietary business initiatives.Loss of our key management and other personnel, or an inability to attract and retain such management and other personnel, could adversely impact our business.We employ all of our senior executive officers and other highly-skilled key employees on an at-will basis, and their employment can be terminated by us or them at any time, for any reason and without notice, subject, in certain cases, to severance payment obligations. Competition for qualified employees among companies that rely heavily on engineering and technology is intense, and if our highly skilled key employees leave us, we may be unable to promptly attract and retain qualified replacement personnel, which could result in our inability to improve manufacturing operations, conduct research activities successfully, develop marketable products, execute expansion projects, and compete effectively for our share of the growth in key markets.Future acquisitions or divestitures may adversely affect our financial results. As part of our strategy for growth, we may pursue acquisitions, divestitures or strategic alliances, which may not be completed or, if completed, may not be ultimately beneficial to us. There are numerous risks commonly encountered in strategic transactions, including the risk that we may not be able to complete a transaction that has been announced, effectively integrate businesses acquired or generate the cost savings and synergies anticipated. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.Capital investments in organic growth initiatives may not produce the returns we anticipate. A significant element of our strategy is to invest in opportunities to increase the production capacity of our operating facilities through modifications of and investments in existing facilities and equipment and to evaluate other investments in organic growth in our target markets. In particular, over the past several years we have invested substantial resources into projects intended to raise the recycled content of our products, increase our global automotive finishing capacity and grow our portfolio of premium products. These projects involve numerous risks and uncertainties, including the risk that our forecasted demand levels prove to be inaccurate and the risk that aluminum price trends diminish the benefits we anticipate from our recycling investments. If our capital investments do not produce the benefits we anticipate, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We could be required to make unexpected contributions to our defined benefit pension plans as a result of adverse changes in interest rates and the capital markets. Most of our pension obligations relate to funded defined benefit pension plans for our employees in the U.S., the U.K. and Canada, unfunded pension benefits in Germany and lump sum indemnities payable to our employees in France, Italy, Korea and Malaysia upon retirement or termination. Our pension plan assets consist primarily of funds invested in listed stocks and bonds. Our estimates of liabilities and expenses for pensions and other postretirement benefits incorporate a number of assumptions, including expected long-term rates of return on plan assets and interest rates used to discount future benefits. Our results of operations, liquidity or shareholder's equity in a particular period could be adversely affected by capital market returns that are less than their assumed long-term rate of return or a decline of the rate used to discount future benefits.20If the assets of our pension plans do not achieve assumed investment returns for any period, such deficiency could result in one or more charges against our earnings. In addition, changing economic conditions, poor pension investment returns or other factors may require us to make unexpected cash contributions to the pension plans in the future, preventing the use of such cash for other purposes.We face risks relating to certain joint ventures and subsidiaries that we do not entirely control. Some of our activities are, and will in the future be, conducted through entities that we do not entirely control or wholly-own. These entities include our Norf, Germany; and Logan, Kentucky joint ventures, as well as our majority-owned Malaysian subsidiary. Our Malaysian subsidiary is a public company whose shares are listed for trading on the Bursa Malaysia. Under the governing documents, agreements or securities laws applicable to or stock exchange listing rules relative to certain of these joint ventures and subsidiaries, our ability to fully control certain operational matters may be limited. Further, in some cases we do not have rights to prevent a joint venture partner from selling its joint venture interests to a third party.Hindalco and its interests as equity holder may conflict with the interests of the holders of our senior notes in the future. Novelis is an indirectly wholly-owned subsidiary of Hindalco. As a result, Hindalco may exercise control over our decisions to enter into any corporate transaction or capital restructuring and has the ability to approve or prevent any transaction that requires the approval of our shareholder. Hindalco may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in its judgment, could enhance its equity investment, even though such transactions might involve risks to holders of our Senior Notes.Additionally, Hindalco operates in the aluminum industry and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete, directly or indirectly, with us. Hindalco has no obligation to provide us with financing and is able to sell their equity ownership in us at any time.If we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of primary aluminum, recycled aluminum, sheet ingot and other raw materials used in the production of our products, our ability to produce and deliver products or to manufacture products using the desired mix of metal inputs could be adversely affected. The supply risks relating to our metal inputs vary by input type. Our sheet ingot requirements have historically been supplied, in part, by Rio Tinto Alcan pursuant to agreements with us. For the year ended March 31, 2014, we purchased a majority of our third party sheet ingot requirements from Rio Tinto Alcan's primary metal group. If Rio Tinto Alcan or any other significant supplier of sheet ingot is unable to deliver sufficient quantities of this material on a timely basis, our production may be disrupted and our net sales, profitability and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Although aluminum is traded on the world markets, developing alternative suppliers of sheet ingot could be time consuming and expensive. Certain of our manufacturing operations rely on UBCs and other types of aluminum scrap for a portion of our base metal inputs. Competition for UBCs and other types of aluminum scrap is significant, and while we believe we will be able to obtain sufficient quantities to meet our production needs, if we are unable to do so, we could be required to purchase more expensive metal inputs which could have an adverse effect on our profitability and cash flows. Remelt ingot, which is traded on the LME, may become subject to supply risk created by supply and demand anomalies associated with speculative financing transactions. In a period of rapidly rising demand, restrictions on access to metal that is stored in LME warehouses or restrained in financing transactions could create shortages in the spot market which could interfere with supplies to our facilities and limit production. 21We face significant price and other forms of competition from other aluminum rolled products producers, which could hurt our results of operations and cash flows. Generally, the markets in which we operate are highly competitive. We compete primarily on the basis of our value proposition, including price, product quality, ability to meet customers' specifications, range of products offered, lead times, technical support and customer service. Some of our competitors may benefit from greater capital resources, more efficient technologies, lower raw material and energy costs and may be able to sustain longer periods of price competition. In particular, we face increased competition from producers in China, which have significantly lower production costs and pricing. This lower pricing could erode the market prices of our products in the Chinese market and elsewhere.In addition, our competitive position within the global aluminum rolled products industry may be affected by, among other things, consolidation among our competitors, exchange rate fluctuations that may make our products less competitive in relation to the products of companies based in other countries (despite the U.S. dollar-based input cost and the marginal costs of shipping) and economies of scale in purchasing, production and sales, which accrue to the benefit of some of our competitors. For example, the price gap for aluminum between the Shanghai Futures Exchange and the LME may make our products manufactured in Asia based off LME prices less competitive compared to products manufactured by competitors in China based off SHFE prices.Increased competition could cause a reduction in our shipment volumes and profitability or increase our expenditures, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and cash flows.The end-use markets for certain of our products are highly competitive and customers are willing to accept substitutes for our products. The end-use markets for certain aluminum rolled products are highly competitive. Aluminum competes with other materials, such as steel, plastics, composite materials and glass, among others, for various applications, including in beverage and food cans, electronics and automotive end-use markets. In the past, customers have demonstrated a willingness to substitute other materials for aluminum. For example, changes in consumer preferences in beverage containers have increased the use of PET plastic containers and glass bottles in recent years. These trends may continue. The willingness of customers to accept substitutes for aluminum products could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and cash flows.We are subject to a broad range of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, and we may be exposed to substantial environmental, health and safety costs and liabilities. We are subject to a broad range of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. These laws and regulations impose stringent environmental, health and safety protection standards and permitting requirements regarding, among other things, air emissions, wastewater storage, treatment and discharges, the use and handling of hazardous or toxic materials, waste disposal practices, the remediation of environmental contamination, post-mining reclamation and working conditions for our employees. Some environmental laws, such as Superfund and comparable laws in U.S. states and other jurisdictions worldwide, impose joint and several liability for the cost of environmental remediation, natural resource damages, third party claims, and other expenses, without regard to the fault or the legality of the original conduct.The costs of complying with these laws and regulations, including participation in assessments and remediation of contaminated sites and installation of pollution control facilities, have been, and in the future could be, significant. In addition, these laws and regulations may also result in substantial environmental liabilities associated with divested assets, third party locations and past activities. In certain instances, these costs and liabilities, as well as related action to be taken by us, could be accelerated or increased if we were to close, divest of or change the principal use of certain facilities with respect to which we may have environmental liabilities or remediation obligations. Currently, we are involved in a number of compliance efforts, remediation activities and legal proceedings concerning environmental matters, including certain activities and proceedings arising under Superfund and comparable laws in U.S. states and other jurisdictions worldwide in which we have operations.22We have established liabilities for environmental remediation activities where appropriate. However, the cost of addressing environmental matters (including the timing of any charges related thereto) cannot be predicted with certainty, and these liabilities may not ultimately be adequate, especially in light of changing interpretations of laws and regulations by regulators and courts, the discovery of previously unknown environmental conditions, the risk of governmental orders to carry out additional compliance on certain sites not initially included in remediation in progress, our potential liability to remediate sites for which provisions have not been previously established and the adoption of more stringent environmental laws including, for example, the possibility of increased regulation of the use of bisphenol-A, a chemical component commonly used in the coating of aluminum cans. Such future developments could result in increased environmental costs and liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results or cash flows. Furthermore, the failure to comply with our obligations under the environmental laws and regulations could subject us to administrative, civil or criminal penalties, obligations to pay damages or other costs, and injunctions or other orders, including orders to cease operations. In addition, the presence of environmental contamination at our properties could adversely affect our ability to sell property, receive full value for a property or use a property as collateral for a loan. Some of our current and potential operations are located or could be located in or near communities that may regard such operations as having a detrimental effect on their social and economic circumstances. Community objections could have a material adverse impact upon the profitability or, in extreme cases, the viability of an operation. We use a variety of hazardous materials and chemicals in our rolling processes, as well as in our smelting operations in Brazil and in connection with maintenance work on our manufacturing facilities. Because of the nature of these substances or related residues, we may be liable for certain costs, including, among others, costs for health-related claims or removal or re-treatment of such substances. Certain of our current and former facilities incorporate asbestos-containing materials, a hazardous substance that has been the subject of health-related claims for occupational exposure. In addition, although we have developed environmental, health and safety programs for our employees, including measures to reduce employee exposure to hazardous substances, and conduct regular assessments at our facilities, we are currently, and in the future may be, involved in claims and litigation filed on behalf of persons alleging injury predominantly as a result of occupational exposure to substances or other hazards at our current or former facilities. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of these claims and lawsuits due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. If these claims and lawsuits, individually or in the aggregate, were finally resolved against us, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected.We may be exposed to significant legal proceedings or investigations. From time to time, we are involved in, or the subject of, disputes, proceedings and investigations with respect to a variety of matters, including environmental, health and safety, product liability, employee, tax, personal injury, contractual and other matters as well as other disputes and proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business. Certain of these matters are discussed in the preceding risk factor. Any claims against us or any investigations involving us, whether meritorious or not, could be costly to defend or comply with and could divert management's attention as well as operational resources. Any such dispute, litigation or investigation, whether currently pending or threatened or in the future, may have a material adverse effect on our financial results and cash flows.Product liability claims against us could result in significant costs or negatively impact our reputation and could adversely affect our business results and financial condition. We are sometimes exposed to warranty and product liability claims. There can be no assurance that we will not experience material product liability losses arising from individual suits or class actions alleging product liability defects or related claims in the future and that these will not have a negative impact on us. We generally maintain insurance against many product liability risks, but there can be no assurance that this coverage will be adequate for any liabilities ultimately incurred. In addition, there is no assurance that insurance will continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. A successful claim that exceeds our available insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and cash flows.23We may be affected by global climate change or by legal, regulatory, or market responses to such change. Increased concern over climate change has led to new and proposed legislative and regulatory initiatives, such as cap-and-trade systems and additional limits on emissions of greenhouse gases. New laws enacted could directly and indirectly affect our customers and suppliers (through an increase in the cost of production or their ability to produce satisfactory products) or our business (through an impact on our inventory availability, cost of sales, operations or demand for the products we sell), which could result in an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Compliance with any new or more stringent laws or regulations, or stricter interpretations of existing laws, could require additional expenditures by us, our customers or our suppliers. Also, we rely on natural gas, electricity, fuel oil and transport fuel to operate our facilities. Any increased costs of these energy sources because of new laws could be passed along to us and our customers and suppliers, which could also have a negative impact on our profitability.Income tax payments may ultimately differ from amounts currently recorded by the Company. Future tax law changes may materially increase the Company's prospective income tax expense. We are subject to income taxation in many jurisdictions. Judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax provision and accordingly there are many transactions and computations for which our final income tax determination is uncertain. We are routinely audited by income tax authorities in many tax jurisdictions. Although we believe the recorded tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate outcome from any audit (or related litigation) could be materially different from amounts reflected in our income tax provisions and accruals. Future settlements of income tax audits may have a material effect on earnings between the period of initial recognition of tax estimates in the financial statements and the point of ultimate tax audit settlement. Additionally, it is possible that future income tax legislation in any jurisdiction to which we are subject may be enacted that could have a material impact on our worldwide income tax provision beginning with the period that such legislation becomes effective.Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business. We have a relatively high degree of leverage. As of March 31, 2014, we had $5.2 billion of indebtedness outstanding. Our substantial indebtedness and interest expense could have important consequences to our company and holders of notes, including: •limiting our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes; •increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including volatility in LME aluminum prices; •limiting our ability to capitalize on business opportunities and to react to competitive pressures and adverse changes in government regulation; and •limiting our ability or increasing the costs to refinance indebtedness.The covenants in our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing our Senior Notes impose operating and financial restrictions on us. Our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing our senior notes impose certain operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries, among other things, to: •incur additional debt and provide additional guarantees; •pay dividends and make other restricted payments, including certain investments; •create or permit certain liens; •make certain asset sales; •use the proceeds from the sales of assets and subsidiary stock; •create or permit restrictions on the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to us; •engage in certain transactions with affiliates; •enter into sale and leaseback transactions; and •consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets or the assets of our restricted subsidiaries. See Note 11 - Debt for additional discussion.24Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.