Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, you should consider the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations in the future. The following factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ from those projected in any forward looking statements we make. Certain of our customers are significant to our revenues, and we could be adversely affected by changes in the business or financial condition of these significant customers or by the loss of their business. Our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 48%, 45%, 45%, and 47% of our total net sales for the year ended March 31, 2010; the year ended March 31, 2009; the period from May 16, 2007 through March 31, 2008; and the period from April 1, 2007 to May 15, 2007; respectively, with Rexam Plc, a leading global beverage can maker, and its affiliates representing approximately 16%, 17%, 15%, and 14%, of our total net sales in the respective periods. A significant downturn in the business or financial condition of our significant customers could materially adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. In addition, if our existing relationships with significant customers materially deteriorate or are terminated in the future, and we are not successful in replacing business lost from such customers, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. Some of the longer term contracts under which we supply our customers, including under umbrella agreements such as those described under “Item 1. Business — Our Customers,” are subject to renewal, renegotiation or re-pricing at periodic intervals or upon changes in competitive supply conditions. Our failure to successfully renew, renegotiate or re-price such agreements could result in a reduction or loss in customer purchase volume or revenue, and if we are not successful in replacing business lost from such customers, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. The markets in which we operate are competitive and customers may seek to consolidate supplier relationships or change suppliers to obtain cost savings and other benefits. Our results and cash flows can be negatively impacted by timing differences between the prices we pay under purchase contracts and metal prices we charge our customers. In some of our contracts there is a timing difference between the metal prices we pay under our purchase contracts and the metal prices we charge our customers. As a result, changes in metal prices impact our results, since during such periods we bear the additional cost or benefit of metal price changes, which could have a material effect on our profitability and cash flows. Our operations consume energy and our profitability and cash flows may decline if energy costs were to rise, or if our energy supplies were interrupted. We consume substantial amounts of energy in our rolling operations, cast house operations and Brazilian smelting operations. The factors that affect our energy costs and supply reliability tend to be specific to each of our facilities. A number of factors could materially adversely affect our energy position including: • increases in costs of natural gas; • significant increases in costs of supplied electricity or fuel oil related to transportation; • interruptions in energy supply due to equipment failure or other causes; 17 Table of Contents • the inability to extend energy supply contracts upon expiration on economical terms; and • the inability to pass through energy costs in certain sales contracts. In addition, global climate change may increase our costs of energy sources. See “Risk Factors — We may be affected by global climate change or by legal, regulatory, or market responses to such change.” If energy costs were to rise, or if energy supplies or supply arrangements were disrupted, our profitability and cash flows could decline. Economic conditions could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our financial condition and results of operations depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions. These economic conditions have deteriorated significantly in many countries and regions in which we do business. The difficult global market conditions in 2008 and 2009 resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets and extreme volatility in fixed income, currency and equity markets. We are unable to predict the timing and rate at which industry variables may recover. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions poses a risk as our customers may postpone purchases in response to tighter credit and negative financial news, which could adversely impact demand for our products. In addition, there can be no assurance that the actions we have taken or may take in response to the economic conditions will be sufficient to counter any continuation or reoccurrence of the downturn or disruptions. A protracted continuation or worsening of the global economic downturn or disruptions in the financial markets could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we use various derivative instruments to manage the risks arising from fluctuations in exchange rates, interest rates, aluminum prices and energy prices. We may be exposed to losses in the future if the counterparties to our derivative instruments fail to honor their agreements. We are subject to risks related to our indebtedness. As of March 31, 2010, we had $2.7 billion of indebtedness outstanding, including $1.3 billion of senior unsecured notes (Senior Notes) and borrowings of $1.2 billion under our senior secured credit facilities (Credit Agreements). We have two outstanding series of Senior Notes: 7.25% senior notes due 2015 and 11.5% senior notes due 2015. The Credit Agreements consist of (i) a $1.1 billion seven-year Term Loan facility (Term Loan facility) and (ii) an $800 million five year multi-currency asset-based revolving credit line and letter of credit facility (ABL facility). As of March 31, 2010, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur additional indebtedness of up to approximately $300 million, including secured indebtedness, in the future. Our indebtedness and interest expense could have consequences to our company and holders of our Senior Notes, including: • limiting our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including extreme volatility in London Metal Exchange (LME) prices; • limiting our ability to capitalize on business opportunities and to react to competitive pressures and adverse changes in government regulation; and • limiting our ability or increasing the costs to refinance indebtedness. 18 Table of Contents The covenants in our Credit Agreements and the indentures governing our Senior Notes impose significant operating restrictions on us. The Credit Agreements and the indentures governing the Senior Notes impose significant operating restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries, among other things, to: • incur additional debt and provide additional guarantees; • pay dividends and make other restricted payments, including certain investments; • create or permit certain liens; • make certain asset sales; • use the proceeds from the sales of assets and subsidiary stock; • create or permit restrictions on the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to us; • engage in certain transactions with affiliates; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; and • consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets or the assets of our restricted subsidiaries. In addition, under the ABL facility, if our excess availability under the ABL facility is less than 10% of the lender commitments under the ABL facility or 10% of the borrowing base, we are required to maintain a minimum fixed charge ratio of at least 1 to 1. As of March 31, 2010, our fixed charge coverage ratio was greater than 2 to 1 and our excess availability was $603, or 75% of the lender commitments under the ABL facility. A deterioration of our financial position or a downgrade of our ratings by a credit rating agency could increase our borrowing costs and our business relationships could be adversely affected. A deterioration of our financial position or a downgrade of our ratings for any reason could increase our borrowing costs and have an adverse effect on our business relationships with customers, suppliers and hedging counterparties. From time to time, we enter into various forms of hedging activities against currency or metal price fluctuations and trade metal contracts on the LME. Financial strength and credit ratings are important to the availability and pricing of these hedging and trading activities. As a result, any downgrade of our credit ratings may make it more costly for us to engage in these activities, and changes to our level of indebtedness may make it more difficult or costly for us to engage in these activities in the future. Adverse changes in currency exchange rates could negatively affect our financial results and cash flows and the competitiveness of our aluminum rolled products relative to other materials. Our businesses and operations are exposed to the effects of changes in the exchange rates of the U.S. dollar, the euro, the British pound, the Brazilian real, the Canadian dollar, the Korean won and other currencies. We have implemented a hedging policy that attempts to manage currency exchange rate risks to an acceptable level based on management’s judgment of the appropriate trade-off between risk, opportunity and cost; however, this hedging policy may not successfully or completely eliminate the effects of currency exchange rate fluctuations which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and cash flows. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in U.S. dollars, but a portion of our earnings and expenditures are denominated in other currencies, primarily the euro, the Korean won and the Brazilian real. Changes in exchange rates will result in increases or decreases in our reported costs and earnings and may also affect the book value of our assets located outside the U.S. 19 Table of Contents Most of our facilities are staffed by a unionized workforce, and union disputes and other employee relations issues could materially adversely affect our financial results. Approximately 69% of our employees are represented by labor unions under a large number of collective bargaining agreements with varying durations and expiration dates. We may not be able to satisfactorily renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements when they expire. In addition, existing collective bargaining agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage at our facilities in the future, and any such work stoppage could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and cash flows. Our operations have been and will continue to be exposed to various business and other risks, changes in conditions and events beyond our control in countries where we have operations or sell products. We are, and will continue to be, subject to financial, political, economic and business risks in connection with our global operations. We have made investments and carry on production activities in various emerging markets, including Brazil, Korea and Malaysia, and we market our products in these countries, as well as China and certain other countries in Asia, the Middle East and emerging markets in South America. While we anticipate higher growth or attractive production opportunities from these emerging markets, they also present a higher degree of risk than more developed markets. In addition to the business risks inherent in developing and servicing new markets, economic conditions may be more volatile, legal and regulatory systems less developed and predictable, and the possibility of various types of adverse governmental action more pronounced. In addition, inflation, fluctuations in currency and interest rates, competitive factors, civil unrest and labor problems could affect our revenues, expenses and results of operations. Our operations could also be adversely affected by acts of war, terrorism or the threat of any of these events as well as government actions such as controls on imports, exports and prices, tariffs, new forms of taxation, or changes in fiscal regimes and increased government regulation in the countries in which we operate or service customers. Unexpected or uncontrollable events or circumstances in any of these markets could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and cash flows. We could be adversely affected by disruptions of our operations. Breakdown of equipment or other events, including catastrophic events such as war or natural disasters, leading to production interruptions in our plants could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and cash flows. Further, because many of our customers are, to varying degrees, dependent on planned deliveries from our plants, those customers that have to reschedule their own production due to our missed deliveries could pursue claims against us. We may incur costs to correct any of these problems, in addition to facing claims from customers. Further, our reputation among actual and potential customers may be harmed, resulting in a loss of business. While we maintain insurance policies covering, among other things, physical damage, business interruptions and product liability, these policies would not cover all of our losses. Our goodwill and other intangible assets could become impaired, which could require us to take non-cash charges against earnings. We assess, at least annually and potentially more frequently, whether the value of our goodwill and other intangible assets has been impaired. Any impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets as a result of such analysis would result in a non-cash charge against earnings, which charge could materially adversely affect our reported results of operations. A significant and sustained decline in our future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the economic environment or slower growth rates could result in the need to perform additional impairment analysis in future periods. If we were to conclude that a future write-down of goodwill or other intangible assets is necessary, then we would record such additional charges, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. 20 Table of Contents As part of our ongoing evaluation of our operations, we may undertake additional restructuring efforts in the future which could in some instances result in significant severance-related costs, environmental remediation expenses and impairment and other restructuring charges. We recorded restructuring charges of $14 million for the year ended March 31, 2010 and $95 million for the year ended March 31, 2009. During this two year period, we announced, among others, the following restructuring actions and programs: • a voluntary separation program for salaried employees in North America and the corporate office aimed at reducing staff levels; • cessation of commercial grade alumina at our Ouro Preto facility in Brazil; • the closure of our aluminum sheet mill in Rogerstone, South Wales, UK; • a restructuring plan to streamline operations at our Rugles facility located in Upper Normandy, France; and • a voluntary retirement program in Asia. We may take additional restructuring actions in the future. Any additional restructuring efforts could result in significant severance-related costs, environmental remediation expenses, impairment charges, restructuring charges and related costs and expenses, which could adversely affect our profitability and cash flows. We may not be able to successfully develop and implement new technology initiatives in a timely manner. We have invested in, and are involved with, a number of technology and process initiatives. Several technical aspects of these initiatives are still unproven, and the eventual commercial outcomes cannot be assessed with any certainty. Even if we are successful with these initiatives, we may not be able to deploy them in a timely fashion. Accordingly, the costs and benefits from our investments in new technologies and the consequent effects on our financial results may vary from present expectations. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, we may have material misstatements in our financial statements and we may not be able to report our financial results in a timely manner. Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to provide a report by management in our Form 10-K on internal control over financial reporting, including management’s assessment of the effectiveness of such control. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only some assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may be unable to provide financial information in a timely and reliable manner. Any such difficulties or failure may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Loss of our key management and other personnel, or an inability to attract such management and other personnel, could adversely impact our business. We depend on our senior executive officers and other key personnel to run our business. The loss of any of these officers or other key personnel could materially adversely affect our operations. Competition for qualified employees among companies that rely heavily on engineering and technology is intense, and the loss of qualified employees or an inability to attract, retain and motivate additional highly skilled employees required for the operation and expansion of our business could hinder our ability to improve manufacturing operations, conduct research activities successfully and develop marketable products. 21 Table of Contents Future acquisitions or divestitures may adversely affect our financial condition. As part of our strategy for growth, we may pursue acquisitions, divestitures or strategic alliances, which may not be completed or, if completed, may not be ultimately beneficial to us. There are numerous risks commonly encountered in business combinations, including the risk that we may not be able to complete a transaction that has been announced, effectively integrate businesses acquired or generate the cost savings and synergies anticipated. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We could be required to make unexpected contributions to our defined benefit pension plans as a result of adverse changes in interest rates and the capital markets. Most of our pension obligations relate to funded defined benefit pension plans for our employees in the U.S., the U.K. and Canada, unfunded pension benefits in Germany and lump sum indemnities payable to our employees in France, Italy, Korea and Malaysia upon retirement or termination. Our pension plan assets consist primarily of funds invested in listed stocks and bonds. Our estimates of liabilities and expenses for pensions and other postretirement benefits incorporate a number of assumptions, including expected long-term rates of return on plan assets and interest rates used to discount future benefits. Our results of operations, liquidity or shareholders’ equity in a particular period could be adversely affected by capital market returns that are less than their assumed long-term rate of return or a decline of the rate used to discount future benefits. If the assets of our pension plans do not achieve assumed investment returns for any period, such deficiency could result in one or more charges against our earnings for that period. In addition, changing economic conditions, poor pension investment returns or other factors may require us to make unexpected cash contributions to the pension plans in the future, preventing the use of such cash for other purposes. We face risks relating to certain joint ventures and subsidiaries that we do not entirely control. Our ability to access cash from these entities may be more restricted than if such entities were wholly-owned subsidiaries. Some of our activities are, and will in the future be, conducted through entities that we do not entirely control or wholly own. These entities include our Norf, Germany; Logan, Kentucky; and Evermore Recycling joint ventures, as well as our majority-owned Korean and Malaysian subsidiaries. Our Malaysian subsidiary is a public company whose shares are listed for trading on the Bursa Malaysia. Under the governing documents, agreements or securities laws applicable to or stock exchange listing rules relative to certain of these joint ventures and subsidiaries, our ability to fully control certain operational matters may be limited. In addition, we do not solely determine certain key matters, such as the timing and amount of cash distributions from these entities. As a result, our ability to access cash from these entities may be more restricted than if they were wholly-owned entities. Hindalco and its interests as equity holder may conflict with the interests of the holders of our Senior Notes in the future. Novelis is an indirectly wholly-owned subsidiary of Hindalco. As a result, Hindalco may exercise control over our decisions to enter into any corporate transaction or capital restructuring and has the ability to approve or prevent any transaction that requires the approval of our shareholder. Hindalco may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in its judgment, could enhance its equity investment, even though such transactions might involve risks to us or the holders of our Senior Notes. Additionally, Hindalco operates in the aluminum industry and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete, directly or indirectly, with us. Hindalco has no obligation to provide us with financing and is able to sell their equity ownership in us at any time. 22 Table of Contents We have supply agreements with Rio Tinto Alcan for a portion of our raw materials requirements. If Rio Tinto Alcan is unable to deliver sufficient quantities of these materials or if it terminates these agreements, our ability to manufacture products on a timely basis could be adversely affected. The manufacture of our products requires sheet ingot that has historically been, in part, supplied by Rio Tinto Alcan. For the year ended March 31, 2010, we purchased the majority of our third party sheet ingot requirements from Rio Tinto Alcan’s primary metal group. Our metal supply agreements for the purchase of sheet ingot from Rio Tinto Alcan have terms and conditions substantially similar to market terms and conditions and were amended effective as of January 1, 2008. If Rio Tinto Alcan is unable to deliver sufficient quantities of this material on a timely basis or if Rio Tinto Alcan terminates one or more of these agreements, our production may be disrupted and our net sales, profitability and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Although aluminum is traded on the world markets, developing alternative suppliers for that portion of our raw material requirements we expect to be supplied by Rio Tinto Alcan could be time consuming and expensive. Our continuous casting operations at our Saguenay Works, Canada facility depend upon a local supply of molten aluminum from Rio Tinto Alcan. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010, Rio Tinto Alcan’s primary metal group supplied most of the molten aluminum used at Saguenay Works. In connection with the spin-off, we entered into a metal supply agreement on terms determined primarily by Rio Tinto Alcan for the continued purchase of molten aluminum from Rio Tinto Alcan. If this supply were to be disrupted, our Saguenay Works production could be interrupted and our net sales, profitability and cash flows materially adversely affected. The adoption of derivatives legislation by Congress could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business and on the cost of our hedging activities. We use over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives products to hedge our metal commodity risks and, to a lesser extent, our interest rate and currency risks. The U.S. Congress is currently considering legislation to increase the regulatory oversight of the OTC derivatives markets and to impose restrictions on certain derivative transactions, which could affect the use of derivatives in hedging transactions. Although it is not possible at this time to predict whether or when Congress may act on derivatives legislation, any legislative changes that subject us to additional capital or margin requirements or other restrictions on our trading and commodity positions could have an adverse effect on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business and on the cost of our hedging activities. We face significant price and other forms of competition from other aluminum rolled products producers, which could hurt our results of operations and cash flows. Generally, the markets in which we operate are highly competitive. We compete primarily on the basis of our value proposition, including price, product quality, ability to meet customers’ specifications, range of products offered, lead times, technical support and customer service. Some of our competitors may benefit from greater capital resources, have more efficient technologies, have lower raw material and energy costs and may be able to sustain longer periods of price competition. In particular, we face increased competition from producers in China, which have significantly lower production costs and pricing. This lower pricing could erode the market prices of our products in the Chinese market. In addition, our competitive position within the global aluminum rolled products industry may be affected by, among other things, the recent trend toward consolidation among our competitors, exchange rate fluctuations that may make our products less competitive in relation to the products of companies based in other countries (despite the U.S. dollar-based input cost and the marginal costs of shipping) and economies of scale in purchasing, production and sales, which accrue to the benefit of some of our competitors. For example, the price gap between the Shanghai Futures Exchange (SHFE) and the London Metal Exchange (LME) may make products manufactured in China with SHFE prices for aluminum more competitive compared to our products manufactured in Asia with LME prices for aluminum. Increased competition could cause a reduction in our shipment volumes and profitability or increase our expenditures, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and cash flows. 23 Table of Contents The end-use markets for certain of our products are highly competitive and customers are willing to accept substitutes for our products. The end-use markets for certain aluminum rolled products are highly competitive. Aluminum competes with other materials, such as steel, plastics, composite materials and glass, among others, for various applications, including in beverage and food cans and automotive end-use markets. In the past, customers have demonstrated a willingness to substitute other materials for aluminum. For example, changes in consumer preferences in beverage containers have increased the use of PET plastic containers and glass bottles in recent years. These trends may continue. The willingness of customers to accept substitutes for aluminum products could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and cash flows. The seasonal nature of some of our customers’ industries could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and cash flows. The construction industry and the consumption of beer and soda are sensitive to weather conditions and as a result, demand for aluminum rolled products in the construction industry and for can feedstock can be seasonal. Our quarterly financial results could fluctuate as a result of climatic changes, and a prolonged series of cold summers in the different regions in which we conduct our business could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and cash flows. We are subject to a broad range of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, and we may be exposed to substantial environmental, health and safety costs and liabilities. We are subject to a broad range of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. These laws and regulations impose increasingly stringent environmental, health and safety protection standards and permitting requirements regarding, among other things, air emissions, wastewater storage, treatment and discharges, the use and handling of hazardous or toxic materials, waste disposal practices, the remediation of environmental contamination, post-mining reclamation and working conditions for our employees. Some environmental laws, such as Superfund and comparable laws in U.S. states and other jurisdictions worldwide, impose joint and several liability for the cost of environmental remediation, natural resource damages, third party claims, and other expenses, without regard to the fault or the legality of the original conduct. The costs of complying with these laws and regulations, including participation in assessments and remediation of contaminated sites and installation of pollution control facilities, have been, and in the future could be, significant. In addition, these laws and regulations may also result in substantial environmental liabilities associated with divested assets, third party locations and past activities. In certain instances, these costs and liabilities, as well as related action to be taken by us, could be accelerated or increased if we were to close, divest of or change the principal use of certain facilities with respect to which we may have environmental liabilities or remediation obligations. Currently, we are involved in a number of compliance efforts, remediation activities and legal proceedings concerning environmental matters, including certain activities and proceedings arising under Superfund and comparable laws in U.S. states and other jurisdictions worldwide in which we have operations, including Brazil and certain countries in the European Union. We have established reserves for environmental remediation activities and liabilities where appropriate. However, the cost of addressing environmental matters (including the timing of any charges related thereto) cannot be predicted with certainty, and these reserves may not ultimately be adequate, especially in light of potential changes in environmental conditions, changing interpretations of laws and regulations by regulators and courts, the discovery of previously unknown environmental conditions, the risk of governmental orders to carry out additional compliance on certain sites not initially included in remediation in progress, our potential liability to remediate sites for which provisions have not been previously established and the adoption of more stringent environmental laws. Such future developments could result in increased environmental costs and liabilities and could require significant capital expenditures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results or cash flows. Furthermore, the failure to comply with our obligations under 24 Table of Contents the environmental laws and regulations could subject us to administrative, civil or criminal penalties, obligations to pay damages or other costs, and injunctions or other orders, including orders to cease operations. In addition, the presence of environmental contamination at our properties could adversely affect our ability to sell property, receive full value for a property or use a property as collateral for a loan. Some of our current and potential operations are located or could be located in or near communities that may regard such operations as having a detrimental effect on their social and economic circumstances. Environmental laws typically provide for participation in permitting decisions, site remediation decisions and other matters. Concern about environmental justice issues may affect our operations. Should such community objections be presented to government officials, the consequences of such a development may have a material adverse impact upon the profitability or, in extreme cases, the viability of an operation. In addition, such developments may adversely affect our ability to expand or enter into new operations in such location or elsewhere and may also have an effect on the cost of our environmental remediation projects. We use a variety of hazardous materials and chemicals in our rolling processes, as well as in our smelting operations in Brazil and in connection with maintenance work on our manufacturing facilities. Because of the nature of these substances or related residues, we may be liable for certain costs, including, among others, costs for health-related claims or removal or re-treatment of such substances. Certain of our current and former facilities incorporate asbestos-containing materials, a hazardous substance that has been the subject of health-related claims for occupation exposure. In addition, although we have developed environmental, health and safety programs for our employees, including measures to reduce employee exposure to hazardous substances, and conduct regular assessments at our facilities, we are currently, and in the future may be, involved in claims and litigation filed on behalf of persons alleging injury predominantly as a result of occupational exposure to substances or other hazards at our current or former facilities. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of these claims and lawsuits due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. If these claims and lawsuits, individually or in the aggregate, were finally resolved against us, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. We may be exposed to significant legal proceedings or investigations. From time to time, we are involved in, or the subject of, disputes, proceedings and investigations with respect to a variety of matters, including environmental, health and safety, product liability, employee, tax, personal injury, contractual and other matters as well as other disputes and proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business. Certain of these matters are discussed in the preceding risk factor. Any claims against us or any investigations involving us, whether meritorious or not, could be costly to defend or comply with and could divert management’s attention as well as operational resources. Any such dispute, litigation or investigation, whether currently pending or threatened or in the future, may have a material adverse effect on our financial results and cash flows. For example, a lawsuit was commenced against Novelis Corporation on February 15, 2007 by Coca-Cola Bottler’s Sales and Services Company LLC (“CCBSS”) in Georgia state court. CCBSS is a consortium of Coca-Cola bottlers across the United States, including Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. CCBSS alleges that Novelis Corporation breached the terms of the “most favored nations” provision regarding certain pricing matters under an aluminum can stock supply agreement between the parties, and seeks monetary damages in an amount to be determined at trial and a declaration of its rights under the agreement. The dispute will likely turn on the facts that are presented to the court by the parties and the court’s finding as to how certain provisions of the agreement ought to be interpreted. If CCBSS were to prevail in this litigation, the amount of damages would likely be material. See “Item 3 — Legal Proceedings.” 25 Table of Contents Product liability claims against us could result in significant costs or negatively impact our reputation and could adversely affect our business results and financial condition. We are sometimes exposed to warranty and product liability claims. There can be no assurance that we will not experience material product liability losses arising from such claims in the future and that these will not have a negative impact on us. We generally maintain insurance against many product liability risks, but there can be no assurance that this coverage will be adequate for any liabilities ultimately incurred. In addition, there is no assurance that insurance will continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. A successful claim that exceeds our available insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and cash flows. We may be affected by global climate change or by legal, regulatory, or market responses to such change. There is a growing sentiment and concern over climate change, which has led to legislative and regulatory initiatives, such as cap-and-trade systems and increased limits on emissions of greenhouse gases. New laws enacted could directly and indirectly affect our customers and suppliers (through an increase in the cost of production or their ability to produce satisfactory products) or our business (through an impact on our inventory availability, cost of sales, operations or demand for the products we sell), which could result in an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Compliance with any new or more stringent laws or regulations, or stricter interpretations of existing laws, could require additional expenditures by us, our customers or our suppliers. Also, we rely on natural gas, electricity, fuel oil and transport fuel to operate our facilities. Any increased costs of these energy sources because of new laws could be passed along to us and our customers and suppliers, which could also have a negative impact on our profitability. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 