Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following information, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks that we currently do not know about or deem to be immaterial may also impair our business or results of operations. Any of the risks described below could result in a significant or material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Risks Related to Our Business Our failure to effectively analyze and monitor credit and other risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and capital adequacy. Our ability to analyze, monitor and manage credit risk is at the core of each of our business lines. All of our business lines will be materially impacted if we fail to do this effectively. In our Structured Credit business, if we fail to accurately analyze the credit and other risks associated with selling credit protection through our financial guaranty insurance products in our Structured Credit line of business, we may suffer unexpected losses, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our Public Finance business also depends significantly on our ability to effectively analyze and monitor credit risks. We guarantee obligations over an extended period of time, typically up to 30 years, and in riskier credit rating categories and sectors than the other financial guaranty insurance companies. As of December 31, 2006, based on our risk management internal rating systems, 35.2% of our outstanding Public Finance net par exposure was rated non-investment grade. We have also targeted certain industry sectors, such as health care and long-term care, which are higher risk credits than those exposures typically taken by other financial guaranty insurers. We have in the past, and expect in the future to, incur losses in our Public Finance portfolio. If we do not accurately assess the credit risk and the related security and structural protections in these transactions and effectively monitor and manage these risks on an ongoing basis, we may incur significant losses in excess of our expectations. Our future success in structuring and managing CDOs will depend on our ability to accurately analyze the financial assets that comprise the CDOs. We manage our CDO portfolio by attempting to sell deteriorating credits in a timely manner in order to mitigate losses as they develop; however, we may not be able to do so or we may not be able to do so without incurring losses. If we do not effectively manage our CDOs, our reputation as a CDO asset manager could be negatively affected, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to originate future CDOs. In some cases, we also bear a portion of the risk associated with credit losses if there are defaults or assets otherwise become ineligible for inclusion in a CDO during the warehousing phase. See “Business—CDO Asset Management—Origination and Structuring of CDOs.” Furthermore, since we also own at least some portion, or in our earlier CDOs, all or most, of the first loss or equity tranche in our CDOs, if we experience losses in excess of our modeled expectations we could experience returns below our expectations or lose a portion or all of our equity interests in those CDOs. Our original aggregate first loss, or equity, position in our CDOs was $209.1 million as of December 31, 2006. We face risks from the concentration of our liabilities and investments. We face concentration risks in all of our businesses. While we seek diversification across our businesses, in each of our business lines and in ACA Financial Guaranty’s investment portfolio, we face risks to the extent that our aggregate exposure to losses is concentrated geographically, by industry, sector, obligor or type of credit or investment. A large portion of the financial assets included in our CDOs are residential MBS, or RMBS, which present concentration risk to the national housing market. As of December 31, 2006, there was 30 $10.4 billion of RMBS in our CDO assets under management. Current market trends indicate higher delinquency and foreclosure rates in the 2006 vintage of sub-prime residential mortgages. As of December 31, 2006, six of our 22 CDOs in which we owned equity had material exposure to the 2006 sub-prime vintage. Four of these CDOs assume exposure to RMBS below the A-/A3 level and ACA has an aggregate exposure to them of approximately $55.7 million, and two of these CDOs assume exposure to RMBS at or above the A-/A3 level ACA has an aggregate exposure to them of approximately $35.5 million. Depending on the severity of actual defaults on the 2006 vintage subprime mortgages underlying these RMBS, we may experience substantially reduced returns on our equity investments in these CDOs. Further, we cannot be certain that actual defaults will not exceed our expectations based on our modeled scenarios and that we will not sustain actual losses in respect of some or all of our equity in these six CDOs. In addition, poor performance in our CDOs relating to this issue could also hurt out reputation as an asset manager making it difficult for us to continue to originate CDOs in the future. As well, to the extent our CDOs continue to acquire RMBS, there is no certainty as to how future vintages of residential mortgages will perform. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations—CDO Asset Management.” Additionally, some of the mortgages underlying our other CDO exposures include interest only payments which are due to reset in the coming years. The reset of these mortgages to include interest plus principal payments may also cause an increase in obligor defaults of these mortgages. In addition, a significant portion of the assets securing the RMBS that we buy are secured by mortgages on properties in California and to a lesser extent in New York and Florida. Should one of those states specifically experience an economic downturn or natural disaster resulting in significant defaults on mortgages issued in that state, certain RMBS purchased into our CDOs may also experience defaults or lower market values. The occurrence of defaults in RMBS, could materially negatively impact the performance of our CDOs generally, making it difficult for us to continue to sponsor CDOs, and cause us to experience returns below our expectations on, or lose a portion or all of, our equity investment in our CDOs. A lower rate of appreciation of home values, or depreciation of home prices, either nationally or regionally, particularly in areas where we have concentrated exposure, may increase the severity of the economic impact of this risk. We also have exposure to RMBS underlying our insured credit swaps in our Structured Credit business. Should there be significant defaults on mortgages underlying RMBS in such insured credit swaps, we could also experience an increased number of credit events in our synthetic ABS structured credit transactions. Our corporate synthetic CDOs, CLOs and Structured Credit transactions may include concentrations in particular industries or in geographical regions or in highly correlated industries and geographical regions. In the event that a particular industry or region experiences an economic downturn or natural disaster, the performance of our synthetic CDOs or CLOs may be materially negatively impacted. We may also experience significant numbers of credit events in relation to the reference entities included in the portfolios against which we sell protection in our Structured Credit transactions. Should such events occur, we could experience returns below our expectations on, or lose a portion or all of our equity investments in, our CDOs. Such an occurrence could harm our ability to continue to originate CDOs. Each of these events could materially and adversely impact our liquidity position as well as the adequacy of our capital. In our Public Finance business we face default risk from the concentration of our exposure in certain states and in certain industries. As of December 31, 2006, $1,020.2 million, or 16.6%, of our outstanding gross par exposure was concentrated in California, and $2,659.2 million, or 43.4%, of our outstanding gross par exposure was concentrated in nine additional states. This concentration increases our vulnerability to economic downturns, natural disasters, or terrorist attacks in those states. In addition, as of December 31, 2006, $1,504.2 million, or 24.5% of our outstanding gross par exposure, was related to higher education and $1,545.2 million, or 25.2%, of our outstanding gross par exposure was in the healthcare and long-term care sectors. Both the health care and long-term care sectors are facing rising costs and revenue constraints. As a result, health care and long-term care are perceived to be higher risks than other 31 segments of the public finance market. These factors could undermine the assumptions we made in our credit analysis of the issuers in those sectors and cause actual losses to exceed estimated losses. General economic and market factors may materially adversely affect our loss experience, the demand for our products and our financial results. Our business is impacted by general economic and market conditions. We could experience decreased demand for our products or incur losses due to extended economic recessions, business failures, interest rate changes or volatility, credit spread volatility, capital markets volatility, or changes in investor perceptions about the value of CDO securities or financial guaranty insurance products, or combinations of such factors. Additionally, terrorist attacks of significant scale could cause volatility in the financial markets, particularly in the credit markets, and uncertainty in the economies of the areas in which they occur and in the global economy. The market for the sale of credit protection under insured credit swaps and, consequently, related premiums are affected by a number of economic and market factors not within our control. The occurrence of credit events with respect to reference entities, for instance, such as bankruptcy or the failure to pay indebtedness, may be caused by cyclicality of the economy in general, industry cyclicality or credit events within the industry and capital market volatility generally, which may impact the supply and demand conditions in the credit swap market. Our financial results depend to a significant degree upon the premiums that we receive for the sale of our insurance products through our credit swaps. These premiums are established at origination of the transaction and are generally a function of both absolute credit spreads and the level of correlation among credit portfolios and the movement of related spreads, each of which change over time as a result of changes in the overall economy, supply and demand conditions in the credit swap market and other factors affecting the corporate credit market in general. If a low credit swap premium environment persists, we may not be able to achieve profitable growth or profits or growth at all, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our results of operations. We can give no assurance that the credit swap market will continue to grow as it has in recent periods or at all or that it will not decline. Any such decline could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Prevailing interest rates affect demand for financial guaranty insurance in the public finance market. Higher interest rates may result in declines in new bond issuances and refunding volumes which may reduce demand for our financial guaranty products. Lower interest rates generally are accompanied by narrower interest rate spreads between insured and uninsured obligations resulting in lower cost savings to issuers from the use of financial guaranty insurance than is the case during periods of higher interest rates. These lower cost savings could be accompanied by a corresponding decrease in demand for financial guaranty insurance or lower pricing for our products. The performance of our CDOs and our ability to originate future CDOs may be materially adversely affected by any of these factors or by a combination of these factors. Changes in the level of credit spreads (i.e., the difference in rates between risky securities and risk remote securities, such as U.S. Treasury securities) can affect our ability to acquire financial assets for our CDOs that create sufficient spread in the transaction to pay the CDO liabilities and the fees and expenses of the CDO, including our asset management fees. If we are unable to acquire assets with sufficient spread, we may not be able to be paid all or any portion of our asset management fees on our existing CDOs and we may not be able to continue to originate additional CDOs of the size of our current CDOs or at all. Also, the CDOs may pay returns below our expectations or not pay returns at all which could negatively impact our equity returns and the overall performance of our CDOs. Poor performance in our CDOs could also hurt our reputation as an asset manager. 32 If S&P lowers the financial strength rating that it has assigned to ACA Financial Guaranty, our ability to generate new business in our Structured Credit and Public Finance business lines, as well as our results of operations and liquidity would be materially adversely affected. ACA Financial Guaranty, our insurance subsidiary, has an “A” financial strength rating from S&P with a “stable” outlook. This rating is crucial to our Structured Credit and Public Finance businesses as well as our ongoing business strategy. This rating is subject to periodic review by S&P, and S&P may revise or withdraw its rating at any time at its sole discretion. Such an action may be based on factors which are entirely outside of our control, such as changes in the views or the policies of the rating agencies in relation to the financial guaranty industry, changes to the risk profile of ACA Financial Guaranty’s insurance portfolio or to other factors considered by S&P in providing such rating, or adverse developments in general economic conditions or the financial condition or results of operations of ACA Financial Guaranty. In addition, the financial strength rating of financial guaranty companies is based in part on the maintenance of specified amounts of resources available to pay claims. As our business grows, we may need additional capital and we may not be able to raise such capital. S&P’s stable ratings outlook on ACA Financial Guaranty assumes that our insurance subsidiaries will continue to satisfy S&P’s current minimum capital requirement of $300 million. As of December 31, 2006, ACA Financial Guaranty met this capital requirement with statutory capital of $387.1 million. Further, S&P may revise its capital requirements for A-rated financial guarantor insurance companies at any time. A change in applicable capital requirements or the incurrence of losses in excess of our expectations could diminish our capital below required rating agency levels. For instance, in 2004, we had to raise capital in response to an increase in S&P capital requirements. It may be difficult or costly for us to raise the additional capital necessary to satisfy the rating agency levels. Although we currently intend to operate our business in a manner that maintains our “A” rating, we are under no obligation to do so and we may not be able to do so. If S&P were to downgrade our financial strength rating, put us on its CreditWatch negative list or change its outlook for us to negative, our reputation and financial performance in the structured credit and public finance industries could be materially adversely affected, which in turn could materially adversely impact our financial performance. CreditWatch highlights the potential direction of a rating, focusing on identifiable events and short-term trends that cause ratings to be placed under special surveillance by S&P. Ratings appear on CreditWatch negative when such an event or a deviation from an expected trend occurs and S&P needs additional information to evaluate the rating. Our Structured Credit business would also be negatively affected by a downgrade of ACA Financial Guaranty’s financial strength rating to below “A” or a withdrawal of our rating. Since ACA Financial Guaranty insures our credit swaps and our counterparties rely on ACA Financial Guaranty’s financial strength rating when entering into transaction with us, we might be unable to enter into any new insured credit swap transactions and we could be required to provide collateral in the form of cash or securities securing our obligations under most of our existing insured credit swaps and any new credit swaps that we may enter. In addition, under the terms of our credit agreement, to the extent we had outstanding borrowings under this facility, these borrowings would become due immediately, and we would be unable to make future borrowings, if our financial strength rating falls below “A-.” Such collateral posting requirements and acceleration of our existing line of credit could severely disrupt our business and materially negatively impact our liquidity and reputation. It could also severely strain our capital resources thereby putting us at a competitive disadvantage. 33 In our Structured Credit business we have contingent collateral posting requirements that in adverse circumstances may severely strain our liquidity and capital resources. If ACA Financial Guaranty’s financial strength rating is downgraded below “A-,” we are required to post collateral in excess of negotiated threshold amounts with respect to most of our existing insured credit swaps in the amount of any negative mark to market fair value of the credit swap. Additionally, should credit events or, in some circumstances, negative credit migration occur with respect to the reference entities included in our various Structured Credit transaction portfolios resulting in losses above pre-agreed-upon levels or, in some circumstances, a downgrade of our position to below a pre-set level, we are generally required to post collateral in an amount that is the lesser of the amount by which actual losses exceed this pre-agreed point and the amount of any negative mark to market fair value of the credit swap. Posting collateral could materially and adversely impact our liquidity and our ability to enter into future insured credit swaps. We may not have sufficient liquidity to meet any posting requirements depending on the size of the negative mark and/or the level of losses at the time we are required to post collateral. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” In our Structured Credit business we are dependent on counterparties’ perception of our creditworthiness. Before counterparties in our Structured Credit business enter into insured credit swaps with us, they analyze our financial condition, particularly the financial condition of ACA Financial Guaranty. They establish credit exposure limits to us based on their assessment of our financial condition, and monitor the appropriateness of these limits on an ongoing basis to limit the amount of risk they take should we be financially unable to make any payments we owe them. Once a counterparty reaches its credit exposure limit to us, the counterparty generally will not enter into any additional transactions with us until such counterparty’s credit limit with us is increased. In the event these counterparty credit limits are not increased as our insured credit swap portfolio expands, or if limits are reduced due to changes in our financial position or general economic conditions, prevailing levels of credit spread or other reasons, our financial performance would suffer. The growth of our Structured Credit business, in particular, will be materially impacted if we cannot maintain and increase the lines of credit with our existing counterparties and increase the number of counterparties willing to transact with us. We can give no assurance that additional financial institutions will become our counterparties or that existing counterparties will not reduce their exposure to us. We may need to refinance our existing debt and otherwise require additional capital in the future, which may not be available or may only be available on unfavorable terms. To the extent that our existing capital or the funds generated from our operations are insufficient to meet our future requirements, we may need to raise additional funds through financings. If additional funds are unavailable, we may need to curtail our growth, change our business strategy or sell assets. In addition, we will have to refinance our medium-term note program, which matures in 2010 and which date is in advance of the maturity date of many of the assets acquired with the proceeds of such issuance. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Indebtedness.” Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. Equity or debt we may issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of the current common stock and may contain covenants or restrictions that hamper our ability to operate our business. In the case of equity financings, our stockholders could experience material dilution. We may also need to obtain reinsurance in order to comply with state insurance regulatory and rating agency capital requirements and single risk limits as our business grows. If we need to seek additional reinsurance, such reinsurance may not be available at acceptable terms or at all. This could have a material adverse impact on our ability to grow our insurance business and could materially adversely affect our “A” rating and future results of operations. See “Business—Reinsurance” and “Business—Regulation.” 34 We assume construction and completion risk in our Public Finance transactions. In underwriting Public Finance transactions, we sometimes assume exposure to the credit during construction or otherwise prior to completion of the related project. In these projects, the risk of loss on a Public Finance transaction is typically most significant during the construction and completion phases. Construction costs may exceed expectations and available funding, and timing delays, which may be caused by construction delays, natural disasters or economic downturns that diminish demand for a project, will delay the production of revenue necessary to pay debt service on the insured bonds. Delays in revenue production may also be caused post construction by delays in the commencement of operations. These delays can be caused by a variety of factors including industry-specific concerns such as obtaining all required regulatory approvals. Such delays in the production of revenue may result in our payment of claims until the project is completed and revenue generated. In the event a project is not completed, a default of the guaranteed bonds may occur resulting in the payment of claims by us. Depending on the status of the construction, our recoveries may be materially less than our claims paid as we rely on our security interest in the land and project itself for recoveries. Such an occurrence could negatively impact our results of operations. Also, should we experience a high level of defaults on these credits, the losses incurred could materially adversely impact our capital adequacy as well as our financial strength rating. Our failure to accurately set our loss reserves may result in having to increase our loss reserves or make payments in excess of our loss reserves, which could materially and adversely impact our financial condition. We establish loss reserves on our non-derivative financial guaranty insurance exposures. Setting our loss reserves involves significant reliance upon estimates with regard to the probability, magnitude and timing of losses. Our reserves may prove to be inaccurate in material amounts, especially during an extended economic downturn. As of December 31, 2006, we had non-specific loss reserves of $21.9 million and gross case specific loss reserves of $20.2 million net of estimated recoveries. If our loss reserves are determined to be inadequate, we will be required to increase our loss reserves which would result in a corresponding reduction in our net income and stockholders’ equity in the period in which the deficiency is recognized. Sizable losses could have a material impact on our capital adequacy and, ultimately, S&P financial strength rating. In addition, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, is considering whether additional accounting guidance is necessary regarding methods of determining non-specific reserves. We may be required to significantly increase our loss reserves or restate our current reserve allocations as a result of FASB’s review. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.” We have legacy exposure on manufactured housing bonds we insured. In 1999, we insured 12 securitized manufactured housing bonds with a collective notional balance of $213.3 million. As of December 31, 2006, four of those bonds, with an aggregate notional balance of $63.7 million, are underperforming and have either been partially written down or are at risk of being written down. As of December 31, 2006, we had a reserve of $23.4 million to cover potential claims on these four bonds. We are currently paying claims on one bond and expect to begin paying claims on the other three in 2007 or 2008. Our reserve represents the present value of expected losses, discounted at the applicable treasury rate. This reserve may not prove to be adequate because the underlying losses may not be accurately predicted or our discount may be lower than the actual discount rate and therefore we may have to pay significantly more in claims than we have reserved. This could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. We are also currently paying periodic claims in respect of interest on one of the 12 insured bonds; however, as we expect to receive full recovery of such claims from payments on the underlying loans, we have not taken loss reserves in connection with this exposure. As of December 31, 2006, total claims paid, 35 net of recoveries, on this bond was $5.5 million. If, however, loss rates on the underlying portfolio of loans are materially higher than we expect, we may not receive some portion or any of the recoveries as we currently anticipate. Based on our analysis, as of December 31, 2006, we believe that a reserve is not currently required for any of the other manufactured housing bonds insured in 1999. Nonetheless, the current ratings on all but one of the 12 manufactured housing bonds have been materially downgraded from their initial ratings of “AA” and/or “Aa” by S&P, Moody’s Investor Services or Fitch Ratings Inc. and we cannot be certain that these bonds will not continue to deteriorate. We may be required to post additional reserves and we may have to pay claims with respect to such bonds. We may not be able to recover the amount of such payments. Changes in accounting rules relating to the financial guaranty industry could have a material adverse effect on the perception of our results of operations and that of other industry participants. In June 2005, the SEC asked the FASB to consider the accounting by financial guaranty insurers for claims liability recognition, premium recognition and deferred policy acquisition costs in addition to a then-existing request to review loss reserving accounting policies for the financial guaranty industry. The proposed guidance from this review is expected to be issued during 2007. When the FASB reaches a conclusion, it is possible that we and the financial guaranty insurance industry may be required to change some aspects of our and the industry’s relevant accounting policies. Changes in our accounting policies relating to the timing of premium and expense recognition could have a material effect on the perception of our results or operations and that of others in our industry. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates—FASB Financial Guaranty Insurance Project.” Certain of our CDOs must be consolidated in accordance with applicable accounting rules which introduces volatility into our balance sheet and statement of operations which may result in negative investor perception of us. Pursuant to FASB Financial Interpretation No. 46(R) (“FIN 46(R)”), we are required to consolidate into our balance sheet, assets and liabilities related to certain of our CDOs when we are deemed to be the primary beneficiary of the CDO vehicle. In general, this occurs when we own more than 35% of the equity of the vehicle. CDO assets are reflected on our balance sheet as fixed-maturity securities available for sale, at fair value. Although these CDOs are consolidated, we do not have the right to use the assets of the CDOs for general operations or in satisfaction of our corporate debt obligations. Similarly, the liabilities issued by the CDO are reflected on our balance sheet as debt. The consolidation of seven of our CDOs makes it more difficult for us to communicate economic trends and factors underlying our business. Additionally, losses in the asset portfolios that are consolidated could exceed our true economic risk. Our true economic risk is the amount of our equity investment in these CDOs. To the extent losses in the CDO asset portfolios exceed our associated equity investment, the financial statement impact is offset at CDO maturity, when the associated liabilities are written off; however, the potential interim mismatch may be significant and vary from period to period, which may not be understood by the market. This volatility could cause a negative investor perception of us and negatively impact our stock price. Pursuant to FIN 46(R), we are also required to consolidate the total assets of our Credit Fund. This consolidation presents the same issues in terms of an investor’s ability to understand our financial statements and financial condition and their potential perception of us. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates—Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (VIE) and Other Restricted Investments.” 36 Our net income may be volatile from reporting period to reporting period because a portion of the credit risk we assume is in the form of insured credit swaps and a number of our consolidated CDOs utilize interest rate swaps, both of which are derivatives and are accounted for under FAS 133/149, requiring that these instruments be marked to market. As credit spreads increase or decrease, the spreads on the underlying assets included in our portfolios referenced by our insured credit swaps in our Structured Credit and synthetic CDO transactions will also increase or decrease, which will result in changes to the fair value of the credit swaps. Furthermore, changes in demand for such products, changes in the applicable legal and regulatory environments and overall growth in this sector can also affect the fair value of our credit swaps. Our insured credit swaps meet the definition of derivatives under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards Nos. 133 and 149 (“FAS 133/149”). Derivatives must be accounted for either as assets or liabilities on the balance sheet and measured at fair mark to market value. Since market prices are generally not available on our insured credit swaps we estimate the fair value of these swaps by using modeling methodologies which may be less precise than using quoted market price. Although there is no cash flow effect from this “marking to market” as we enter into these insured credit swaps with an intent that they remain outstanding to maturity, changes in the fair value of the derivative are reported in our consolidated statement of operations, together with the fixed premiums payable to us under the contract, in net insured credit swap revenue and other net credit swap revenue and therefore will affect our reported earnings. The impact from this marking to market on our reported earnings could vary significantly from period to period. Volatility in our reported earnings, even if there is no ultimate cash impact, could cause a negative investor perception of us and negatively impact our stock price. Common events that may cause credit spreads to fluctuate on the underlying assets included in the portfolios referenced by our credit swaps include changes in the state of national or regional economic conditions, industry cyclicality, changes in the business or financial assets of a specific issuer of the underlying assets included in a referenced portfolio, such as the issuer’s competitive position within an industry, management changes, changes in the ratings of the underlying security, movements in interest rates, default or failure to pay interest, or any other factor leading investors to revise expectations about such issuer’s ability to pay principal and interest on its debt obligations. These events are outside of our control. Similarly, common events that may cause credit spreads on an underlying structured security referenced by a credit swap to fluctuate may include the occurrence and severity of collateral defaults, changes in demographic trends impacting the levels of credit enhancement, rating changes, changes in interest rates or prepayment speeds, or any other factor leading investors to revise expectations about the risk of the collateral or the ability of the servicer to collect payments on the underlying assets sufficient to pay principal and interest. In addition, our net income may be volatile due to the inclusion of interest rate swaps in certain of our CDO transactions, which must be marked to market under FAS 133/149. We use interest rate swaps to hedge the exposure to variable interest rates within our CDOs. These interest rate swaps also provide a cost effective form of financing for the placement fees and other initial costs of those CDOs. Interest rate swaps are derivatives under FAS 133/149 and are required to be marked to market; however, that portion of the mark to market associated with the financing of placement fees and other initial costs are required to flow through the consolidated statement of operations, and are recorded in net realized and unrealized gains (losses) on derivative instruments rather than being recorded directly in stockholders’ equity on our balance sheet where standard interest rate hedges would be recorded. This increases the volatility in our reported earnings which may be confusing to stockholders or, in the case of negative marks, materially adversely impact investors’ perception of us which could negatively impact our stock price. 37 We operate in competitive environments. The credit swap market is large, quickly evolving and highly competitive. Most of our competitors are more established, have long-term relationships with market participants and have substantially greater financial resources than we have. Additionally, no significant regulatory impediments necessarily exist for new participants entering the credit swap market under different business models, such as non-insurance business models. To the extent that new participants enter the credit swap market, competition may intensify further. We cannot assure you that increased competition will not materially and adversely affect the volume, pricing and the profitability of this business. The competitive environment for our Public Finance business principally comes from other forms of credit enhancement and the high yield municipal funds that are purchasing an increasing amount of high non-investment grade and unrated municipal debt. Continued growth by such competitors may reduce the demand for our financial guaranty insurance product. Currently no other “A” rated entities provide financial guaranty insurance. That could change, which could negatively impact our competitive standing. The market for CDO Asset Management services is highly competitive with low barriers to entry. We compete for assets with other managers with greater resources. Competition for assets of the types and classes in which our CDOs invest may lead to increasing asset prices which may further limit our ability to generate our desired returns. Also, as spreads tighten, the competition to acquire financial assets with sufficient spreads to generate the returns required by our CDO investors will increase, limiting our ability to originate profitable CDOs and to reinvest our current CDOs so as to sustain our historical performance. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of transactions and establish more relationships than we can. If we are unable to acquire enough assets with sufficient spreads, our performance may suffer compared to our competitors. Should this occur, even for a short period, our financial results may be significantly and quickly negatively impacted. Further, increasing competition in the origination of CDOs generally could negatively impact our ability to attract investors in our CDOs and therefore our ability to continue to generate CDOs and increase our assets under management. In addition, new entrants into the CDO asset management realm may cause a decrease in the rate of fees paid to asset managers and therefore also negatively impact our profitability. Additionally, in our Structured Credit business, we are seeing the introduction of derivative products companies, or DPCs, which are will be competing with us in this sector. This increased competition could result in spread compression and make it more difficult for us to price our deals to achieve our minimum risk-adjusted returns. See “Business - Competition.” We may experience fluctuations in quarterly and annual results due to the limited number of transactions we enter into in a given period. During any given quarter or year we enter into a limited number of transactions in each of our lines of business and we do not set performance targets based on closing a specified number of transactions or writing or insuring a specific notional or par amount in any particular quarter or year. Our targets are based on other metrics, such as aggregate fixed premiums, earned or written premiums or assets under management, as appropriate to our different business lines. This permits us to select only those opportunities, if any, that meet our risk-adjusted expectations, thereby maximizing our profitability. The transactions in which we participate are often highly negotiated and often take significant time to analyze, underwrite and close. Our Structured Credit and Public Finance businesses may elect to not transact if attractive opportunities are unavailable. In addition, while we intend to grow our CDO assets under management, we may not be able to sponsor a significantly increasing number of CDOs from year to year 38 due to investor demand, marketing considerations, asset availability and pricing considerations. Accordingly, we can provide no assurance that we will enter into a minimum level of transactions in any given period. As a result, our financial performance and growth will vary significantly depending on market conditions and the timing and closing of opportunities available to our business lines. As a result, our financial performance will likely vary significantly from quarter to quarter and the operating results for any quarter should not be deemed indicative of results for any future period. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Overview.” We have a limited operating history. We and our subsidiaries are relatively new entities with narrow business focuses and limited operating histories. As a result, there is limited historical financial and operating information available to help you evaluate our past performance. We have not operated our business in a long-term significantly recessionary environment or a long-term inflationary environment. As a result, there is limited historical information available to help you evaluate what our track record may be during such economic cycles. Future growth into international markets is subject to additional risks that are beyond our control. Our business strategy contemplates expanding portions of our business into foreign markets. For example, we have formed a subsidiary in Singapore through which we have entered the Asian structured credit markets, and have also formed another subsidiary that recently obtained a license as an investment manager in the United Kingdom through which we will participate in the European CDO asset management markets. We may not be successful in developing the necessary business relationships to grow our activities in these jurisdictions. If we are able to implement these strategies, we will be subject to the significant additional risks associated with doing business abroad, including, without limitation: currency exchange fluctuations; the imposition of new laws and regulations; financial reporting according to the standards of non-U.S. jurisdictions; restrictions on the transfer of funds; changes in local economic conditions; and the ability to integrate our international business and employees separated by large distances and different time zones effectively and efficiently into our overall operations and control systems. Our inability to effectively manage these risks and other factors that may be beyond our control could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operations. Our continued growth into additional product areas and markets could strain our resources. Since 2001, we have significantly increased the scope of our financial guaranty operations, including expanding into insuring credit swaps, and have entered into markets in which we previously did not conduct business, including the origination, structuring and management of our CDOs. We continue to focus on growing our business lines and building new products, which could place a strain on our management, other personnel, resources and financial reporting systems in future periods. To implement our business strategy, we will need to evaluate continually and, where necessary, upgrade our operating and financial systems, procedures and controls, as well as personnel resources. In addition, as part of our business strategy, we plan on entering into new product areas and markets and we may not effectively anticipate the required resources, relevant risks and management challenges to sustaining these operations. We may not be able to effectively manage new operations or successfully integrate them into our existing operations. If we do not accurately anticipate required improvements in controls or systems and necessarily increases in personnel, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We are a holding company and our cash flow is dependent on payments by our subsidiaries, which are subject to significant limitations. We are a holding company and, as such, conduct our operations primarily through our subsidiaries. A significant portion of our cash flow consists primarily of dividends and other permissible payments from 39 our subsidiaries, plus income on any proceeds of potential financings that we retain at the holding company level. We depend on such payments to meet our obligations, including the payment of interest and principal on our debt. The majority of such dividend payments are subject to ACA Financial Guaranty’s ability to pay dividends, since we operate most of our lines of business through ACA Financial Guaranty or its subsidiaries. For more information regarding these restrictions, see “Business—Regulation.” Our cash flow is further constrained because funds available to us from four of our CDOs are pledged as collateral or are used to make required payments in connection with our equity financing on those CDOs. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” While in the past the Commissioner of the Maryland Insurance Administration has consented to the payment of certain dividends, we cannot be certain that the Maryland Insurance Commissioner will continue to consent to such payments or other similar payments in the future. The inability of ACA Financial Guaranty to pay sufficient dividends and to make other permitted payments to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to satisfy our ongoing operating expenses, debt service and other cash requirements, as well as our ability to pay dividends on our common stock in the future. Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our operations and growth and could limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or the markets in which we compete. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately $4,903.7 million of short-term debt, long-term debt and related party debt outstanding, of which approximately $4,732 million related to the liabilities of our consolidated CDOs, $100 million related to the investment agreement of our special purpose subsidiary ACA Parliament Funding, L.L.C., $79.9 million related to our obligations under certain trust preferred securities and $12 million related to other corporate debt outstanding. In addition, we have entered into a $75 million unfunded line of credit. We may also incur additional indebtedness in the future to fund acquisitions, working capital and growth in our business or for other general corporate purposes. Our level of corporate debt increases our vulnerability to competitive pressures and to general adverse economic, market or industry conditions and reduces the availability of cash flow for working capital and other general corporate purposes. This could limit our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changing business, industry or economic conditions. See “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 10.” We may incur liabilities because of the unconditional nature of our financial guaranty insurance policies. Issuers whose obligations we insure may default on those obligations because of fraudulent or other intentional misconduct. Financial guaranty insurance is unconditional and does not provide for any exclusion of liability based on fraud or other misconduct. Despite any risk analysis we conduct, it is impossible to predict fraud or other intentional misconduct, or whether or to what extent we will have any remedy against any party in connection with such conduct. Payment of any such claims could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If our investments perform poorly, our financial results and ability to conduct business could be harmed. Our operating results are affected by the performance of our and ACA Financial Guaranty’s investment portfolios. Our and ACA Financial Guaranty’s investment portfolios are subject to: · market value risk, which may be due to a change in the yields realized on the investment portfolios and prevailing market yields for similar assets, an unfavorable change in the liquidity of the investments or an unfavorable change in the financial prospects or a downgrade in the credit rating of the issuers of the securities in the investment portfolios; 40 · default risk, which is the risk that some of the investments will not pay principal or interest owed to us when due; and · reinvestment risk, which is the risk that interest rates and credit spreads will decline and funds reinvested will earn less than expected. Interest rates and credit spreads are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to mitigate these risks effectively. Hedging transactions may limit our income or result in losses. We have and may in the future engage in hedging transactions to manage our credit risk exposure across our business lines and in our and ACA Financial Guaranty’s investment portfolios. We have and may also in the future engage in certain hedging transactions to limit our exposure to changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and other financial market changes. Hedging does not prevent losses or eliminate the possibility of fluctuations or prevent losses, and could result in additional losses. Also, certain hedging transactions may limit the opportunity for income or gain if rates change favorably. Moreover, it may not be possible to hedge against potential risk of loss or expected rate fluctuations at an acceptable price. Additionally, ACA Financial Guaranty would have to obtain regulatory approval before entering into such transactions in relation to its investment portfolio and we may not be able to obtain such approval. We are highly dependent on information systems and third parties, and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business. Our businesses are highly dependent on communications and information systems. Any failure or interruption of our systems could cause delays or other problems in our trading activities and our ongoing credit analysis and risk management assessments. This could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We are dependent on key executives. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the efforts of our executive management. We have one key man insurance policy in effect, which is for our President and Chief Executive Officer, Alan S. Roseman. We do not have key man insurance policies in effect for other members of senior management. We currently have employment agreements with these individuals, but employment agreements do not assure retention. We believe that there are a limited number of available, qualified executives with relevant experience in the insurance, capital markets and credit swap industries, and our inability to hire additional senior executives or the loss of the services of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business. Failure to retain or attract key personnel could have a material adverse effect on us. In our Public Finance business we insure low investment grade and high non-investment grade credit risks which may require significant loss mitigation efforts. Given the nature of our Public Finance portfolio, which is predominantly comprised of low investment grade and high non-investment grade credits, at any given time we are engaged in work-out strategies with a number of our credits to minimize or eliminate the potential for future losses. Such activities may result in increased loss adjustment expense, or LAE, reserves which could materially and adversely impact our results of operations in the periods such reserves are recorded. In addition, our work-outs may not be successful, which could result in our paying claims which could be significant. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates—Loss and Loss Adjustment Expenses.” 41 In our CDO Asset Management business we are subject to termination under the provisions of our investment advisory agreements. Generally, our services as asset manager may be terminated without cause by a vote of a majority of each class of debt securities and the equity tranche of a CDO. We may also be removed “for cause” upon the occurrence of certain events on the affirmative vote of a majority of the senior debt or a majority vote of the equity. In certain of our investment management agreements, substantial employee departures amongst CDO Asset Management and certain other key personnel within, most typically, a 12-month period constitutes a basis for our removal as asset manager. If we are removed as asset manager from one or more of our CDOs, it could have a significant negative impact on our reputation in the market and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, our ability to do new CDOs and our ability to be retained as an asset manager for our other CDOs. We may be precluded from participating in certain opportunities that we otherwise would participate in due to our role as a CDO asset manager and potential conflicts of interest. In addition to providing management services to CDOs originated and structured by us, we also provide management services to the Credit Fund, portfolios structured by third parties and take credit risk directly. Conflicts may exist for us in addressing these various roles and interests. We have developed an allocation policy and intend to act in a manner that is fair and equitable in allocating business opportunities and to follow our conflict resolution process should conflicts occur; however, because of these potential conflicts, we may not be able to participate in certain opportunities on a proprietary basis which opportunities otherwise meet our business objectives. Our inability to pursue certain opportunities due to conflicts of interest could have an adverse impact on our future results of operations. Risks Related to the Regulation of Our Businesses The regulatory systems under which we operate, and potential changes in regulation, could significantly and adversely affect our business. We operate in a highly regulated industry, and these regulations can restrict our ability to take actions or conduct our business for the ultimate benefit of our stockholders. Our operations may become subject to increased regulation, and applicable federal and state law or existing regulations may change, which may result in administrative burdens, increased costs or other adverse consequences to us. For example, proposals have been made in Congress to enact legislation that would increase regulation of the credit swap market. We cannot predict what restrictions any such legislation, if adopted, would impose and the effect those restrictions would have on our businesses. In addition, we may not accurately predict the effects of regulation that will be imposed on our business as we continue to enter into and expand our operations in international markets. Furthermore, regulatory changes can also impact our counterparties or other persons we do business with and may make our products less attractive to third parties. We are subject to the insurance holding company law of the State of Maryland, where ACA Financial Guaranty is organized and domiciled. This law generally requires each domestic insurance company directly or indirectly owned by a holding company to register with the Maryland Insurance Commissioner and to furnish financial and other information annually and periodically upon the occurrence of material events. Generally, all inter-company transactions between us or any affiliate and ACA Financial Guaranty in the holding company system must be fair and, if material, require prior notice to and approval by the Maryland Insurance Commissioner. ACA Financial Guaranty is licensed to write financial guaranty insurance in all 50 states of the United States, the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. State insurance laws regulate many aspects of ACA Financial Guaranty’s insurance business and state insurance departments supervise its insurance operations. The purpose of the state insurance regulatory statutes is to protect 42 policyholders, not stockholders. Among other things, Maryland insurance regulation requires ACA Financial Guaranty to maintain minimum levels of capital, surplus and liquidity, and imposes restrictions on the payment of dividends and distributions. These statutes and regulations may, in effect, restrict the ability of ACA Financial Guaranty to write new business or, as discussed under “Business—Regulation,” distribute funds to us. Also, because ACA Financial Guaranty is authorized to act as a foreign insurer in New York, it is also required to comply substantially with any requirement or limitation specified in the New York Insurance Law that is applicable to similar domestic insurers in New York. In recent years, the state insurance regulatory framework has come under increased federal scrutiny, and some state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance companies and insurance holding companies. Although not located or domiciled in the other jurisdictions in which ACA Financial Guaranty writes business, in order to maintain its licenses in those jurisdictions it is also subject to regulation in those states and territories as well. If ACA Financial Guaranty fail to comply with the various state insurance regulations applicable to it, it could experience material fines and potentially have its license withdrawn in the relevant jurisdiction, which could materially interfere with its ability to write insurance policies in the future. Certain states have financial guaranty insurance statutes that require an insurer to maintain a ratio of investment grade to non-investment grade and unrated financial guaranty policies. In New York, for example, an insurer may insure municipal obligation bonds, special revenue bonds and industrial development bonds that are not investment grade, so long as at least 95% of the insurer’s aggregate net liability on those kinds of obligations is investment grade. California has a similar statute. Additionally, these statutes include single risk limitations and aggregate risk limitations, which limit the amount of exposure that we may incur to a single entity from a single revenue source, in the case of single risk, or, in the case of aggregate risk, the aggregate amount of exposure that we may incur as compared to our surplus available to policyholders and contingency reserve. While we believe ACA Financial Guaranty is not contravening these statutes, the applicable state regulators may not agree with our interpretation of the application of the statutes. If the regulators of these states do not agree with our interpretation of these statutes, they may prohibit ACA Financial Guaranty from writing financial guaranty insurance in that state in the future or require us to change what insurance it writes which could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. See “Business—Regulation.” If we were required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, it could limit our growth and increase our costs; maintaining our exempt status may limit our options in the future. We believe that we are not required to be registered as an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940, or Investment Company Act, because we do not meet the definition of an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act. Specifically, we believe that we are not an investment company because, as of December 31, 2006, approximately 85% of our total assets on an unconsolidated basis, exclusive of government securities and cash items, represent our 100% indirect ownership interest in ACA Financial Guaranty, a regulated insurance company. We believe that ACA Financial Guaranty satisfies the requirements to be an “insurance company” as defined in the Investment Company Act and thus does not fall within the definition of an investment company. ACA Financial Guaranty is primarily and predominantly engaged in writing insurance and insurance-related products and is licensed to provide financial guaranty insurance in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Our financial guaranty insurance lines of business collectively produce the majority of ACA Financial Guaranty’s net income on an unconsolidated basis. ACA Financial Guaranty provides financial guaranty insurance policies for our Public Finance business, for the insured 43 credit swaps in our Structured Credit business and for certain other transactions described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Other.” If we cannot rely on the exemptions or other exclusions from registration as an investment company or our business or financial condition changes in a way that could make us an investment company, we could, among other things, be required either (a) to change the manner in which we conduct some of our operations (including by forgoing otherwise attractive business opportunities) to avoid being required to register as an investment company, (b) to restructure our corporate structure or (c) to register as an investment company. There may be significant negative financial implications associated with changing our corporate structure or changing the manner in which we conduct our operations to maintain our exempt status under the Investment Company Act. If we were required to register as an investment company, we would have to comply with a variety of restrictions, including limitations on our capital structure, restrictions on our investments, prohibitions on transactions with affiliates and compliance requirements that could limit our growth and increase our costs. There is no assurance that we could function effectively if we were required to register as an investment company. Our subsidiary, ACA Management, is a registered investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and if ACA Management fails to comply with applicable related regulation we may not be able to continue to grow our CDO Asset Management business in accordance with our business plan. Our subsidiary, ACA Management, is a registered investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act, and our asset management activities are regulated by the SEC. While we believe that ACA Management is in material compliance with applicable regulation, it is subject to regular examinations and “theme audits” which may be conducted by the SEC at any time. ACA Management’s failure to remain in strict compliance with these regulatory requirements could result in disciplinary action which could include material fines or the suspension or revocation of its investment adviser registration. Any such enforcement action may negatively impact the results of our CDO Asset Management business. ACA Capital Management (U.K.) is authorized and regulated by the FSA in the United Kingdom and if ACA Capital Management (U.K.) fails to comply with applicable related regulation we may not be able to continue to grow our CDO Asset Management business in accordance with our business plan. Our subsidiary, ACA Capital Management (U.K.), is authorized and regulated by the FSA in the United Kingdom, and its investment management activities are regulated by the FSA. While we believe that ACA Capital Management (U.K.) is in material compliance with applicable regulation, it is subject to regular examinations which may be conducted by the FSA at any time. ACA Capital Management (U.K.)’s failure to remain in strict compliance with these regulatory requirements could result in disciplinary action which could include material fines or the suspension or revocation of its investment management license. Any such enforcement action may negatively impact the results of our CDO Asset Management business. Our ability to implement, for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in a timely and satisfactory manner could materially impact our business and cause the price of our common stock to fall. We are presently evaluating our existing internal controls with respect to the standards adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. We cannot be certain at this time that we will be able to successfully and satisfactorily complete the procedures, certification and attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by the time that we are required to file our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, which is the first time that our management and our outside auditors will be required to deliver reports on our internal controls and procedures in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Uncertainty as to our ability to comply with such requirements or any material weaknesses uncovered as a result of such procedures could have a material adverse effect on our 44 businesses and the trading price of our common stock. In addition, we may incur increased costs associated with such procedures or a diversion of internal resources necessary to prepare for or comply with such requirements. Changes in tax laws could affect the demand for our services and products. Any material change in the U.S. or foreign tax treatment of CDOs or investors in CDOs, credit swaps or municipal securities could adversely affect the demand for our services and products. Future potential changes in U.S. tax laws, such as the imposition of a “flat tax” or the imposition of a national sales tax in lieu of the current federal income tax structure, could adversely affect the market for municipal and other public finance obligations and, consequently, reduce the demand for financial guaranty insurance of such obligations. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We do not currently intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. It is uncertain when, if ever, we will declare dividends to our stockholders. During the next few years of operations, we expect that we will retain all profits. Our ability to pay dividends may be constrained by our holding company structure under which we are substantially dependent on payments by our subsidiaries, which are subject to limitations imposed on them by Maryland law, in the case of ACA Financial Guaranty, or otherwise with respect to our other subsidiaries. See “Business—Regulation” and Part II, Item 5 of this report. You should not rely on an investment in us if you require dividend income. Insiders have substantial control over us and this could limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change in control. Our directors, executive officers and principal stockholders and entities affiliated with them beneficially own approximately 61% of our outstanding shares of common stock. As a result, these stockholders, may be able to influence or control matters requiring approval by our stockholders including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other fundamental transactions. In addition, several of our largest stockholders have entered into a stockholders agreement and have the right to nominate directors to our Board of Directors and its committees. The stockholders agreement in part provides that the parties thereto shall vote for certain nominees to our board of directors. The level of these rights depend on the amount of our common stock that such stockholder holds. These stockholders may thereby exercise significant control and influence in corporate matters. Such stockholders may also have interests that differ from yours and may vote in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. The concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control of the Company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares of common stock as part of a sale of the Company and might ultimately affect the market price of our common stock. Conflicts of interest may arise because some of our directors are principals of our stockholders. Our Board of Directors includes representatives from BSMB/ACA LLC, SF Holding Corp. (f/k/a Stephens Group, Inc.), Chestnut Hill ACA, LLC and Third Avenue Trust. Those stockholders and their respective affiliates may invest in entities that directly or indirectly compete with us or companies in which they are currently invested may already compete with us. As a result of these relationships, when conflicts between the interests of those stockholders or their respective affiliates and the interests of our other stockholders arise, these directors may not be disinterested. Under Delaware law, transactions that we enter into in which a director or officer has a conflict of interest are generally permissible so long as (1) the material facts relating to the director’s or officer’s relationship or interest as to the transaction are 45 disclosed to our Board of Directors and a majority of our disinterested directors approves the transaction, (2) the material facts relating to the director’s or officer’s relationship or interest as to the transaction are disclosed to our stockholders and a majority of our disinterested stockholders approves the transaction, or (3) the transaction is otherwise fair to us. The BSMB/ACA LLC, SF Holding Corp., Chestnut Hill ACA, LLC and Third Avenue Trust representatives on our Board of Directors and the representatives of certain of our other significant stockholders, should they become members of our Board of Directors, by the terms of our Certificate of Incorporation, are not required to offer us any transaction opportunity of which they become aware and could take any such opportunity for themselves or offer it to other companies in which they have an investment, unless such opportunity is expressly offered to them solely in their capacity as a director of the Company. Applicable insurance laws may make it difficult to effect a change in control of our company. The insurance law of Maryland prevents any person from acquiring control of ACA or of ACA Financial Guaranty unless that person has filed a notification with specified information with the Commissioner of the Maryland Insurance Administration and has obtained his or her prior approval. Under Maryland law, acquiring 10% or more of the voting stock of an insurance company or its parent company is presumptively considered a change in control, although such presumption may be rebutted. Accordingly, any person who acquires, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting securities of ACA without the prior approval of the Commissioner of the Maryland Insurance Administration will be in violation of this law and may be subject to injunctive action requiring the disposition or seizure of those securities by the Commissioner of the Maryland Insurance Administration or prohibiting the voting of those securities and to other actions determined by the Commissioner of the Maryland Insurance Administration. In addition, many state insurance laws require prior notification to state insurance departments of a change in control of a non-domiciliary insurance company doing business in those states. While these pre-notification statutes do not authorize the state insurance departments to disapprove the change in control, they authorize regulatory action, including revocation of ACA Financial Guaranty’s license, in the affected state if particular conditions exist such as undue market concentration. Any future transactions that would constitute a change in control of ACA may require prior notification in those states that have adopted pre-acquisition notification laws. Given the importance of ACA Financial Guaranty’s “A” rating to our businesses, as a practical matter, a change in control would require confirmation in advance from the rating agencies that such transaction would not result in a downgrading of the financial strength rating assigned to ACA Financial Guaranty. See “Business—Regulation.” The foregoing legal restrictions will have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging unsolicited takeover bids from third parties or the removal of incumbent management. We have anti-takeover defenses that could impede an acquisition or an attempt to replace or remove our directors, which could diminish the value of our common stock. We have not opted out of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, an anti-takeover law. In general, Section 203 prohibits a publicly-held Delaware corporation from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years following the date the person became an interested stockholder, unless (with certain exceptions) the “business combination” or the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder is approved in a prescribed manner. Generally, a “business combination” includes a merger, asset or stock sale, or other transaction resulting in a financial benefit to the interested stockholder. Generally, an “interested stockholder” is a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns (or within three years prior to the determination of interested stockholder status, did own) 15% or more of a corporation’s voting stock. The existence of this provision would be expected to have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by 46 the Board of Directors, including discouraging attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for the shares of common stock held by stockholders. As such, this provision of Delaware law and certain provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws could make it more difficult to acquire us by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise, and to remove incumbent officers and directors. These provisions have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing hostile takeovers, including those that might result in a premium being paid over the market price of our common stock, and discouraging, delaying or preventing changes in control or our management. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 