Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness and Litigation If we are in default under our Credit Agreement or our Factoring Agreement, then all amounts due there under will become immediately due and payable, which will have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. On October 18, 2005, we entered into a Credit Agreement (as amended from time to time, the “Credit Agreement”) with LSQ Funding Group, L.C. (“LSQ”) and BRE LLC (“BRE” and, together with LSQ, our “lenders”), pursuant to which we borrowed $1,650,000 pursuant to a term loan with a maturity date of October 1, 2007 (“Term Loan A”) and $3,500,000 pursuant to a term loan with a maturity date of October 1, 2009 (“Term Loan B” and, together with Term Loan A, the “Initial Term Loans”). During May 2006, the Initial Term Loans were paid in full. In connection with the Credit Agreement, we entered into a Factoring and Security Agreement (the “Factoring Agreement”) with LSQ, pursuant to which LSQ will purchase from us from time to time certain accounts receivable at a discount of 0.7% and provide us with a professional accounts receivable management service for a funds usage fee of the prime rate plus 1.0% on the funds advanced on the outstanding accounts receivable purchased. The Factoring Agreement has a $12,000,000 initial purchase limit and a four-year term which will automatically renew unless we provide notice of our intent to terminate. The Factoring Agreement amends and restates the Factoring Agreement dated as of April 1, 2005 between LSQ and Paragon Systems, pursuant to which LSQ purchased from Paragon Systems from time to time certain accounts receivable at a discount of 0.7% under a factoring facility with a funds usage fee equal to the prime rate plus 1.00%, a $6,500,000 initial purchase limit and a one-year term subject to annual renewal. Pursuant to the Credit Agreement, in October 2005, we also entered into (i) a Guaranty Agreement pursuant to which we unconditionally and irrevocably guarantee to the lenders the prompt payment and performance of all of our obligations, indebtedness and liabilities to the lenders, whether currently existing or subsequently arising (the “Obligations”); and (ii) a Security Agreement, pursuant to which we granted to the lenders a security interest in substantially all of our assets to secure all of the Obligations. Additionally, in October 2005, we also entered into a Pledge Agreement pursuant to which we have pledged to the lenders the capital stock of Paragon Systems to secure all of our obligations under the Credit Agreement and related documents. 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements On June 27, 2006, Paragon Systems executed a Guaranty of Joint Venture (the “JV Guaranty”) pursuant to which Paragon Systems unconditionally guarantees to LSQ the prompt payment and performance of all obligations, indebtedness and liabilities, whether currently existing or subsequently arising, of SEP (the “JV Obligations”). The JV Obligations include the obligations, indebtedness and liabilities of SEP to LSQ under that certain Factoring and Security Agreement between SEP and LSQ dated as of June 27, 2006 (the “JV Factoring Agreement”), pursuant to which LSQ will purchase from SEP from time to time certain accounts receivable at a discount of 0.7% and provide SEP with a professional accounts receivable management service for a funds usage fee equal to the prime rate plus 1.0% on the funds advanced on the outstanding accounts receivable purchased. The JV Factoring Agreement has a $1,000,000 initial purchase limit and a one-year term which will automatically renew unless SEP provides notice of its intent to terminate. The outstanding balance under the Credit Agreement as of December 31, 2006 is approximately $7.8 million. At December 31, 2006, we had less than $500,000 of availability under our Credit Agreement. Additionally, from time to time during 2006, we had borrowed more than the maximum amount allowable under the availability formula in the Credit Agreement. Accordingly, on those occasions when the outstanding balance exceeded the availability, we were charged the default interest and fees by our lenders. During March 2007, we secured an additional $2.5 million term loan (the “2007 Term Loan”) with our lenders to provide additional financing as needed to provide the capital we estimate is necessary to continue to operate the business during 2007. In connection with obtaining the 2007 Term Loan, we also pledged to the lenders the capital stock of all of our subsidiaries to secure all of our obligations under the Credit Agreement and related documents. If the business does not begin to generate enough cash to fund the operations and the debt service requirements, additional capital may be necessary to continue to operate the business. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to raise additional capital in the future or that such capital can be raised on terms acceptable to U.S. If an event of default under the Credit Agreement, the Factoring Agreement or any agreement we have with out lenders occurs, then the entire balance outstanding under all such agreements shall become immediately due and payable. We will not be able to repay this balance unless we raise significant capital by selling assets or issuing debt or equity securities, which we may not be able to do on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If the balance outstanding under our agreements with our lenders becomes immediately due and payable and we are unable to raise significant capital or obtain from our lenders an additional waiver and an agreement to forbear, then we will not be able to satisfy our obligations to our lenders, our lenders may proceed to foreclose on the collateral and our business and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. If our lenders stop advancing funds to us under the Factoring Agreement or the Credit Agreement, then we may not be able to satisfy our current operating payables, which would have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition. We rely on advances under the Factoring Agreement and borrowings under the 2007 Term Loan for funds to satisfy our cash flow needs for our daily operations. Our lenders are not obligated to advance additional funds to us under the Factoring Agreement or the 2007 Term Loan if the funds advanced to us and outstanding under the Factoring Agreement exceed our maximum availability or if we are otherwise in default under our agreements with our lenders. If our lenders stop advancing funds to us under the Factoring Agreement or does not allow us to borrow under the 2007 Term Loan, then we may not be able to satisfy our current operating payables, which would make it difficult for us to satisfy our contractual obligations to our customers. If we are not able to satisfy our current operating payables or our contractual obligations to our customers, then our business and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. Further, our lenders will not be obligated to advance additional funds to us under the Factoring Agreement or Credit Agreement until we reduce the amount of the advances outstanding under the Factoring Agreement to an amount which is less than our maximum availability. We may not be able to do so unless we raise significant capital by selling assets or issuing debt or equity securities, which we may not be able to do on terms acceptable to us, if at all. 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We have substantial debt. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately $21.1 million of outstanding debt (excluding obligations to trade creditors and taxing authorities including the IRS). We may incur substantial additional debt in the future, including additional debt under the Factoring Agreement. It will be difficult for us to satisfy our payment obligations. Our considerable indebtedness could have important consequences to you, including, but not limited to, the following: • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be impaired; • we are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates because the Factoring Agreement and the 2007 Term Loan have variable rates of interest; • we may have more debt than some of our competitors, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage and reduce our flexibility in planning for, or responding to, changing conditions in our industry, including increased competition; and • we are more vulnerable to general economic downturns and adverse developments in our business. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, and we may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our payment obligations, which actions may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled debt service depends on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive industry conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to: • interest rates and general economic conditions; • competitive conditions in our industry; • operating difficulties, operating costs or pricing pressures that we may experience; • passage of legislation or other regulatory developments that affect us adversely; and • delays or difficulties in implementing our business strategies. We cannot assure you that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to make our scheduled debt service payments or otherwise satisfy indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, seek additional capital, sell assets or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service payments. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligation, then we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to scale back our operations or dispose of material assets to meet our debt service obligations. The Credit Agreement restricts our ability to dispose of our assets requires that all proceeds from any such disposition be used to reduce our obligations under the Credit Agreement. Even if we are able to dispose of certain assets, we may not be able to make such dispositions at prices that we believe are fair or use the proceeds from such dispositions to make payments on our indebtedness, other than under the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement imposes significant restrictions on us, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking certain corporate actions. The Credit Agreement imposes significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability to: • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; • pay dividends and make distributions; 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • make certain investments; • repurchase stock; • incur liens; • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • merge or consolidate; and • transfer or sell assets. These covenants may adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs, pursue available business opportunities or take certain corporate actions. We may not prevail in our lawsuit against the former shareholders of Paragon Systems which may materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. On February 27, 2006, we filed a lawsuit against the former shareholders of Paragon Systems alleging, among other things, that they breached certain representations in the Paragon Purchase Agreement. In the complaint, we seek, among other things, an award of damages and a decree invalidating the Series C Redeemable Preferred Stock which was issued to the former shareholders as part of the purchase price for the Paragon Acquisition and the security agreements pursuant to which we pledged 40% of the outstanding capital stock of Paragon Systems to secure our obligations under the Series C Redeemable Preferred Stock. Accordingly, we exercised our right of offset under the Paragon Purchase Agreement and applicable common law and have not paid the dividend payments on the Series C Redeemable Preferred Stock on February 28, 2006, or at any point thereafter, and have not redeemed the Series C Redeemable Preferred Stock, which has a redemption value of $6.0 million and was otherwise redeemable by us on February 27, 2007. If we do not prevail in the lawsuit, then we may be required to redeem the Series C Redeemable Preferred Stock and pay all accrued and unpaid interest thereon. If we do not do so, then the former shareholders may be able to foreclose on the stock of Paragon Systems pledged to them. If we are required to redeem the Series C Redeemable Preferred Stock, or if the former shareholders foreclose on the stock of Paragon Systems pledged to them, then our business and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to satisfy or otherwise settle the claims with respect to the Series C Redeemable Preferred Stock by February 28, 2008, we will be in default under our Credit Agreement, which requires that the litigation with respect to the Series C Redeemable Preferred Stock be settled and that the lien on the 40% of the stock of Paragon Systems held by the former shareholders of Paragon Systems be eliminated by February 28, 2008. If the Series C Redeemable Preferred Stock remains outstanding or the lien on the stock of Paragon Systems remains outstanding on February 28, 2008, we will be in violation of our Credit Agreement and all amounts outstanding under the Credit Agreement, the Factoring Agreement, and all other agreements with our lenders will become immediately due and payable. If we are unable to satisfy or otherwise settle our indebtedness, then we may lose control of our subsidiaries, which generate all of our revenue. We have pledged 40% of the outstanding capital stock of Paragon Systems to the former shareholders of Paragon Systems to secure our payment obligations with respect to the Series C Redeemable Preferred Stock. As discussed above, we are exercising our right of offset under the Paragon Purchase Agreement and applicable common law and have not made dividend or redemption payments with respect to the Series C Redeemable Preferred Stock. If it is finally determined that we were not entitled to exercise such rights, then the former shareholders of Paragon Systems may foreclose on the stock of Paragon Systems pledged to them. Furthermore, we have granted to our lenders a security interest in all of the capital stock of all of our subsidiaries to secure our obligations to our lenders. If we are in default under the Credit Agreement, the Factoring Agreement or any other agreement with our lenders, then our lenders could foreclose 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements on such stock. If either the former shareholders or our lenders, or both, foreclose on the stock pledged to them, then we will lose a significant portion or all of our revenue, and our business and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. Upon filing our tax return, we expect to have a tax liability of $1.2 million which we may be unable to pay due to liquidity issues. As of December 31, 2006, we expect to have a federal tax liability of approximately $1.2 million. In order to pay the IRS to satisfy the obligation, we will be required to draw upon our debt facilities. We may be unable to pay our tax liability in the ordinary course because (i) we may not have the availability under our credit facilities to make the payment or (ii) our lender may be unwilling to advance the funds under the Factoring Agreement to make the payment. Risks Relating to Our Industry and Business We depend on the Factoring Agreement to meet our cash flow needs, which reduces our profit margin. Pursuant to the Factoring Agreement, our lenders from time to time purchase certain accounts receivable from us at a discount of 0.7% with a funds usage fee of prime plus 1.0% on the outstanding funds advanced on the accounts receivable purchased. If we are in default under our Factoring Agreement or the Term Loans, then the interest note on the Factoring Agreement increases to 18% and a 1% fee is charged on all advances made to us under the Factoring Agreement. This discount and usage fee reduces our profit margins. We cannot, however, cease factoring our receivables because the funds provided by our lenders are necessary to satisfy our cash flow needs. In fact, we utilize the Factoring Agreement to the maximum extent permitted by our lenders which historically has allowed us to factor substantially all of our accounts receivable. We believe that if the Factoring Agreement with our lenders were to terminate, then we would need to obtain a new factoring agreement. Our obligations to our lenders are secured by a lien on all of our assets; consequently, if we are liquidated, then there may not be any assets available for distribution to shareholders or creditors other than our lenders. Our service contracts often provide for fixed hourly bill rates or permit limited fee adjustments, and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected if increases in our costs cannot be charged to our customers. Our largest expenses are payroll, payroll taxes and employee related benefits. Most of our service contracts provide for a fixed hourly bill rate and some of our service contracts provide for payments of either fixed fees or fees that increase by only small amounts during the terms of such service contracts or not at all. Competitive pressures also may prevent us from raising our fees or hourly bill rates when contracts are renewed. If, due to inflation or other causes, including increases in statutory payroll taxes, we must increase the wages, salaries and related taxes and benefits of our employees at rates faster than we can increase the fees charged under our service contracts, then our profitability will be adversely affected. If we lose our executive officers or operation employees, our operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our success is dependent to a significant extent upon the continuing efforts, abilities and business generation capabilities of our executive officers and senior operation employees. We have programs in place to motivate, reward and retain our executive officers and senior operation employees, including cash bonus and equity incentive plans. However, the loss or unavailability of any of our executive officers or senior operation employees could harm our ability to properly service or retain existing clients or operate new businesses. Our success and plans for future growth will also depend on our ability to hire and retain our executive officers and senior operation employees. 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements If we are unable to attract, retain and manage security guards and administrative staff, then our business, financial condition and results of operation will be materially affected. Our business involves the labor-intensive delivery of contract security services. We derive our revenues largely from contract security guard services performed by our security guards. Our future performance depends in large part upon our ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain skilled security guards and administrative staff. Qualified security guards and administrative staff are in demand, particularly after the terrorist activity of September 11, 2001, and there is significant competition for these individuals from other security firms, government agencies and other similar enterprises. As a result, we may not be able to attract and retain sufficient numbers of these qualified individuals in the future, which may adversely affect our business. Turnover of contract security guards is significant. The loss of the services of, or the failure to recruit, a significant number of skilled security guards and administrative staff would have a materially adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including our ability to secure and complete service contracts. Furthermore, if we do not successfully manage our existing security guards and administrative staff, we may not be able to achieve the anticipated billing rates, engagement quality, level of overtime and other performance measures that are important to our business, financial condition and results of operations. Organized labor action or occupational health and safety laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our industry has been the subject of campaigns to increase the number of unionized employees. Although we believe that our relationships with our employees are good, we cannot provide you with any assurances that organized labor action at one or more of our facilities will not occur, or that any such activities, or any other labor difficulties at our facilities or the facilities of any of our customers, would not materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we are subject to, among other laws and regulations, comprehensive U.S. occupational health and safety laws and regulations. Such laws and regulations may become more stringent and result in necessary modifications to our current practices and facilities that could force us to incur additional costs that could materially affect our business, financial conditions and results of operations. If we cannot successfully compete with new or existing security service providers, then our business, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. The contract security guard services industry is intensely competitive. We directly compete with companies that are national and international in scope and some of our competitors have significantly greater personnel, financial, technical and marketing resources than we do, generate greater revenues than we do and have greater name recognition than we do. The recent trend toward consolidation in our industry will likely lead to increased competition from these companies. We also compete with smaller local and regional companies that may have better knowledge of the local conditions in their regions, are better known locally and are better able to gain customers in their regions. There are relatively low barriers to entry into the contract security services industry, and we have faced and expect to continue to face additional competition from new entrants into the contract security officer services industry. In addition, some of our competitors may be willing to provide services at lower prices, accept a lower profit margin or expend more capital in order to obtain or retain business. If we cannot successfully compete with new or existing security service providers, then our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. In the Federal government security services sector, we have experienced compressed margins for our services on new contracts relative to the margins earned on older contracts. We expect that future contract wins will be at profit levels which are lower than our current contract base due to increased competition for these contracts. 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Changes in available security technology may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business involves the labor intensive delivery of contract security services performed by our security guards. Changes in technologies that provide alternatives to security guard services or that decrease the number of security guards required to effectively perform their services may decrease our customers’ demand for our security guard services. In addition, if such technologies become available for use in the industry, these technologies may be proprietary in nature and not be available for use by us in servicing our customers. Even if these technologies are available for use by us, we may not be able to successfully integrate such technologies into our business model or may be less successful in doing so than our competitors or new entrants in the industry. A decrease in demand for our security guard services or our inability to effectively utilize such technologies may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The security services we provide may subject us to liability for substantial damages not covered by insurance which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We provide security services at various customer locations. We may be held liable for the negligent acts or misconduct of our security guards or other employees performed while on duty and in the course and scope of their employment. We experience a significant volume of claims and litigation asserting that we are liable for damages as a result of the conduct of our security guards or other employees. We may from time to time be subject to claims that our security guards have physically or emotionally harmed individuals in the course of providing these services, or members of the public may be otherwise injured by events occurring on client premises, including events that are not under the immediate control of our security officers. Individuals may bring personal injury lawsuits against us seeking substantial damages based on alleged negligence or other theories of liability in our provision of security services, including with respect to injuries not directly caused by, or within the control of, our security officers. Under principles of common law, we can generally be held liable for wrongful acts or omissions to act of our agents or employees during the course, and within the scope, of their agency or employment with us. In many cases, our security service contracts also require us to indemnify our clients or may otherwise subject us to additional liability for events occurring on client premises. In addition, some states have adopted statutes that make us responsible for the conduct of our agents and employees. While we maintain insurance programs that provide coverage for certain liability risks, including personal injury, death and property damage, the laws of many states limit or prohibit insurance coverage for punitive damages arising from willful or grossly negligent conduct. Consequently, insurance may not be adequate to cover all potential claims or damages. If a plaintiff brings a successful claim against us for punitive damages in excess of our insurance coverage, then we could incur substantial liabilities which would have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Terrorist activity at locations where we provide security services could have a material adverse effect on our business by subjecting us to liability. Whether or not terrorist activity occurs at a client location, our insurance costs could increase, and we could be required to comply with more burdensome regulations. If any locations where we provide security related services are attacked by terrorists, then liabilities resulting from such attacks may not be covered by insurance and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations by requiring us to incur additional personnel costs as a result of compliance with expanded security rules and regulations. In addition, terrorist attacks that do not directly involve locations serviced by us could have a material impact on us by increasing our insurance coverage costs or making insurance coverage unavailable altogether. 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We may be unable to obtain liability insurance at a reasonable cost, which would increase our exposure to catastrophic claims. Insurance premiums have increased substantially since the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001. If certain coverages are unavailable at premiums deemed reasonable by management, then our exposure for catastrophic claims would be increased. We are subject to government regulation, and our failure or inability to comply with these regulations could materially restrict our operations and subject us to substantial penalties. We are subject to a large number of city, county and state occupational licensing laws and regulations that apply to security officers. Most states have laws, or legislation pending, requiring qualification, training and registration of security officers, regulating the use of identification cards, badges and uniforms and imposing minimum bond surety or insurance standards. Any liability we may have from our failure to comply with these regulations may materially and adversely affect our business by restricting our operations and subjecting us to substantial penalties. In addition, our current and future operations may be subject to additional regulation as a result of, among other factors, new statutes and regulations and changes in the manner in which existing statutes and regulations are or may be interpreted. We may not be successful in identifying suitable acquisition opportunities, and, if we do identify such opportunities, then we may not be able to obtain acceptable financing for the acquisition, reach agreeable terms with acquisition targets or successfully integrate acquired businesses. An element of our growth strategy is the acquisition and integration of complementary businesses in order to increase our density within certain geographic areas, capture market share in the markets in which we operate and improve our profitability. We will not be able to acquire other businesses if we cannot identify suitable acquisition opportunities, obtain financing on acceptable terms or reach mutually agreeable terms with acquisition targets. In addition, to the extent that consolidation becomes more prevalent in our industry, the prices for suitable acquisition targets may increase to unacceptable levels thereby limiting our ability to grow. Our growth through selective acquisitions may place significant demands on our management, operational and financial resources. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the diversion of our management’s attention from other business concerns, the possibility that current operating and financial systems and controls may be inadequate to deal with our growth, and the potential loss of key employees. We also may encounter difficulties in integrating any businesses we may acquire with our existing operations. The success of these transactions depends on our ability to: • successfully merge corporate cultures and operational and financial systems; • integrate and retain the customer base of the acquired business; • realize cost reduction synergies, including those cost reduction synergies that we expect to realize; and • as necessary, retain key management members and technical personnel of acquired companies. If we fail to integrate acquired businesses successfully or to manage our growth, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Further, we may be unable to maintain or enhance the profitability of any acquired business, consolidate its operations to achieve cost savings, or maintain or renew any of its contracts. In addition, there may be liabilities that we fail, or are unable, to discover in the course of performing due diligence investigations on any Company that we may acquire, or have recently acquired. Also, there may be additional costs relating to acquisitions including, but not limited to, possible purchase price adjustments. Any of our rights to indemnification from sellers to us, even if obtained, may not be enforceable, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset the possible liabilities associated with the business or property acquired. Any such liabilities, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business. 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We may not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient capital to pursue our acquisition strategy. Our acquisition strategy will require substantial capital. Such capital may be obtained by borrowings under credit facilities, through the issuance of long-term or short-term indebtedness or through the issuance of equity securities in private or public transactions. The Credit Agreement restricts our ability to incur additional debt without the approval of our lenders. If we are able to incur additional debt to pursue our acquisition strategy, then our interest expense will increase. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain financing for future acquisitions on suitable terms, if at all. In addition, executing our acquisition strategy may be more expensive than we anticipate because the purchase price for acquisition targets may increase due to mergers and other transactions recently completed in the security industry, and the growing interest in future mergers and consolidations. If the purchase price for acquisition targets we find appealing increases, then we will need more capital than we anticipate to execute our acquisition strategy, or we may not be able to execute our acquisition strategy at all. We may not be able to obtain additional financing that may be necessary to fund our operations. In order to fund our operations and increase revenues, additional financing may be required, which additional financing may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We may not be successful in raising additional capital, and the proceeds of any future financings may not be sufficient to meet our future capital needs. We may need to seek additional financing sooner than we anticipate as a result of any of changes in operating plans, lower than anticipated sales, or increased operating costs. Compliance with the corporate governance requirements to which we are subject as a public corporation will cause us to incur significant costs, and the failure to comply with such requirements will expose us to investigations and sanctions by regulatory authorities. We face corporate governance requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley”), as well as new rules and regulations subsequently adopted by the SEC, the Public Corporation Accounting Oversight Board and The Nasdaq Stock Market, LLC. (the “Nasdaq”). In particular, we will be required to include a management report on internal control as part of our annual report for the year ending December 31, 2007 pursuant to Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley. Although we believe we have adequate internal control procedures in place, we are in the process of evaluating our internal controls systems in order (i) to allow management to report on our internal controls, as required by these laws, rules and regulations, (ii) to provide reasonable assurance that our public disclosure will be accurate and complete, and (iii) to help ensure that we will be able to comply with the other provisions of Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley. We cannot be certain as to the timing of the completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations. If we are not able to implement the requirements relating to internal controls and all other provisions of Section 404 in a timely fashion or otherwise achieve adequate compliance with such requirements, then we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC or Nasdaq. Any such action may materially adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and the value of our securities, including the common stock. In addition, we expect that these laws, rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make certain corporate governance activities more difficult, time-consuming and costly. We also expect that these new requirements will make it more difficult and expensive for us to maintain director and officer liability insurance. If our professional reputation is harmed, then we will have difficulty obtaining new customers and retaining existing customers, either of which would adversely affect our revenues. We depend upon our reputation and the individual reputations of our senior professionals to obtain new customers and retain existing customers. Any factor that diminishes our reputation or the individual reputations of our senior professionals, including an ineffective response to terrorist activity or breach of security at any location we service, will make it more difficult for us to compete successfully for new customers or to retain existing customers and, therefore, would adversely affect our revenues. 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Economic downturns or recessions may dampen the demand for our services, which will reduce our revenues. During economic declines, some decisions to implement security programs and install systems may be deferred or cancelled. In other cases, customers may increase their purchases of security systems because they fear more inventory shrinkage and theft will occur due to increasing economic need. We are not able accurately to predict to what extent an economic slowdown will decrease the demand for our services. If demand for our services decreases, then our revenues will decline. Risks Related to Government Contracting We derive a significant portion of our revenue from Federal government contracts which the government may terminate at any time or determine not to extend after their scheduled expiration. If we are unable to replace any contract which is not extended or is terminated, then our revenues will decline. During 2006, we derived approximately 46% of our consolidated revenue from contracts with the Federal government. Federal government contracts typically span one or more base years and one or more option years. The option periods may cover more than half of the contract’s potential duration. Federal government agencies generally have the right not to exercise these option periods. In addition, our contracts typically also contain provisions permitting a government customer to terminate the contract for its convenience, as well as for our default. A decision by a government agency not to exercise option periods or to terminate contracts could result in significant revenue shortfalls. If the government terminates a contract for convenience, then we may recover only our incurred or committed costs, settlement expenses and profit on work completed prior to the termination. We cannot recover anticipated profit on terminated work. If the government terminates a contract for default, then we may not recover even those amounts, and instead may be liable for excess costs incurred by the government in procuring undelivered items and services from another source. We cannot predict if the government will terminate or choose not to extend our Federal government contracts. The government has never terminated any of our contracts; however, it may do so at any time. Because we have a highly concentrated customer base, the loss of any of our Federal government customers could have a significant effect on our revenues. During 2007, we expect to derive approximately 54% of our consolidated revenue from contracts with our Federal government agencies. If any of our current Federal government customers determines not to renew or terminate its contract, then our revenues may significantly decline. The Federal government has rights and remedies under its contracts not typically found in commercial contracts that may reduce or eliminate our revenue under these contracts, as well as our ability to enter into other government contracts. Federal government contracts contain provisions and are subject to laws and regulations that give the government rights and remedies not typically found in commercial contracts. The government may terminate its contracts for convenience or decline to exercise an option to renew. The government may also: • reduce or modify its contracts or subcontracts; • cancel multi-year contracts and related orders if funds for contract performance for any subsequent year become unavailable; and • suspend or bar us from doing business with the Federal government. If the Federal government were to exercise any of these rights or remedies, then our revenues would decline. 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our failure to comply with complex procurement laws and regulations could result in the termination of our Federal government contracts or our failure to be awarded any new contracts, and changes in laws and regulations could impose added costs on our business. We must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of Federal government contracts, which affect how we do business with our customers and may impose added costs on our business. Among the most significant regulations are: • the Federal Acquisition Regulations and other agency regulations supplemental to the Federal Acquisition Regulations, which comprehensively regulate the formation, administration and performance of government contracts; • the Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiations; • the Cost Accounting Standards and Cost Principles, which impose accounting requirements that govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based government contracts; and • laws, regulations and executive orders restricting the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the exportation of certain products and technical data. Moreover, we are subject to industrial security regulations of the Department of Defense and other Federal agencies that are designed to safeguard against foreigners’ access to classified information. If we were to come under foreign ownership, control or influence, then our Federal government customers could terminate or decide not to renew our contracts, and it could impair our ability to obtain new contracts. If we do not comply with the procurement laws and regulations discussed above, then we may be fined, we may not be reimbursed for costs incurred by us in servicing our contracts, our contracts may be terminated and we may be unable to obtain new contracts, any of which would cause our revenues to decline. Our status as a General Services Administration (“GSA”) Federal Supply Schedule Contractor may be withdrawn, which would make us ineligible to obtain certain Federal government contracts and would result in a significant decrease in our revenues. The GSA secures the buildings, products, services, technology and other workplace essentials which Federal agencies need to operate. GSA Federal Supply Schedule contracts are contract vehicles under which Federal government agencies may purchase professional services or products. Federal government agencies may choose to award contracts only to GSA Federal Supply Schedule contractors to reduce the number of qualified bidders and to expedite the bidding process. Paragon Systems has been approved by the GSA as a GSA Federal Supply Schedule contractor and, therefore, is able to bid on Federal government contracts awarded using the GSA Federal Supply Schedule. Currently, seven of our contracts with annualized revenues of approximately $21.1 million have been procured under the GSA Federal Supply Schedule. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the revenues on our contracts procured under the GSA Federal Supply Schedule totaled approximately 24% of our consolidated revenues for such period. Our status as a GSA Federal Supply Schedule contractor may be withdrawn if we do not comply with the complex procurement laws and regulations applicable to us. We continually review and monitor our compliance with these laws and regulations as well as modifications to the GSA Federal Supply Schedule affecting our business. We believe that we are currently in material compliance with these laws, regulations and modifications; however, if we are not in compliance and our status as a GSA Federal Supply Schedule contractor is withdrawn, then we may not be able to obtain new contracts with Federal government agencies or renew our existing contracts which have been procured under the GSA Federal Supply Schedule. If we are unable to obtain new Federal government contracts or renew our existing contracts, then our revenues will decline significantly. 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements All of our contracts with the Federal government are subject to audits and cost adjustments by the Federal government that could result in decreased revenues and the imposition on us of civil or criminal penalties or administrative remedies. We generate a significant portion of our revenue from Federal government contracts, each of which is subject to audit by the Federal government. In these audits, the Federal government audits and reviews our performance, pricing practices, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. Like most government contractors, our direct and indirect contract costs are audited and reviewed on a continual basis. Many of the audits for costs incurred or work performed in recent years remain ongoing or have not yet commenced. In addition, non-audit reviews by the government may still be conducted on all our government contracts. An audit of our work, including an audit of work performed by companies we may acquire, could result in a substantial adjustment to our revenue because any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed and revenue we have already recognized may need to be refunded. If a government review or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, then we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of claims and profits, suspension of payments, treble damages, statutory penalties, fines and suspension or barment from doing business with Federal government agencies, any of which would cause a significant decline in our revenue. Our participation in the competitive bidding process, pursuant to which we obtain most of our Federal government contracts, presents a number of risks. During the year ended December 31, 2006, we derived substantially all of our revenue from Federal government contracts that were awarded through a competitive bidding process. Most of the business that we expect to seek from the Federal government in the foreseeable future likely will be awarded through competitive bidding. Competitive bidding presents a number of risks, including the: • need to bid on programs in advance of finalizing the services to be provided, which may result in unforeseen difficulties and cost overruns; • substantial cost and managerial time and effort that we spend to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us; • need to accurately estimate the resources and cost structure that will be required to service any contract we are awarded; and • expense and delay that may arise if our competitors protest or challenge contract awards made to us pursuant to competitive bidding, which could result in the resubmission of bids on modified specifications or in termination, reduction or modification of the awarded contract. If we are unable to win particular contracts that are awarded through the competitive bidding process, we may not be able to operate in the market for services that are provided under those contracts for a number of years. If we are unable to consistently win new contract awards over any extended period, then we will not be able to grow our business, and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. The Miami/Dade County contracts at Cornwall represent a significant portion of our revenue and are subject to renewal in the 4th quarter of 2007 During the year ended December 31, 2006, two of Cornwall’s subsidiaries generated revenue from contracts with Miami/Dade County of $11.7 million. These contracts are subject to renewal in the fourth quarter of 2007 and will be awarded through a competitive bidding process. 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The bid process will be based on a number of factors including price and experience in providing the specific security services called for in the bid process. Competitive bidding represents a number of risks including: • the substantial cost and managerial time and effort that we spend to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us; • the requirement to post a bid bond in order to participate in the bidding process and a performance bond if we win the bid. The bonding requirement may require us to provide a letter of credit or other collateral to the bonding company which may be problematic given our financial condition. • The need to accurately estimate the resources and cost structure that will be required to service any contract we are awarded; and • The expense and delay that may arise if our competitors protest or challenge contract awards made to us pursuant to competitive bidding, which could result in the resubmission of bids on modified specifications or in termination, reduction or modification of the awarded contract. If we are unable to win contracts with Miami/Dade County, we may not be able to provide services to Miami/Dade County for several years. The failure to win Miami/Dade County contracts will significantly reduce the revenue and profits of the Cornwall Group and our business, financial condition and the results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. Our cash flow may be reduced due to significant expenses we may incur in connection with attempting to obtain Federal government contracts. A significant portion of Federal government contracts for contract guard services is awarded through a competitive bid process. As stated above, substantial costs may be incurred in connection with preparing bids. In the past we have not, and most likely in the future will not, be awarded all the contracts on which we bid. Furthermore, if and when we do obtain a contract, we are generally required to start providing services pursuant to such contract no later than 30-45 days after the contract is awarded. As a result, we may incur significant start-up expenses. The costs of bidding on contracts and the start-up costs associated with new contracts we may obtain may significantly reduce our cash flow and liquidity. The long sales cycles of Federal government contracts make it difficult for us to predict our financial results and cause us to expend a significant amount of effort and funds in bidding on contracts that are not awarded to us. The sales cycle of a Federal government contract is often lengthy due to the protracted bid and approval process. Typically, many months may elapse between the time the Federal government solicits a bid for a contract and the time the contract is awarded. The lengthy sales cycles of our contracts make forecasting the volume and timing of contracts we may obtain difficult. During this period, we will generally expend substantial funds and management resources but recognize no associated revenue. We may not receive the full amount authorized under contracts into which we have entered; consequently, our backlog may not accurately estimate our revenue. The maximum contract value specified under a government contract that we enter into is not necessarily indicative of revenue that we will realize under that contract. In fact, even if we enter into a Federal government contract, we will not be paid for our services unless the Federal government has appropriated or budgeted the funds for such contract. Congress often appropriates funds for a particular program on a yearly basis, even though the contract may call for performance that is expected to take a number of years. As a result, contracts typically are only partially funded at any point during their term, and all or some of the work to be performed under the contracts may remain unfunded unless and until Congress makes subsequent appropriations and the procuring agency allocates funding to the contract. As described above, most of our existing contracts are subject to modification and termination at the Federal government’s discretion. Moreover, there is no assurance that any 24 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements contract included in our estimated contract value that generates revenue will be profitable. Nevertheless, we look at these contract values, including values based on the assumed exercise of options relating to these contracts, in estimating the amount of our backlog. Because we may not receive the full amount we expect under a contract, our backlog may not accurately estimate our revenue. If we are unable to obtain and maintain security clearances for our employees, then we will not be able to satisfy existing contracts or obtain new contracts. Many of our Federal government contracts require our employees to maintain various levels of security clearances, and we are required to maintain certain facility security clearances complying with Federal government requirements. Obtaining and maintaining security clearances for employees involve a lengthy process, and it is difficult to identify, recruit and retain employees who already hold security clearances. If our employees are unable to obtain or retain security clearances or if our employees who hold security clearances terminate employment with us, then the customer whose work requires cleared employees could terminate the contract or decide not to renew it upon its expiration. In addition, we expect that many of the contracts on which we will bid will require us to demonstrate our ability to obtain facility security clearances and perform work with employees who hold specified types of security clearances. To the extent we are not able to obtain facility security clearances or engage employees with the required security clearances for a particular contract, we may not be able to satisfy our existing contracts, bid on or win new contracts or effectively re-compete on expiring contracts or follow-on task orders. To the extent we are unable to do any of the foregoing, our existing contracts may be terminated, we will not be able to grow our business and our revenues may decline. Risks Relating to Our Securities Management beneficially owns a significant percentage of the common stock and has the ability to influence all matters requiring the approval of our board of directors and our shareholders. Management owns shares of the common stock which represent approximately 24% of the combined voting power of our outstanding capital stock. Management has the power to influence the election of our directors and all decisions made by our shareholders and, in general, to influence the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. The interests of management may conflict with the interests of our other shareholders. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and Georgia law may have anti-takeover effects that could prevent a change in control which the shareholders consider favorable and could negatively affect your investment. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and our bylaws could delay or prevent a change of control of the Company or a change in our management that would provide shareholders with a premium to the market price of their common stock. Our articles of incorporation currently authorize the issuance of 10,000,000 shares of our preferred stock. Our board of directors has the power to issue any or all of these additional shares without shareholder approval, and such shares can be issued with such rights, preferences and limitations as may be determined by our board of directors. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of any holders of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. We presently have no commitments or contracts to issue any shares of preferred stock. Authorized and unissued preferred stock could delay, discourage, hinder or preclude an unsolicited acquisition of the Company, could make it less likely that shareholders receive a premium for their shares as a result of any such attempt and could adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights, of the holders of outstanding shares of common stock. Currently, we have outstanding 100 shares of our Series C Redeemable Preferred Stock. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws also contain provisions that: • create a classified board of directors that prevents a majority of the board from being elected at one time; • prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of shareholders to elect director candidates; 25 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • limit the ability of shareholders to call special meetings of shareholders; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by shareholders at shareholder meetings. We may experience significant volatility in the price of the common stock even if our business is doing well, which could cause you to lose all or part of your investment. The stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. The market price of the common stock may also fluctuate as a result of variations in our operating results. Due to the nature of our business, the market price of the common stock may fall in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • announcements of competitive developments by us or others; • changes in estimates of our financial performance or changes in recommendations by securities analysts; • any loss by us of a major customer; • additions or departures of key management or other personnel; • our failure to meet financial analysts’ performance expectations or • guidance we provide; • future sales of the common stock or preferred stock; • volume fluctuations; • acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or our competitors; • our historical and anticipated operating results; • quarterly fluctuations in our financial and operating results; • changes in market valuations of other companies that operate in our • business markets or in our industry; and • general market and economic conditions. Accordingly, market fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions such as recessions and interest rate changes, may negatively impact the market price of the common stock, and you may not be able to sell your shares without incurring a loss. We do not intend to pay dividends on the common stock, and you may not experience a return on investment without selling your securities. We have never declared or paid, nor do we intend in the foreseeable future to declare or pay, any cash dividends on the common stock. Because we intend to retain all future earnings to finance the operation and growth of our business, you will likely need to sell your shares in order to realize a return on your investment, if any. Further, the Credit Agreement restricts our ability to pay dividends on our capital stock. 