Risk Factors Risks Related to our Business and the Market Environment Certain of our customers are significant to our revenues, and we could be adversely affected by changes in the business or financial condition of these significant customers or by the loss of their business. Our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 40% of our total net sales in 2005, with Rexam Plc and its affiliates representing approximately 12.5% of our total net sales in that year. A significant downturn in the business or financial condition of our significant customers could materially adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, if our existing relationships with significant customers materially deteriorate or are terminated in the future, and we are not successful in replacing business lost from such customers, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Some of the longer term contracts under which we supply our customers, including under umbrella agreements such as those described under “Business — Our Customers,” are subject to renewal, renegotiation or re-pricing at periodic intervals or upon changes in competitive supply conditions. Our failure to successfully renew, renegotiate or re-price such agreements could result in a reduction or loss in customer purchase volume or revenue, and if we are not successful in replacing business lost from such customers, our results of operations could be adversely affected. The markets in which we operate are competitive and customers may seek to consolidate supplier relationships or change suppliers to obtain cost savings and other benefits. Our profitability could be adversely affected by our inability to pass through metal price increases due to metal price ceilings in certain of our sales contracts. Prices for metal are volatile, have recently been impacted by structural changes in the market, and may increase from time to time. Nearly all of our products have a price structure with two components: (i) a pass-through aluminum price based on the LME plus local market premiums and (ii) a “margin over metal” price based on the conversion cost to produce the rolled product and the competitive market conditions for that product. Sales contracts representing approximately 20% of our total 2005 annual net sales provide for a ceiling over which metal prices cannot contractually be passed through to our customers, unless adjusted. When applicable, these price ceilings prevent us from passing through the complete increase in metal prices under these contracts and, consequently, we absorb those losses. As a result of the increasing price of metal, we incurred losses of approximately $120 million associated with these contracts, without regard to internal or external hedges, during the first six months of 2006. Depending on the fluctuations in metal prices for the remainder of 2006 and other factors, we may continue to incur losses on sales under these contracts. Our efforts to mitigate risk from our contracts with metal price ceilings may not be effective. We employ three strategies to mitigate our risk of rising metal prices that we cannot pass through to certain customers due to metal price ceilings. First, we maximize the amount of our internally supplied metal inputs from our smelting, refining and mining operations in Brazil. Second, we rely on the output from our recycling operations which utilize used beverage cans (UBCs). Both of these strategies have historically provided a benefit as these sources of metal are typically less expensive than purchasing aluminum from third party suppliers. These two strategies are referred to as our internal hedges. While we believe that our primary aluminum production continues to provide the expected benefits during this sustained period of high LME prices, the recycling operations are providing less internal hedge benefit than expected. LME metal prices and other market issues have resulted in higher than expected prices of UBCs thus compressing the internal hedge benefit we receive from this strategy. Beyond our internal hedges described above, our third strategy to mitigate the risk of loss or reduced profitability associated with the metal price ceilings is to purchase call options on projected aluminum volume requirements above our assumed internal hedge position. Derivatives can be very costly, therefore we balance this cost with the benefits provided by the particular instrument before we purchase it. To date, we have not purchased call options to hedge our exposure to the metal price ceilings beyond 2006. 21 Table of Contents While our metal call options will reduce our overall exposure to metal price ceilings, unless adjusted, the reduced effectiveness of our UBC-related internal hedge will negatively impact our financial results for 2006 and beyond, even as the percentage of our total annual net sales under contracts with price ceilings decreases to approximately 10% in 2007. Our results can be negatively impacted by timing differences between the prices we pay under purchase contracts and metal prices charged to our customers. In some of our contracts there is a timing difference between the metal prices we pay under our purchase contracts and the metal prices we charge our customers. As a result, changes in metal prices impact our results, since during such periods we bear the additional cost or benefit of metal price changes which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Our operations consume energy and our profitability may decline if energy costs were to rise, or if our energy supplies were interrupted. We consume substantial amounts of energy in our rolling operations, our cast house operations and our Brazilian smelting operations. The factors that affect our energy costs and supply reliability tend to be specific to each of our facilities. A number of factors could materially adversely affect our energy position including: • increases in costs of natural gas; • significant increases in costs of supplied electricity or fuel oil related to transportation; • interruptions in energy supply due to equipment failure or other causes; and • the inability to extend energy supply contracts upon expiration on economical terms. If energy costs were to rise, or if energy supplies or supply arrangements were disrupted, our profitability could decline. We may not have sufficient cash to pay future dividends and repay indebtedness and we may be limited in our ability to access financing for future capital requirements, which may prevent us from increasing our manufacturing capability, improving our technology or addressing any gaps in our product offerings. Although historically our cash flow from operations has been sufficient to pay dividends, repay indebtedness, satisfy working capital requirements and fund capital expenditure and research and development requirements, in the future we may need to incur additional debt or issue equity in order to fund these requirements as well as to make acquisitions and other investments. To the extent we are unable to raise new capital, we may be unable to increase our manufacturing capability, improve our technology or address any gaps in our product offerings. If we raise funds through the issuance of debt or equity, any debt securities or preferred shares issued will have rights and preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common shares. The terms of the debt securities may impose restrictions on our operations that have an adverse impact on our financial condition. If we raise funds through the issuance of equity, the proportional ownership interests of our shareholders could be diluted. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which could adversely affect our business and therefore make it more difficult for us to fulfill our obligations under our senior secured credit facility and our 71/4% Senior Notes due 2015. As of June 30, 2006, we had total indebtedness of $2,432 million, including the $800 million of debt outstanding under the senior secured credit facilities that we and certain of our subsidiaries entered into in connection with the spin-off transaction. Following the spin-off transaction and the financing transactions, our businesses are operating with significantly more indebtedness and higher interest expenses than they did when they were part of Alcan. 22 Table of Contents Our indebtedness and interest expense could have important consequences to Novelis and holders of Senior Notes, including: • limiting our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, execution of our growth strategy, or other general corporate purposes; • limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to service the debt; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage as compared to our competitors that have less leverage; • limiting our ability to capitalize on business opportunities and to react to competitive pressures and adverse changes in government regulation; • limiting our ability or increasing the costs to refinance indebtedness; and • limiting our ability to enter into marketing, hedging, optimization and trading transactions by reducing the number of counterparties with whom we can enter into such transactions as well as the volume of those transactions. Although we are highly leveraged, the indenture relating to the Senior Notes and the senior secured credit facilities permit us to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. If we or our subsidiaries incur additional debt, the risks we now face as a result of our leverage could intensify. The covenants in the senior secured credit facilities and the indenture governing the Senior Notes impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. The senior secured credit facilities and the indenture governing the Senior Notes impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries, among other things, to: • incur additional debt and provide additional guarantees; • pay dividends beyond certain amounts and make other restricted payments; • create or permit certain liens; • make certain asset sales; • use the proceeds from the sales of assets and subsidiary stock; • create or permit restrictions on the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to us; • engage in certain transactions with affiliates; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • designate subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries; and • consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets or the assets of our restricted subsidiaries. The senior secured credit facility also contains various affirmative covenants, including financial covenants, with which we are required to comply. We believe that we are currently in compliance with the covenants in our senior secured credit facility. However, as described below, we obtained waivers from our lenders related to our inability to timely file our SEC reports. In addition, future operating results substantially below our business plan or other adverse factors, including a significant increase in interest rates, could result in our being unable to comply with our financial covenants. If we do not comply with these covenants and are unable to obtain waivers from our 23 Table of Contents lenders, we would be unable to make additional borrowings under these facilities, our indebtedness under these agreements would be in default and could be accelerated by our lenders and could cause a cross-default under our other indebtedness. In particular, we expect it will be necessary to amend the financial covenant related to our interest coverage and leverage ratios in order to align them with our current business outlook for the remainder of the 2006 fiscal year. In addition, if we incur additional debt in the future, we may be subject to additional covenants, which may be more restrictive than those that we are subject to now. We could face material adverse consequences under covenants in our Senior Notes and our senior secured credit facilities as a result of our late SEC filings. As a result of the restatement of our unaudited condensed consolidated and combined financial statements for the quarters ended March 31, 2005 and June 30, 2005, and our review process as discussed in Item 9A, we delayed the filing of our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005, this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the first two quarters of 2006. The terms of our $1,800 million senior secured credit facility require that we deliver unaudited quarterly and audited annual financial statements to our lenders within specified periods of time. Due to the restatement, we obtained a series of waiver and consent agreements from the lenders under the facility to extend the various filing deadlines. The fourth waiver and consent agreement, dated May 10, 2006, extended the filing deadline for this Annual Report on Form 10-K to September 29, 2006, and the Form 10-Q filing deadlines for the first, second and third quarters of 2006 to October 31, 2006, November 30, 2006, and December 29, 2006, respectively. These extended filing deadlines were subject to acceleration to 30 days after the receipt of an effective notice of default under the indenture governing our Senior Notes relating to our inability to timely file such periodic reports with the SEC. We received an effective notice of default with respect to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our Form 10-Q for the first quarter of 2006 on July 21, 2006 causing these deadlines to accelerate to August 18, 2006. As a result, we entered into a fifth waiver and consent agreement, dated August 11, 2006, which again extended the filing deadline for this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our Form 10-Q for the first quarter of 2006 to September 18, 2006. Subsequent to the effective date of the fifth waiver and consent agreement, we also received an effective notice of default with respect to our Form 10-Q for the second quarter of 2006 on August 24, 2006. The fifth waiver and consent agreement extended the accelerated filing deadline caused as a result of the receipt of the effective notice of default with respect to our Form 10-Q for the second quarter of 2006 to October 22, 2006 (59 days after the receipt of any notice). The fifth waiver and consent agreement would also extend any accelerated filing deadline caused as a result of the receipt of an effective notice of default under the Senior Notes with respect to our Form 10-Q for the third quarter of 2006 to the earlier of 30 days after the receipt of any such notice of default and December 29, 2006. Beginning with the fourth waiver and consent agreement we agreed to a 50 basis point increase in the applicable margin on all current and future borrowings outstanding under our senior secured credit facility, and a 12.5 basis point increase in the commitment fee on the unused portion of our revolving credit facility. These increases will continue until we inform our lenders that we no longer need the benefit of the extended filing deadlines granted in the fifth waiver and consent agreement, at which time the fifth waiver and consent agreement will expire and obligate us to the filing requirements set forth in the senior secured credit facility and the fourth waiver and consent agreement. We believe it is probable that we will file our Form 10-Q for the first quarter of 2006 by September 18, 2006 and our Form 10-Q for the second quarter of 2006 by October 22, 2006; however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so. If we are unable to file our Form 10-Q for the first and second quarters of 2006 by the applicable deadlines, we intend to seek additional waivers from the lenders under our senior secured credit facility to avoid an event of default under the facility. An event of default under the senior secured credit facility would entitle the lenders to terminate the senior secured credit facility and declare all or any portion of the obligations under the facility due and payable. If we were unable to timely file our Form 10-Qs for the first and second quarters of 2006 or obtain additional waivers, we would seek to refinance our senior secured credit facility using a $2,855 million commitment for financing facilities that we obtained from Citigroup Global Markets Inc. (the Commitment Letter). 24 Table of Contents Under the indenture governing the Senior Notes, we are required to deliver to the trustee a copy of our periodic reports filed with the SEC within the time periods specified by SEC rules. As a result of our receipt of effective notices of default from the trustee on July 21, 2006 with respect to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our Form 10-Q for the first quarter of 2006 and on August 24, 2006 with respect to our Form 10-Q for the second quarter of 2006 we are required to file our Form 10-Q for the first quarter of 2006 by September 19, 2006, and our Form 10-Q for the second quarter of 2006 by October 23, 2006 in order to prevent an event of default. From June 22, 2006 to July 19, 2006, we solicited consents from the noteholders to a proposed amendment of certain provisions of the indenture and a waiver of defaults thereunder; however, we did not receive a sufficient number of consents and the consent solicitation lapsed. If we fail to file our Form 10-Qs for the first and second quarters of 2006 by the applicable deadlines, the trustee or holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes may elect to accelerate the maturity of the Senior Notes. We believe it is probable that we will file our Form 10-Qs for the first and second quarters of 2006 by the applicable deadlines; however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so. If we are unable to file our Form 10-Qs for the first and second quarters of 2006 by the applicable deadlines, we intend to amend the facility so we may refinance the Senior Notes utilizing the Commitment Letter, likely through a tender offer for the Senior Notes. We will obtain this refinancing from the lenders under our senior secured credit facility or, if we are unsuccessful in obtaining the necessary approvals from our lenders to refinance the Senior Notes, we intend to rely on the Commitment Letter to refinance the senior secured credit facility and repay the Senior Notes. On July 26, 2006, we entered into the Commitment Letter with Citigroup Global Markets Inc. (Citigroup) for backstop financing facilities totaling approximately $2,855 million. Under the terms of the Commitment Letter, Citigroup has agreed that, in the event we are unable to cure the default under the Senior Notes by September 19, 2006, Citigroup will (a) provide loans in an amount sufficient to repurchase the Senior Notes, (b) use commercially reasonable efforts to obtain the requisite approval from the lenders under our senior secured credit facility for an amendment permitting these additional loans, and (c) in the event that such lender approval is not obtained, provide us with replacement senior secured credit facilities, in addition to the loans to be used to repay the Senior Notes. Under any of the refinancing alternatives discussed above, we would incur significant costs and expenses, including professional fees and other transaction costs. We also anticipate that it will be necessary to pay significant waiver and amendment fees in connection with the potential amendments to our senior secured credit facility described above. In addition, if we are successful in refinancing any or all of our outstanding debt under the Commitment Letter, we are likely to experience an increase to the applicable interest rates over the life of any new debt in excess of our current interest rates, based on prevailing market conditions and our credit risk. While we expect that funding will be available under the Commitment Letter to refinance our Senior Notes and/or our senior secured credit facility if necessary, if financing is not available under the Commitment Letter for any reason, we would not have sufficient liquidity to repay our debt. Accordingly, we would be required to negotiate an alternative restructuring or refinancing of our debt. Any acceleration of the outstanding debt under the senior secured credit facility would result in a cross-default under our Senior Notes. Similarly, the occurrence of an event of default under our Senior Notes would result in a cross-default under the senior secured credit facility. Further, the acceleration of outstanding debt under our senior secured credit facility or our Senior Notes would result in defaults under other contracts and agreements, including certain interest rate and foreign currency derivative contracts, giving the counterparty to such contracts the right to terminate. As of June 30, 2006, we had out-of-the-money derivatives valued at approximately $86 million that the counterparties would have the ability to terminate upon the occurrence of an event of default. We believe it is probable that we will file our Form 10-Q for the first quarter of 2006 by September 18, 2006 and our Form 10-Q for the second quarter of 2006 by October 22, 2006. Accordingly, we continue to classify the senior secured credit facility and our Senior Notes as long-term debt as of December 31, 2005. 25 Table of Contents We could face additional adverse consequences as a result of our late SEC filings. Our future success also depends upon the support of our customers, suppliers and investors. Our late SEC filings have resulted in negative publicity and may have a negative impact on the market price of our common stock. The effects of our late SEC filings could cause some of our customers or potential customers to refrain from purchasing or defer decisions to purchase our products and services. Additionally, current or potential suppliers may re-examine their willingness to do business with us, to develop critical interfaces to our products or to supply products and services if they lose confidence in our ability to fulfill our commitments. Any of these losses could have a material adverse effect on our business. We will continue to incur additional expenses until we are current in our SEC reporting and have established the appropriate controls to continue to report our results on a timely basis. The expenses incurred in connection with the restatement and review process were approximately $30 million through June 30, 2006. These expenses include professional fees, audit fees, credit waiver and consent fees, and special interest on our Senior Notes. In addition, as a result of our late SEC filings we will not be eligible to use a “short form” registration statement on Form S-3 or incorporate information by reference into our registration statement on Form S-4 filed in connection with the exchange offer for our Senior Notes, and may not be eligible to use a short form registration statement in the future if we continue to fail to satisfy the conditions required to use short form registration. Our inability to use a short form registration statement may impair our ability or increase the costs and complexity of our efforts to raise funds in the public markets or use our stock as consideration in acquisitions should we desire to do so during this one year period. In addition, our inability to incorporate information by reference into our registration statement on Form S-4 for the exchange offer for our Senior Notes may delay the completion of the exchange offer. We will be subject to higher interest rates under our Senior Notes until we can complete a registered exchange offer. The indenture governing the Senior Notes and the related registration rights agreement required us to file a registration statement for the notes and exchange the original, privately placed notes for registered notes. The registration statement was declared effective by the SEC on September 27, 2005. Under the indenture and the related registration rights agreement, we were required to complete the exchange offer for the Senior Notes by November 11, 2005. We did not complete the exchange offer by that date. As a result, we began to accrue additional special interest at a rate of 0.25% from November 11, 2005. The indenture and the registration rights agreement provide that the rate of additional special interest increases by 0.25% during each subsequent 90-day period until the exchange offer closes, with the maximum amount of additional special interest being 1.00% per year. On August 8, 2006 the rate of additional special interest increased to 1.00%. On August 14, 2006, we extended the offer to exchange the Senior Notes to October 20, 2006. We expect to file a post-effective amendment to the registration statement and complete the exchange as soon as practicable following the date we are current on our reporting requirements. We will cease paying additional special interest once the exchange offer is completed. A deterioration of our financial position or a downgrade of our ratings by a credit rating agency could increase our borrowing costs and our business relationships could be adversely affected. A deterioration of our financial position or a downgrade of our ratings for any reason could increase our borrowing costs and have an adverse effect on our business relationships. From time to time, we enter into various forms of hedging activities against currency or metal price fluctuations and trade metal contracts on the London Metal Exchange, or LME. Financial strength and credit ratings are important to the pricing of these hedging and trading activities. As a result, any downgrade of our credit ratings may make it more costly for us to engage in these activities, and changes to our level of indebtedness may make it more costly for us to engage in these activities in the future. 26 Table of Contents Adverse changes in currency exchange rates could negatively affect our financial results and the competitiveness of our aluminum rolled products relative to other materials. Our businesses and operations are exposed to the effects of changes in the exchange rates of the U.S. dollar, the Euro, the British pound, the Brazilian real, the Canadian dollar, the Korean won and other currencies. We have implemented a hedging policy that attempts to manage currency exchange rate risks to an acceptable level based on our management’s judgment of the appropriate trade-off between risk, opportunity and cost; however, this hedging policy may not successfully or completely eliminate the effects of currency exchange rate fluctuations which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We prepare our consolidated and combined financial statements in U.S. dollars, but a portion of our earnings and expenditures are denominated in other currencies, primarily the Euro, the Korean won and the Brazilian real. Changes in exchange rates will result in increases or decreases in our reported costs and earnings, and may also affect the book value of our assets located outside the United States and the amount of our equity. Primary aluminum is purchased based upon LME aluminum trading prices denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result, and because we generally sell our rolled products on a “margin over metal” price, increases in the relative value of the U.S. dollar against the local currency in which sales are made can make aluminum rolled products less attractive to our customers than substitute materials, such as steel or glass, whose manufacturing costs may be more closely linked to the local currency, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Most of our facilities are staffed by a unionized workforce, and union disputes and other employee relations issues could materially adversely affect our financial results. Approximately three-quarters of our employees are represented by labor unions under a large number of collective bargaining agreements with varying durations and expiration dates. We may not be able to satisfactorily renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements when they expire. In addition, existing collective bargaining agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage at our facilities in the future, and any such work stoppage could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Our operations have been and will continue to be exposed to various business and other risks, changes in conditions and events beyond our control in countries where we have operations or sell products. We are, and will continue to be, subject to financial, political, economic and business risks in connection with our global operations. We have made investments and carry on production activities in various emerging markets, including Brazil, Korea and Malaysia, and we market our products in these countries, as well as China and certain other countries in Asia. While we anticipate higher growth or attractive production opportunities from these emerging markets, they also present a higher degree of risk than more developed markets. In addition to the business risks inherent in developing and servicing new markets, economic conditions may be more volatile, legal and regulatory systems less developed and predictable, and the possibility of various types of adverse governmental action more pronounced. In addition, inflation, fluctuations in currency and interest rates, competitive factors, civil unrest and labor problems could affect our revenues, expenses and results of operations. Our operations could also be adversely affected by acts of war, terrorism or the threat of any of these events as well as government actions such as controls on imports, exports and prices, tariffs, new forms of taxation, or changes in fiscal regimes and increased government regulation in the countries in which we operate or service customers. Unexpected or uncontrollable events or circumstances in any of these markets could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We could be adversely affected by disruptions of our operations. Breakdown of equipment or other events, including catastrophic events such as war or natural disasters, leading to production interruptions in our plants could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Further, because many of our customers are, to varying degrees, dependent on planned deliveries from our plants, those customers that have to reschedule their own production due to our missed deliveries could pursue 27 Table of Contents financial claims against us. We may incur costs to correct any of these problems, in addition to facing claims from customers. Further, our reputation among actual and potential customers may be harmed, potentially resulting in a loss of business. While we maintain insurance policies covering, among other things, physical damage, business interruptions and product liability, these policies may not cover all of our losses and we could incur uninsured losses and liabilities arising from such events, including damage to our reputation, loss of customers and suffer substantial losses in operational capacity, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We may not be able to successfully develop and implement new technology initiatives in a timely manner. We have invested in, and are involved with, a number of technology and process initiatives. Several technical aspects of these initiatives are still unproven and the eventual commercial outcomes cannot be assessed with any certainty. Even if we are successful with these initiatives, we may not be able to deploy them in a timely fashion. Accordingly, the costs and benefits from our investments in new technologies and the consequent effects on our financial results may vary from present expectations. Loss of our key management and other personnel, or an inability to attract such management and other personnel, could impact our business. We depend on our senior executive officers and other key personnel to run our business. The loss of any of these officers or other key personnel could materially adversely affect our operations. Competition for qualified employees among companies that rely heavily on engineering and technology is intense, and the loss of qualified employees or an inability to attract, retain and motivate additional highly skilled employees required for the operation and expansion of our business could hinder our ability to improve manufacturing operations, conduct research activities successfully and develop marketable products. If we fail to establish and maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we may have material misstatements in our financial statements and we may not be able to report our financial results in a timely manner. Our chief executive officer and chief financial officer performed an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) or 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”)) as of December 31, 2005 and concluded that they were not effective at a reasonable level as a result of the material weaknesses described below. The following material weaknesses were identified in connection with the restatement of our unaudited condensed consolidated and combined financial statements for the interim periods ended March 31, 2005 and June 30, 2005: • lack of sufficient resources in our accounting and finance organization; • inadequate monitoring of non-routine and non-systematic transactions; • accounting for accrued expenses; • accounting for income taxes; and • accounting for derivative transactions. These material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting contributed to the restatements to our unaudited condensed consolidated and combined financial statements for the quarter ended March 31, 2005 and for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2005. We cannot be certain that any remedial measures we take will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to implement new or improved controls or difficulties encountered in their implementation could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. In particular, if the material weaknesses described above are not remediated, they could result in a misstatement of our accounts and disclosures that could result in a material misstatement to our annual or interim consolidated financial 28 Table of Contents statements in future periods that would not be prevented or detected. For further discussion of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, see “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures.” In connection with our remediation efforts, we underwent changes in several key financial management positions in 2005 and 2006. Our inability or difficulty in integrating new financial management into our company could hinder our ability to timely file our reports with the SEC, and to remediate and improve our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures. We were not required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Section 404) and related SEC rules and regulations to perform an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005. We are, however, required to perform such an evaluation for the year ending December 31, 2006 and such evaluation will be based on the criteria set forth in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). We cannot assure you that the material weaknesses described above will be fully remediated prior to the conclusion of this evaluation, or that we will not uncover additional material weaknesses as of December 31, 2006. Any such failure would also adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor reports regarding the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting under Section 404. We may not be able to adequately protect proprietary rights to our technology. Although we attempt to protect our proprietary technology and processes and other intellectual property through patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights, confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements and other measures, these measures may not be adequate to protect our intellectual property. Because of differences in intellectual property laws throughout the world, our intellectual property may be substantially less protected in various international markets than it is in the United States and Canada. Failure on our part to adequately protect our intellectual property may materially adversely affect our financial results. Furthermore, we may be subject to claims that our technology infringes the intellectual property rights of another. Even if without merit, those claims could result in costly and prolonged litigation, divert management’s attention and could materially adversely affect our business. In addition, we may be required to enter into licensing agreements in order to continue using technology that is important to our business, or we may be unable to obtain license agreements on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. Past and future acquisitions or divestitures may adversely affect our financial condition. We have grown partly through the acquisition of other businesses including businesses acquired by Alcan in its 2000 acquisition of the Alusuisse Group Ltd. and its 2003 acquisition of Pechiney, both of which were integrated aluminum companies. As part of our strategy for growth, we may continue to pursue acquisitions, divestitures or strategic alliances, which may not be completed or, if completed, may not be ultimately beneficial to us. There are numerous risks commonly encountered in business combinations, including the risk that we may not be able to complete a transaction that has been announced, effectively integrate businesses acquired or generate the cost savings and synergies anticipated. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We could be required to make unexpected contributions to our defined benefit pension plans as a result of adverse changes in interest rates and the capital markets. Most of our pension obligations relate to funded defined benefit pension plans for our employees in the United States, the United Kingdom and Canada, unfunded pension benefits in Germany, and lump sum indemnities payable to our employees in France, Italy, Korea and Malaysia upon retirement or termination. Our pension plan assets consist primarily of listed stocks and bonds. Our estimates of liabilities and expenses for pensions and other post-retirement benefits incorporate a number of assumptions, including expected long-term rates of return on plan assets and interest rates used to discount future benefits. Our results of operations, liquidity or shareholders’ equity in a particular period could be adversely affected by capital market returns 29 Table of Contents that are less than their assumed long-term rate of return or a decline of the rate used to discount future benefits. If the assets of our pension plans do not achieve assumed investment returns for any period, such deficiency could result in one or more charges against our earnings for that period. In addition, changing economic conditions, poor pension investment returns or other factors may require us to make unexpected cash contributions to the pension plans in the future, preventing the use of such cash for other purposes. In addition to existing defined benefit pension plans, we have elected in the spin-off agreements in 2005 to assume pension liabilities from the U.S., U.K. and Canadian pension plans that we currently share with Alcan. The assumption of such liabilities will occur in 2006 via the transfer of assets from Alcan pension plans to either the newly created U.S. pension plan or to the existing U.K. and Canadian pension plans. The amount of the pension asset transfer is currently under consideration. It is expected that the assumption of liabilities will exceed the transfer of assets resulting in a corresponding decrease in shareholders’ equity. We face risks relating to certain joint ventures and subsidiaries that we do not entirely control. Our ability to generate cash from these entities may be more restricted than if such entities were wholly owned subsidiaries. Some of our activities are, and will in the future be, conducted through entities that we do not entirely control or wholly own. These entities include our Norf, Germany and Logan, Kentucky joint ventures, as well as our majority-owned Korean and Malaysian subsidiaries. Our Malaysian subsidiary is a public company whose shares are listed for trading on the Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad. Under the governing documents or agreements of, securities laws applicable to or stock exchange listing rules relative to certain of these joint ventures and subsidiaries, our ability to fully control certain operational matters may be limited. In addition, we do not solely determine certain key matters, such as the timing and amount of cash distributions from these entities. As a result, our ability to generate cash from these entities may be more restricted than if they were wholly owned entities. Risks Related to Operating Our Business Following Our Spin-off from Alcan We have a limited operating history as an independent company and we may be unable to successfully operate as an independent company in the future. Prior to the spin-off, our business was operated by Alcan primarily within two business groups of its broader corporate organization rather than as a stand-alone company. Alcan performed corporate functions related to our business prior to the spin-off and continued to provide us with transitional services pursuant to agreements entered into in connection with the spin-off. As of June 30, 2006, all but three of these agreements had either expired by their terms or been terminated. The substantial majority of our regional and corporate level managers involved in core business operations are former Alcan employees. Similarly, a number of our accounting and finance personnel are former Alcan employees. We also continue to utilize significant third-party consultants and advisors in connection with our accounting and finance functions. We are still in the process of recruiting accounting and finance personnel and do not yet have permanent resources in place sufficient to prepare our financial statements and the required regulatory filings without reliance on these third-party contractors. If we are unable to hire the appropriate accounting and finance personnel, we may continue to fail to timely satisfy our SEC reporting obligations. Further, if we are unable to hire the appropriate personnel, we may not be able to remediate weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting described in Item 9A of Part II of this Annual Report, which could result in material misstatements to our annual consolidated and combined or interim unaudited condensed consolidated and combined financial statements in future periods that would not be prevented or detected. 30 Table of Contents Our agreements with Alcan do not reflect the same terms and conditions to which two unaffiliated parties might have agreed. The allocation of assets, liabilities, rights, indemnifications and other obligations between Alcan and us under the separation and ancillary agreements we entered into with Alcan do not reflect what two unaffiliated parties might have otherwise agreed. Had these agreements been negotiated with unaffiliated third parties, their terms may have been more favorable, or less favorable, to us. We have supply agreements with Alcan for a portion of our raw materials requirements. If Alcan is unable to deliver sufficient quantities of these materials or if it terminates these agreements, our ability to manufacture products on a timely basis could be adversely affected. The manufacture of our products requires sheet ingot that has historically been, in part, supplied by Alcan. In 2005, we purchased the majority of our third party sheet ingot requirements from Alcan’s primary metal group. In connection with the spin-off, we entered into metal supply agreements with Alcan upon terms and conditions substantially similar to market terms and conditions for the continued purchase of sheet ingot from Alcan. If Alcan is unable to deliver sufficient quantities of this material on a timely basis or if Alcan terminates one or more of these agreements, our production may be disrupted and our net sales and profitability could be materially adversely affected. Although aluminum is traded on the world markets, developing alternative suppliers for that portion of our raw material requirements we expect to be supplied by Alcan could be time consuming and expensive. Our continuous casting operations at our Saguenay Works, Canada facility depend upon a local supply of molten aluminum from Alcan. In 2005, Alcan’s primary metal group supplied approximately 176 kilotonnes of such material to us, representing all of the molten aluminum used at Saguenay Works in 2005. In connection with the spin-off, we entered into a metal supply agreement on terms determined primarily by Alcan for the continued purchase of molten aluminum from Alcan. If this supply were to be disrupted, our Saguenay Works production could be interrupted and our net sales and profitability materially adversely affected. We may lose key rights if a change in control of our voting shares were to occur. Our separation agreement with Alcan provides that if we experience a change in control in our voting shares during the five years following the spin-off and if the entity acquiring control does not agree with Alcan not to compete in the plate and aerospace products markets, Alcan may terminate any or all of certain agreements we currently have with Alcan. The termination of any of these agreements could deprive any potential acquirer of certain services, resources or rights necessary to the conduct of our business. Replacement of these assets could be difficult or impossible, resulting in a material adverse effect on our business operations, net sales and profitability. In addition, the potential termination of these agreements could prevent us from entering into future business transactions such as acquisitions or joint ventures at terms favorable to us or at all. We could incur significant tax liability, or be liable to Alcan, if certain transactions occur which violate tax-free spin-off rules. Under Section 55 of the Income Tax Act (Canada), we and/or Alcan will recognize a taxable gain on our spin-off from Alcan if, among other specified circumstances, (1) within three years of our spin-off from Alcan, we engage in a subsequent spin-off or split-up transaction under Section 55, (2) a shareholder who (together with non-arm’s length persons and certain other persons) owns 10% or more of our common shares or Alcan common shares, disposes to a person unrelated to such shareholder of any such shares (or property that derives 10% or more of its value from such shares or property substituted therefor) as part of the series of transactions which includes our spin-off from Alcan, (3) there is a change of control of us or of Alcan that is part of the series of transactions that includes our spin-off from Alcan, (4) we sell to a person unrelated to us (otherwise than in the ordinary course of operations) as part of the series of transactions that includes our spin-off from Alcan, property acquired in our spin-off from Alcan that has a value greater than 10% of the value of all property received in the spin-off from Alcan, (5) within three years of our spin-off from Alcan, Alcan 31 Table of Contents completes a split-up (but not spin-off) transaction under Section 55, (6) Alcan makes certain acquisitions of property before and in contemplation of our spin-off from Alcan, (7) certain shareholders of Alcan and certain other persons acquired shares of Alcan (other than in specified permitted transactions) in contemplation of our spin-off from Alcan, or (8) Alcan sells to a person unrelated to it (otherwise than in the ordinary course of operations) as part of the series of transactions or events which includes our spin-off from Alcan, property retained by Alcan on the spin-off that has value greater than 10% of the value of all property retained by Alcan on our spin-off from Alcan. We would generally be required to indemnify Alcan for tax liabilities incurred by Alcan under the tax sharing and disaffiliation agreement if Alcan’s tax liability arose because of (i) a breach of our representations, warranties or covenants in the tax sharing and disaffiliation agreement, (ii) certain acts or omissions by us (such as a transaction described in (1) above), or (iii) an acquisition of control of us. Alcan would generally be required to indemnify us for tax under the tax sharing and disaffiliation agreement if our tax liability arose because of (i) a breach of Alcan’s representations, warranties or covenants in the tax sharing and disaffiliation agreement, or (ii) certain acts or omissions by Alcan (such as a transaction described in (5) above). These liabilities and the related indemnity payments could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Our U.S. subsidiary, Novelis Corporation, has agreed under the tax sharing and disaffiliation agreement to certain restrictions that are intended to preserve the tax-free status of the spin-off transaction in the United States for United States federal income tax purposes. These restrictions will, among other things, limit generally for two years from the spin-off date Novelis Corporation’s ability to issue or sell shares or other equity-related securities, to sell its assets outside the ordinary course of business, and to enter into any other corporate transaction that would result in a person acquiring, directly or indirectly, a majority of Novelis Corporation, including an interest in Novelis Corporation through holding our shares. If we breach any of these covenants, we generally will be required to indemnify Alcan Corporation, the intermediate holding company for Alcan’s U.S. operations, for the United States federal income tax resulting from a failure of the spin-off transactions in the United States to be tax-free for United States federal income tax purposes. These liabilities and the related indemnity payments could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. These potential liabilities could prevent us from entering into business transactions at favorable terms to us or at all. We may be required to satisfy certain indemnification obligations to Alcan, or may not be able to collect on indemnification rights from Alcan. In connection with the spin-off, we and Alcan agreed to indemnify each other for certain liabilities and obligations related to, in the case of our indemnity, the business transferred to us, and in the case of Alcan’s indemnity, the business retained by Alcan. These indemnification obligations could be significant. We cannot determine whether we will have to indemnify Alcan for any substantial obligations in the future or the outcome of any disputes over spin-off matters. We also cannot be assured that if Alcan has to indemnify us for any substantial obligations, Alcan will be able to satisfy those obligations. We may have potential business conflicts of interest with Alcan with respect to our past and ongoing relationships that could harm our business operations. A number of our commercial arrangements with Alcan that existed prior to the spin-off transaction, our spin-off arrangements and our post-spin-off commercial agreements with Alcan could be the subject of differing interpretation and disagreement in the future. These agreements may be resolved in a manner different from the manner in which disputes were resolved when we were part of the Alcan group. This could in turn affect our relationship with Alcan and ultimately harm our business operations. 32 Table of Contents Our agreement not to compete with Alcan in certain end-use markets may hinder our ability to take advantage of new business opportunities. In connection with the spin-off, we agreed not to compete with Alcan for a period of five years from the spin-off date in the manufacture, production and sale of certain products for use in the plate and aerospace markets. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to pursue successfully new business opportunities, which could limit our potential sources of revenue and growth. See “Business — Arrangements Between Novelis and Alcan — Separation Agreement.” Our historical financial information may not be representative of results we would have achieved as an independent company or our future results. The historical financial information in our combined financial statements prior to January 6, 2005 has been derived from Alcan’s consolidated financial statements and does not necessarily reflect what our results of operations, financial position or cash flows would have been had we been an independent company during the periods presented. For this reason, as well as the inherent uncertainties of our business, the historical financial information does not necessarily indicate what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows will be in the future. We expect to spend significant amounts of time and resources building a new brand identity. Prior to our spin-off from Alcan, we marketed our products under the Alcan name, which has a strong reputation within the markets we serve. We have now adopted new trademarks and trade names to reflect our new company name. Although we are continuing to engage in significant marketing activities and intend to spend significant amounts of time and resources to develop a new brand identity, potential customers, business partners and investors generally may not associate Alcan’s reputation and expertise with our products and services. Furthermore, our name change also may cause difficulties in recruiting qualified personnel. If we fail to build brand recognition, we may not be able to maintain the leading market positions that we have developed while we were part of Alcan, which could harm our financial results. As we build our information technology infrastructure and complete the transition of our data to our own systems, we could experience temporary interruptions in business operations and incur additional costs. We have created our own, or have engaged third parties to provide, information technology infrastructure and systems to support our critical business functions, including accounting and reporting, in order to replace many of the systems Alcan provided to us. We may incur temporary interruptions in business operations as we finalize the transition from Alcan’s existing operating systems, databases and programming languages that support these functions to our own systems. Our failure to complete this transition successfully and cost-effectively could disrupt our business operations and have a material adverse effect on our profitability. In addition, our costs for the operation of these systems may be higher than the amounts reflected in our historical combined financial statements. Risks Related to Our Industry We face significant price and other forms of competition from other aluminum rolled products producers, which could hurt our results of operations. Generally, the markets in which we operate are highly competitive. We compete primarily on the basis of our value proposition, including price, product quality, ability to meet customers’ specifications, range of products offered, lead times, technical support and customer service. Some of our competitors may benefit from greater capital resources, have more efficient technologies, or have lower raw material and energy costs and may be able to sustain longer periods of price competition. In addition, our competitive position within the global aluminum rolled products industry may be affected by, among other things, the recent trend toward consolidation among our competitors, exchange rate fluctuations that may make our products less competitive in relation to the products of companies based in 33 Table of Contents other countries (despite the U.S. dollar based input cost and the marginal costs of shipping) and economies of scale in purchasing, production and sales, which accrue to the benefit of some of our competitors. Increased competition could cause a reduction in our shipment volumes and profitability or increase our expenditures, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. The end-use markets for certain of our products are highly competitive and customers are willing to accept substitutes for our products. The end-use markets for certain aluminum rolled products are highly competitive. Aluminum competes with other materials, such as steel, plastics, composite materials and glass, among others, for various applications, including in beverage/food cans and automotive end-use applications. In the past, customers have demonstrated a willingness to substitute other materials for aluminum. For example, changes in consumer preferences in beverage containers have increased the use of PET plastic containers and glass bottles in recent years. These trends may continue. The willingness of customers to accept substitutes for aluminum products could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. A downturn in the economy could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Certain end-use applications for aluminum rolled products, such as construction and industrial and transportation applications, experience demand cycles that are highly correlated to the general economic environment, which is sensitive to a number of factors outside our control. A recession or a slowing of the economy in any of the geographic segments in which we operate, including China where significant economic growth is expected, or a decrease in manufacturing activity in industries such as automotive, construction and packaging and consumer goods, could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We are not able to predict the timing, extent and duration of the economic cycles in the markets in which we operate. The seasonal nature of some of our customers’ industries could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. The construction industry and the consumption of beer and soda are sensitive to climatic conditions and as a result, demand for aluminum rolled products in the construction industry and for can feedstock can be seasonal. Our quarterly financial results could fluctuate as a result of climatic changes, and a prolonged series of cold summers in the different regions in which we conduct our business could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We are subject to a broad range of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, and we may be exposed to substantial environmental, health and safety costs and liabilities. We are subject to a broad range of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. These laws and regulations impose increasingly stringent environmental, health and safety protection standards and permitting requirements regarding, among other things, air emissions, wastewater storage, treatment and discharges, the use and handling of hazardous or toxic materials, waste disposal practices, and the remediation of environmental contamination and working conditions for our employees. Some environmental laws, such as Superfund and comparable laws in U.S. states and other jurisdictions world-wide, impose joint and several liability for the cost of environmental remediation, natural resource damages, third-party claims, and other expenses, without regard to the fault or the legality of the original conduct, on those persons who contributed to the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. The costs of complying with these laws and regulations, including participation in assessments and remediation of contaminated sites and installation of pollution control facilities, have been, and in the future could be, significant. In addition, these laws and regulations may also result in substantial environmental liabilities associated with divested assets, third-party locations and past activities. In certain instances, these costs and liabilities, as well as related action to be taken by us, could be accelerated or increased if we were 34 Table of Contents to close, divest of or change the principal use of certain facilities with respect to which we may have environmental liabilities or remediation obligations. Currently, we are involved in a number of compliance efforts, remediation activities and legal proceedings concerning environmental matters, including certain activities and proceedings arising under Superfund and comparable laws in U.S. states and other jurisdictions world-wide. We have established reserves for environmental remediation activities and liabilities where appropriate. However, the cost of addressing environmental matters (including the timing of any charges related thereto) cannot be predicted with certainty, and these reserves may not ultimately be adequate, especially in light of potential changes in environmental conditions, changing interpretations of laws and regulations by regulators and courts, the discovery of previously unknown environmental conditions, the risk of governmental orders to carry out additional compliance on certain sites not initially included in remediation in progress, our potential liability to remediate sites for which provisions have not been previously established and the adoption of more stringent environmental laws. Such future developments could result in increased environmental costs and liabilities and could require significant capital expenditures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results. Furthermore, the failure to comply with our obligations under the environmental laws and regulations could subject us to administrative, civil or criminal penalties, obligations to pay damages or other costs, and injunctions or other orders, including orders to cease operations. In addition, the presence of environmental contamination at our properties could adversely affect our ability to sell property, receive full value for a property or use a property as collateral for a loan. Some of our current and potential operations are located or could be located in or near communities that may regard such operations as having a detrimental effect on their social and economic circumstances. Environmental laws typically provide for participation in permitting decisions, site remediation decisions and other matters. Concern about environmental justice issues may affect our operations. Should such community objections be presented to government officials, the consequences of such a development may have a material adverse impact upon the profitability or, in extreme cases, the viability of an operation. In addition, such developments may adversely affect our ability to expand or enter into new operations in such location or elsewhere and may also have an effect on the cost of our environmental remediation projects. We use a variety of hazardous materials and chemicals in our rolling processes, as well as in our smelting operations in Brazil and in connection with maintenance work on our manufacturing facilities. Because of the nature of these substances or related residues, we may be liable for certain costs, including, among others, costs for health-related claims or removal or re-treatment of such substances. Certain of our current and former facilities incorporate asbestos-containing materials, a hazardous substance that has been the subject of health-related claims for occupation exposure. In addition, although we have developed environmental, health and safety programs for our employees, including measures to reduce employee exposure to hazardous substances, and conduct regular assessments at our facilities, we are currently, and in the future may be, involved in claims and litigation filed on behalf of persons alleging injury predominantly as a result of occupational exposure to substances or other hazards at our current or former facilities. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of these claims and lawsuits due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. If these claims and lawsuits, individually or in the aggregate, were finally resolved against us, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. We may be exposed to significant legal proceedings or investigations. From time to time, we are involved in, or the subject of, disputes, proceedings and investigations with respect to a variety of matters, including environmental, health and safety, product liability, employee, tax, contractual and other matters as well as other disputes and proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business. Certain of these matters are discussed in the preceding risk factor and certain others are discussed below under “Business — Legal Proceedings.” Any claims against us or any investigations involving us, whether meritorious or not, could be costly to defend or comply with and could divert management’s attention as well as operational resources. Any such dispute, litigation or investigation, whether currently pending or threatened or in the future, may have a material adverse effect on our financial results and cash flows. 35 Table of Contents Product liability claims against us could result in significant costs or negatively impact our reputation and could adversely affect our business results and financial condition. We are sometimes exposed to warranty and product liability claims. There can be no assurance that we will not experience material product liability losses arising from such claims in the future and that these will not have a negative impact on our net sales and profitability. We generally maintain insurance against many product liability risks but there can be no assurance that this coverage will be adequate for any liabilities ultimately incurred. In addition, there is no assurance that insurance will continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. A successful claim that exceeds our available insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and cash flows. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Shares The market price and trading volume of our shares may be volatile. The market price of our common shares could fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including for reasons unrelated to our specific performance, such as reports by industry analysts, investor perceptions, or negative announcements by our customers, competitors or suppliers regarding their own performance, as well as general economic and industry conditions. For example, to the extent that other large companies within our industry experience declines in their share price, our share price may decline as well. In addition, when the market price of a company’s shares drops significantly, shareholders often institute securities class action lawsuits against the company. A lawsuit against us could cause us to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of our management and other resources. The terms of our spin-off from Alcan and our shareholder rights plan could delay or prevent a change of control that shareholders may consider favorable. We could incur significant tax liability, or be liable to Alcan for the resulting tax, if certain events described under “— Risks related to our spin-off from Alcan” occur. We could, for example, incur significant tax liability, or be liable to Alcan, if certain transactions occur which violate tax-free spin-off rules and cause the spin-off to be taxable to Alcan. This indemnity obligation, or our potential tax liability, either of which could be significant, might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that shareholders may consider favorable. The rights of Alcan to terminate certain of our agreements in circumstances relating to a change in control of our voting shares also might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that shareholders may consider favorable. See “Item 1. Business — Arrangements Between Novelis and Alcan” for a more detailed description of these agreements and provisions. In addition, our shareholder rights plan also may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or other change of control that shareholders may consider favorable. We may not issue dividends in the future. Each quarter our board of directors determines whether to issue a quarterly dividend. There can be no assurance that we will issue dividends in the future. The decision to continue issuing dividends will depend on, among other things, our financial resources, cash flows generated by our business, our cash requirements, restrictions under the instruments governing our indebtedness and other relevant factors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 