Item 1A. Risk FactorsRisks Inherent in Our BusinessOur business depends on hydrocarbon supply and demand fundamentals, which can be adversely affected by numerous factors outside of our control. Our success depends on the supply and demand for natural gas, NGLs and crude oil. The degree to which our business is impacted by changes in supply or demand varies. Our business can be negatively impacted by sustained downturns in supply and demand for one or more commodities, including reductions in our ability to renew contracts on favorable terms and to construct new infrastructure. For example, major factors that will impact natural gas demand domestically will be the realization of potential liquefied natural gas exports and demand growth within the power generation market, and a major factor impacting oil and gas supplies has been the significant growth in unconventional sources such as shale plays. In addition, the supply and demand for natural gas, NGLs and crude oil for our business will depend on many other factors outside of our control, some of which include: •adverse changes in general global economic conditions. The level and speed of the recovery from the recent recession remains uncertain and could impact the supply and demand for natural gas and our future rate of growth in our business;•adverse changes in domestic regulations that could impact the supply or demand for oil and gas;•technological advancements that may drive further increases in production and reduction in costs of developing shale plays;•competition from imported supplies and alternate fuels;•increased commodity prices that could negatively impact demand for these products;•increased costs to explore for, develop, produce, gather, process or transport commodities;•adoption of various energy efficiency and conservation measures; and•perceptions of customers on the availability and price volatility of our services, particularly customers’ perceptions on the volatility of commodity prices over the longer-term.21Table of ContentsIf volatility and seasonality in the oil and gas industry decrease, because of increased production capacity or otherwise, the demand for our services and the prices that we will be able to charge for those services may decline. In addition to volatility and seasonality, an extended period of high commodity prices would likely place upward pressure on the costs of associated expansion activities. An extended period of low commodity prices could adversely impact storage and transportation values for some period of time until market conditions adjust. These commodity price impacts could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Our future growth may be limited if we do not complete growth projects or make acquisitions.Our business strategy depends on our ability to complete growth projects and make acquisitions that increase cash generated from operations on a per unit basis. We may be unable to complete successful, accretive growth projects or acquisitions for any of the following reasons, among others: •we fail to identify (or we are outbid for) attractive expansion or development projects or acquisition candidates that satisfy our economic and other criteria;•we cannot raise financing for such projects or acquisitions on economically acceptable terms;•we fail to secure adequate customer commitments to use the facilities to be developed, expanded or acquired; or•we cannot obtain governmental approvals or other rights, licenses or consents needed to complete such projects or acquisitions on time or on budget, if at all. The development and construction of gathering, processing, storage and transportation facilities involves numerous regulatory, environmental, safety, political and legal uncertainties beyond our control and may require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital. When we undertake these projects, they may not be completed on schedule, at the budgeted cost or at all. Moreover, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular growth project. For instance, if we build a new gathering system or transmission pipeline, the construction may occur over an extended period of time and we will not receive material increases in revenues until the project is placed in service. Accordingly, if we do pursue growth projects, we can provide no assurances that our efforts will provide a platform for additional growth for our company.The growth projects and acquisitions we complete may not perform as anticipated.Even if we complete acquisitions or growth projects that we believe will be strategic and accretive, such acquisitions and projects may nevertheless reduce our cash available for distribution due to the following factors, among others: •mistaken assumptions about capacity, revenues, synergies, costs (including operating and administrative, capital, debt and equity costs), customer demand, growth potential, assumed liabilities and other factors;•the failure to receive cash flows from a growth project or newly acquired asset due to delays in the commencement of operations for any reason;•unforeseen operational issues or the realization of liabilities that were not known to us at the time the acquisition or growth project was completed; •the inability to attract new customers or retain acquired customers to the extent assumed in connection with an acquisition or growth project; •the failure to successfully integrate growth projects or acquired assets or businesses into our operations and/or the loss of key employees; or •the impact of regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties that are beyond our control. In particular, we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production and/or demand in a region in which such growth does not materialize. As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough throughput to achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions.If we complete future growth projects or acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and you will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of these funds and other resources. If any growth projects or acquisitions we ultimately complete are not accretive to our cash available for distribution, our ability to make distributions may be reduced. 22Table of ContentsOur failure to successfully and timely integrate acquired companies and assets into our organization could adversely affect our results of operation.The success of the Crestwood Merger and our recent acquisitions (including our Arrow acquisition) will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits and synergies from combining (i) the businesses of Legacy Inergy and Legacy Crestwood and (ii) our company and our acquisition targets. If our combined organization is unable to achieve these objectives, or is not able to achieve these objectives on a timely basis, the anticipated benefits of the Crestwood Merger and our acquisitions may not be realized fully or at all. Additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the businesses. There can be no assurance that the elimination of certain duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the two businesses, will offset the incremental transaction-related costs over time. These integration difficulties could adversely affect the future results of the combined organization.We rely upon third-party assets to operate our facilities, and we could be negatively impacted by circumstances beyond our control that temporarily or permanently interrupt the operation of such third-party assets. Our operations depend on assets owned and controlled by third parties to operate effectively. For example, (i) certain of our “rich gas” gathering systems depend on interconnections and processing plants owned by third parties for us to move gas off our systems; (ii) our crude oil rail terminals depend on railroad companies to move our customers’ crude oil to market; and (iii) our natural gas storage facilities rely on third-party interconnections and pipelines to receive and deliver natural gas. Since we do not own or operate these third-party facilities, their continuing operation is outside of our control. If third-party facilities become unavailable or constrained, or other downstream facilities utilized to move our customers’ product to their end destination become unavailable, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and ability to make distributions.In addition, the rates charged by processing plants, pipelines and other facilities interconnected to our assets affect the utilization and value of our services. Significant changes in the rates charged by these third parties, or the rates charged by the third parties that own “downstream” assets required to move commodities to their final destinations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions.We depend on a limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenues. We generate a substantial portion of our gathering revenue from a limited number of oil and gas producers. Within our G&P segment, the top five producers (including Antero in the Marcellus Shale and Quicksilver in the Barnett Shale) accounted for approximately 37% of our total consolidated revenues in 2013. Within our NGL and crude services segment, seven producers on our Arrow system in the Bakken Shale accounted for approximately 33% of our total consolidated revenues in 2013. We expect our gathering revenues to remain leveraged to a limited number of producers in 2014 as we continue to build out our gathering systems, particularly in the Marcellus, Bakken and PRB Niobrara. Although we have obtained acreage dedications from many producer customers, most of our gathering contracts do not contain minimum volume requirements that would protect us against volumetric risks associated with lower-than-forecast volumes flowing through our systems. Our producer customers do not have contractual obligations to develop their properties in the areas covered by our acreage dedications, and they may determine that it is more attractive to direct their capital spending and resources to other areas. A decrease in producer capital spending and reserves in the areas covered by our acreage dedications with our significant gathering customers could result in reduced volumes serviced by us and a material decline in our revenue and cash flow.Our gathering and processing operations depend, in part, on drilling and production decisions of others. Our gathering and processing operations are dependent on the continued availability of natural gas and crude oil production. We have no control over the level of drilling activity in our areas of operation, the amount of reserves associated with wells connected to our systems, or the rate at which production from a well declines. Our gathering systems are connected to wells whose production will naturally decline over time, which means that our cash flows associated with these wells will decline over time. To maintain or increase throughput levels on our gathering systems and utilization rates at our natural gas processing plants, we must continually obtain new natural gas and crude oil supplies. Our ability to obtain additional sources of natural gas and crude oil primarily depends on the level of successful drilling activity near our systems, our ability to compete for volumes from successful new wells, and our ability to expand our system capacity as needed. If we are not able to obtain new supplies of natural gas and crude oil to replace the natural decline in volumes from existing wells, throughput on our gathering and processing facilities would decline, which could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and distributable cash flow.23Table of Contents Although we have acreage dedications from customers that include certain producing and non-producing oil and gas properties, our customers are not contractually required to develop the reserves and or properties they have dedicated to us. We have no control over producers or their drilling and production decisions in our areas of operations, which are affected by, among other things, (i) the availability and cost of capital; (ii) prevailing and projected commodity prices; (iii) demand for natural gas, NGLs and crude oil, (iv) levels of reserves and geological considerations, (v) governmental regulations, including the availability of drilling permits and the regulation of hydraulic fracturing; and (vi) the availability of drilling rigs and other development services. Fluctuations in energy prices can also greatly affect the development of oil and gas reserves. Drilling and production activity generally decreases as commodity prices decrease, and sustained declines in commodity prices could lead to a material decrease in such activity. Because of these factors, even if oil and gas reserves are known to exist in areas served by our assets, producers may choose not to develop those reserves. Reductions in exploration or production activity in our areas of operations could lead to reduced utilization of our systems. Estimates of oil and gas reserves depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate, and future volumes on our gathering systems may be less than anticipated.We normally do not obtain independent evaluations of natural gas or crude oil reserves connected to our gathering systems. We therefore do not have independent estimates of total reserves dedicated to our systems or the anticipated life of such reserves. It often takes producers longer periods of time to determine how to efficiently develop and produce hydrocarbons from unconventional shale plays than conventional basins, which can result in lower volumes becoming available as soon as expected in the shale plays in which we operate. If the total reserves or estimated life of the reserves connected to our gathering systems is less than anticipated and we are unable to secure additional sources of natural gas or crude oil, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.We have limited experience in the crude oil gathering business. We acquired the Arrow gathering system in November 2013, which serves customers producing crude oil and rich gas from the Bakken Shale formation. The Arrow system is the first crude oil and produced water gathering system that we have been required to build out and operate. Other operators of gathering systems in the Bakken have more experience in the construction, operation and maintenance of crude oil gathering systems than we do. Our lack of experience may hinder our ability to fully implement our business plan in a timely and cost-effective manner, which may adversely affect our results of operations and ability to make distributions.Our industry is highly competitive, and increased competitive pressure could adversely affect our ability to execute our growth strategy.We compete with other energy midstream enterprises, some of which are much larger and have significantly greater financial resources or operating experience, in our areas of operation. Our competitors may expand or construct infrastructure that creates additional competition for the services we provide to customers. Our ability to renew or replace existing contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flow could be adversely affected by the activities of our competitors and our customers. All of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make distributions.Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund operations, limit our ability to react to changes in our business or industry, and place us at a competitive disadvantage.We had approximately $1.9 billion of long-term debt outstanding as of December 31, 2013. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy debt obligations or to obtain alternative financing could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and business prospects.Our substantial debt could have important consequences to our unitholders. For example, it could:•increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;•limit our ability to fund future capital expenditures and working capital, to engage in development activities, or to otherwise realize the value of our assets and opportunities fully because of the need to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments of interest and principal on our debt or to comply with any restrictive covenants or terms of our debt;24Table of Contents•result in an event of default if we fail to satisfy debt obligations or fail to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness, which event of default could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable and could permit our lenders to foreclose on any of the collateral securing such debt;•require a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use cash flow to fund operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities;•increase our borrowings;•restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures;•limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or industry in which we operate, placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our peers who are less highly leveraged and who therefore may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploring; and•impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future.Realization of any of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Restrictions in our revolving credit facility could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions. We have a $1 billion revolving credit facility (expandable up to $1.25 billion) that matures in October 2018. Our revolving credit facility will be available to fund working capital and our growth projects, make acquisitions and for general partnership purposes. Our revolving credit facility contains various covenants and restrictive provisions that will limit our ability to, among other things: •incur additional debt;•make distributions on or redeem or repurchase units;•make certain investments and acquisitions; •incur or permit certain liens to exist; •enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates;•merge, consolidate or amalgamate with another company; and •transfer or otherwise dispose of assets. Furthermore, our revolving credit facility contains covenants requiring us to maintain certain financial ratios. For example, our revolving credit facility requires maintenance of a consolidated leverage ratio (as defined in our credit agreement) of not more than 5.00 to 1.00 and an interest coverage ratio (as defined in our credit agreement) of not less than 2.50 to 1.00. Borrowings under our revolving credit facility are secured by (i) pledges of the equity interests of, and guarantees by, substantially all of our existing and future restricted domestic subsidiaries, and (ii) liens on substantially all of our real property (outside of New York) and personal property. The provisions of our credit agreement may affect our ability to obtain future financing and pursue attractive business opportunities and our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions. In addition, a failure to comply with the provisions of our revolving credit facility could result in an event of default, which could enable our lenders, subject to the terms and conditions of our revolving credit facility, to declare any outstanding principal of that debt, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If the payment of any such debt is accelerated, our assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full, and the holders of our common units could experience a partial or total loss of their investment.A change of control could result in us facing substantial repayment obligations under our revolving credit facility.Our credit agreement contains provisions relating to change of control of our general partner and our partnership. If these provisions are triggered, our outstanding bank indebtedness may become due. In such an event, there is no assurance that we would be able to pay the indebtedness, in which case the lenders under our revolving credit facility would have the right to 25Table of Contentsforeclose on our assets, which would have a material adverse effect on us. There is no restriction on the ability of our general partner or its parent companies to enter into a transaction which would trigger the change of control provisions.Our ability to make cash distributions may be diminished, and our financial leverage could increase, if we are not able to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms.Historically, we have used cash flow from operations, borrowings under our revolving credit facility and issuances of debt and equity to fund our capital program, working capital needs and acquisitions. Our capital program may require additional financing above the level of cash generated by our operations to fund our growth. If our cash flow from operations decreases as a result of lower throughput volumes on our systems or otherwise, our ability to expend the capital necessary to expand our business or increase our future cash distributions may be limited. If our cash flow from operations is insufficient to satisfy our financing needs, we cannot be certain that additional financing will be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for future equity or debt offerings may be limited by our financial condition or general economic conditions at the time of any such financing or offering. Even if we are successful in obtaining the necessary funds, the terms of such financings could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Further, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage and issuing additional limited partner interests may result in significant unitholder dilution and would increase the aggregate amount of cash required to maintain the cash distribution rate which could materially decrease our ability to pay distributions. If additional capital resources are unavailable, we may curtail our activities or be forced to sell some of our assets on an untimely or unfavorable basis.Debt we incur in the future may limit our flexibility to obtain financing and to pursue other business opportunities. Our future level of debt could have important consequences to us, including the following:•our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all; •our funds available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to common unitholders will be reduced by that portion of our cash flow required to make interest payments on our debt; •we may be more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and•our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions may be limited.Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service any future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets or seeking additional equity capital. We may not be able to effect any of these actions on satisfactory terms or at all. Increases in interest rates could adversely impact our unit price, ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes, and ability to make payments on our debt obligations.Interest rates may increase in the future. As a result, interest rates on future credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. Therefore, changes in interest rates either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on our unit price and our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and to make payments on our debt obligations.The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our ability to operate.Our success is dependent upon the efforts of our senior management team, as well as on our ability to attract and retain both executives and employees for our field operations. Our senior executives have significant experience in the oil and gas industry and have developed strong relationships with a broad range of industry participants. The loss of any of these executives, or the loss of key field employees operating in competitive markets like the Bakken Shale and the Marcellus Shale, could prevent us from implementing our business strategy and could have a material adverse effect on our customer relationships, results of operations and ability to make distributions.26Table of ContentsWe operate in the PRB Niobrara through joint ventures that may limit our operational flexibility.Our operations in the PRB Niobrara are conducted through joint venture arrangements (including the Jackalope and PRBIC joint ventures), and we may enter additional joint ventures in the future. In a joint venture arrangement, we could have less operational flexibility, as actions must be taken in accordance with the applicable governing provisions of the joint venture. In certain cases, we:•could have limited ability to influence or control certain day to day activities affecting the operations;•could have limited control on the amount of capital expenditures that we are required to fund with respect to these operations;•could be dependent on third parties to fund their required share of capital expenditures;•may be subject to restrictions or limitations on our ability to sell or transfer our interests in the jointly owned assets; and•may be forced to offer rights of participation to other joint venture participants in certain areas of mutual interest.In addition, our joint venture participants may have obligations that are important to the success of the joint venture, such as the obligation to pay substantial carried costs pertaining to the joint venture and to pay their share of capital and other costs of the joint venture. The performance and ability of the third parties to satisfy their obligations under joint venture arrangements is outside of our control. If these parties do not satisfy their obligations, our business may be adversely affected. Our joint venture partners may be in a position to take actions contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives, and disputes between us and our joint venture partners may result in delays, litigation or operational impasses. The risks described above or the failure to continue our joint ventures or to resolve disagreements with our joint venture partners could adversely affect our ability to conduct business that is the subject of a joint venture, which could in turn negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations.We may not be able to renew or replace expiring contracts. Our primary exposure to market risk occurs at the time our existing contracts expire and are subject to renegotiation and renewal. As of December 31, 2013, the weighted average remaining term of (i) our existing portfolio of natural gas storage and transportation contracts is approximately four years, (ii) our existing portfolio of natural gas gathering contracts is approximately 11 years, and (iii) our existing portfolio of crude oil gathering contracts is approximately five years. The extension or replacement of existing contracts depends on a number of factors beyond our control, including: •the macroeconomic factors affecting natural gas, NGL and crude economics for our current and potential customers;•the level of existing and new competition to provide services to our markets;•the balance of supply and demand, on a short-term, seasonal and long-term basis, in our markets;•the extent to which the customers in our markets are willing to contract on a long-term basis; and•the effects of federal, state or local regulations on the contracting practices of our customers.Any failure to extend or replace a significant portion of our existing contracts, or extending or replacing them at unfavorable or lower rates, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions. The fees we charge to customers under our contracts may not escalate sufficiently to cover our cost increases, and those contracts may be suspended in some circumstances. Our costs may increase at a rate greater than the rate that the fees we charge to third parties increase pursuant to our contracts with them. In addition, some third parties’ obligations under their agreements with us may be permanently or temporarily reduced upon the occurrence of certain events, some of which are beyond our control, including force majeure events wherein the supply of natural gas or crude oil is curtailed or cut off. Force majeure events generally include, without limitation, revolutions, wars, acts of enemies, embargoes, import or export restrictions, strikes, lockouts, fires, storms, floods, acts of God, explosions, mechanical or physical failures of our equipment or facilities or those of third parties. If our escalation of fees is insufficient to cover increased costs or if any third party suspends or terminates its contracts with us, our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions could be materially adversely affected.27Table of ContentsOur operations are subject to extensive regulation, and regulatory measures adopted by regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local regulatory authorities. For example, because we transport natural gas in interstate commerce and we store natural gas that is transported in interstate commerce, our natural gas storage and transportation facilities are subject to comprehensive regulation by the FERC under the Natural Gas Act. Federal regulation under the Natural Gas Act extends to such matters as: •rates, operating terms and conditions of service;•the form of tariffs governing service;•the types of services we may offer to our customers; •the certification and construction of new, or the expansion of existing, facilities;•the acquisition, extension, disposition or abandonment of facilities; •contracts for service between storage and transportation providers and their customers; •creditworthiness and credit support requirements; •the maintenance of accounts and records;•relationships among affiliated companies involved in certain aspects of the natural gas business;•the initiation and discontinuation of services; and •various other matters. Natural gas companies may not charge rates that, upon review by FERC, are found to be unjust and unreasonable or unduly discriminatory. Existing interstate transportation and storage rates may be challenged by complaint and are subject to prospective change by FERC. Additionally, rate increases proposed by a regulated pipeline or storage provider may be challenged and such increases may ultimately be rejected by FERC. We currently hold authority from FERC to charge and collect (i) market-based rates for interstate storage services provided at the Stagecoach, Thomas Corners, Seneca Lake and Steuben facilities and (ii) negotiated rates for interstate transportation services provided by our North-South Facilities and our MARC I Pipeline. FERC's “market-based rate” policy allows regulated entities to charge rates different from, and in some cases, less than, those which would be permitted under traditional cost-of-service regulation. Among the sorts of changes in circumstances that could raise market power concerns would be an expansion of capacity, acquisitions or other changes in market dynamics. There can be no guarantee that we will be allowed to continue to operate under such rate structures for the remainder of those assets' operating lives. Any successful challenge against rates charged for our storage and transportation services, or our loss of market-based rate authority or negotiated rate authority, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions. Our market-based rate authority for our natural gas storage facilities may be subject to review and possible revocation if FERC determines that we have the ability to exercise market power in our market area. If we were to lose our ability to charge market-based rates, we would be required to file rates based on our cost of providing service, including a reasonable rate of return. Cost-of-service rates may be lower than our current market-based rates. There can be no assurance that FERC will continue to pursue its approach of pro-competitive policies as it considers matters such as pipeline rates and rules and policies that may affect rights of access to natural gas transportation capacity and transportation and storage facilities. Failure to comply with applicable regulations under the Natural Gas Act, the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978, the Pipeline Safety Act of 1968 and certain other laws, and with implementing regulations associated with these laws, could result in the imposition of administrative and criminal remedies and civil penalties of up to $1,000,000 per day, per violation.A change in the jurisdictional characterization of our gathering assets may result in increased regulation, which could cause our revenues to decline and operating expenses to increase.Our natural gas and crude oil gathering operations are generally exempt from the jurisdiction and regulation of the FERC, except for certain anti-market manipulation provisions. FERC regulation nonetheless affects our businesses and the markets for products derived from our gathering businesses. The FERC’s policies and practices across the range of its oil and gas regulatory activities, including, for example, its policies on open access transportation, rate making, capacity release and market center promotion, indirectly affect intrastate markets. In recent years, the FERC has pursued pro-competitive policies in its regulation of interstate oil and natural gas pipelines. However, we have no assurance that the FERC will continue this approach as it considers matters such as pipeline rates and rules and policies that may affect rights of access to oil and natural gas transportation capacity. In addition, the distinction between FERC-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services has regularly been the subject of substantial, on-going litigation. Consequently, the classification and regulation of some of our pipelines could change based on future determinations by the FERC, the courts or Congress. If 28Table of Contentsour gathering operations become subject to FERC jurisdiction, the result may adversely affect the rates we are able to charge and the services we currently provide, and may include the potential for a termination of certain gathering agreements.State and municipal regulations also impact our business. Common purchaser statutes generally require gatherers to gather or provide services without undue discrimination as to source of supply or producer; as a result, these statutes restrict our right to decide whose production we gather or transport. Federal law leaves any economic regulation of natural gas gathering to the states. The states in which we currently operate have adopted complaint-based regulation of gathering activities, which allows oil and gas producers and shippers to file complaints with state regulators in an effort to resolve access and rate grievances. Other state and municipal regulations may not directly regulate our gathering business, but may nonetheless affect the availability of natural gas for purchase, processing and sale, including state regulation of production rates and maximum daily production allowable from gas wells. While our gathering lines currently are subject to limited state regulation, there is a risk that state laws will be changed, which may give producers a stronger basis to challenge the rates, terms and conditions of its gathering lines. Our operations are subject to compliance with environmental and operational safety laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. Our operations are subject to stringent federal, regional, state and local laws and regulations governing health and safety aspects of our operations, the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. Such environmental laws and regulations impose numerous obligations that are applicable to our operations, including the acquisition of permits to conduct regulated activities, the incurrence of capital expenditures to comply with applicable legal requirements, the application of specific health and safety criteria addressing worker protections and the imposition of restrictions on the generation, handling, treatment, storage, disposal and transportation of materials and wastes. Failure to comply with such environmental laws and regulations can result in the assessment of substantial administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial liabilities and the issuance of injunctions restricting or prohibiting some or all of our activities. Certain environmental laws impose strict, joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where materials or wastes have been disposed or otherwise released. In the course of our operations, generated materials or wastes may have been spilled or released from properties owned or leased by us or on or under other locations where these materials or wastes have been taken for recycling or disposal. It is also possible that adoption of stricter environmental laws and regulations or more stringent interpretation of existing environmental laws and regulations in the future could result in additional costs or liabilities to us as well as the industry in general or otherwise adversely affect demand for our services and salt products. It is also possible that adoption of stricter environmental laws and regulations or more stringent interpretation of existing environmental laws and regulations in the future could result in additional costs or liabilities to us or our customers and also adversely affect demand for the natural gas, NGLs, crude oil or salt products. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could result in increased operating and capital costs and reduced demand for our services. In December 2009, the EPA determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases (GHGs) present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. Based on these findings, the EPA has begun adopting and implementing regulations to restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. The EPA has adopted two sets of rules regulating GHG emissions under the Clean Air Act, one of which requires a reduction in emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles and the other of which regulates emissions of GHGs from certain large stationary sources, effective January 2, 2011, which could require greenhouse emission controls for those sources. The EPA has also adopted rules requiring the reporting of GHG emissions from specified large GHG emission sources on an annual basis, beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring after January 1, 2010, as well as certain onshore oil and natural gas production, processing, transmission, storage and distribution facilities on an annual basis, beginning in 2012 for emissions occurring in 2011. In addition, the U.S. Congress has from time to time considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, and almost one-half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs primarily through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional GHG cap and trade programs. Most of these cap and trade programs work by requiring major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers of fuels, such as refineries and gas processing plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances. The number of allowances available for purchase is reduced each year in an effort to achieve the overall GHG emission reduction goal. 29Table of ContentsThe adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce emissions of GHGs could require us to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements. Any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, the oil and natural gas that is produced, which may decrease demand for our midstream services. Consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of GHGs could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may incur higher costs as a result of pipeline integrity management program testing and additional safety legislation.The DOT requires pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs for pipelines located where a leak or rupture could harm “high consequence areas.” The regulations require operators like us to:•perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity;•identify and characterize applicable threats to pipeline segments that could impact a high consequence area;•maintain processes for data collection, integration and analysis;•repair and remediate pipelines as necessary; and•implement preventive and mitigating actions.We estimate that the total future costs to complete the testing required by existing DOT regulations will not have a material impact to our results. This estimate does not include the costs, if any, for repair, remediation, preventative or mitigating actions that may be determined to be necessary as a result of the testing program itself.Moreover, the Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty and Job Creation Act of 2011 was enacted by Congress in December 2011 and signed into law by the President on January 3, 2012. In addition to reauthorizing federal pipeline safety programs through 2015, this legislation adopts additional safety requirements and reforms and increases penalties for safety violations. The PHMSA has also published an advanced notice of proposed rule making to solicit comments on the need for changes to its safety regulations, including whether to revise the integrity management requirements and add new regulations governing the safety of gathering lines. Such legislative and regulatory changes could have a material effect on our operations through more stringent and comprehensive safety regulations and higher penalties for the violation of those regulations.Our business involves many hazards and risks, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. Our operations are subject to many risks inherent in gathering, processing, storage and transportation segments of the energy midstream industry, such as:•damage to pipelines and plants, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by natural disasters and acts of terrorism;•subsidence of the geological structures where we store natural gas or NGLs, or storage cavern collapses;•operator error;•inadvertent damage from construction, farm and utility equipment;•leaks, migrations or losses of natural gas, NGLs or crude oil;•fires and explosions;•cyber intrusions; and•other hazards that could also result in personal injury, loss of life, pollution (including environmental pollution) or suspension of operations.These risks could result in substantial losses due to breaches of contractual commitments, personal injury and/or loss of life, damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage. These risks may also result in curtailment or suspension of our operations. A natural disaster or other hazard affecting the areas in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We are not fully insured against all risks inherent in our business. For example, we do not have any property insurance on any of our underground pipeline systems that would cover damage to the pipelines. We are also not insured against all environmental accidents that might occur, some of which may result in toxic tort claims. If a significant accident or event occurs for which we are not fully insured, it could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions. We may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies may substantially increase. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. Additionally, we may be unable to recover from prior owners of our assets, pursuant to our indemnification rights, for potential environmental liabilities. 30Table of ContentsAlthough we maintain insurance policies with insurers in such amounts and with such coverages and deductibles as we believe are reasonable and prudent, our insurance may not be adequate to protect us from all material expenses related to potential future claims for personal injury and property damage. We also share insurance coverage with Crestwood Equity, for which we reimburse Crestwood Equity pursuant to the terms of the omnibus agreement. To the extent Crestwood Equity experiences covered losses under the insurance policies, the limit of our coverage for potential losses may be decreased.We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities are located, which could disrupt our operations.We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities (particularly our gathering and process facilities) have been constructed, which subjects us to the possibility of more onerous terms or increased costs to obtain and maintain valid easements and rights-of-way. We obtain standard easement rights to construct and operate its pipelines on land owned by third parties, and our rights frequently revert back to the landowner after we stop using the easement for its specified purpose. Therefore, these easements exist for varying periods of time. Our loss of easement rights could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business, thereby resulting in a material reduction in our revenue, earnings and ability to make distributions.Risks Inherent in an Investment in UsWe may not have sufficient cash from operations following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses to enable us to pay quarterly distributions to our common unitholders. We may not have sufficient cash each quarter to continue payments consistent with the full amount of our initial quarterly distribution of $0.37 per unit, or $1.48 per unit per year. The amount of cash we can distribute on our common units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations and payments of fees and expenses. Before we pay any distributions on our common units, we will establish reserves and pay fees and expenses, including reimbursements to our general partner and its affiliates, including Crestwood Equity, for all expenses they incur and payments they make on our behalf. These costs will reduce the amount of cash available to pay distributions to our common unitholders. The amount of cash we can distribute on our common units will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: •the rates we charge for storage and transportation services and the amount of services our customers purchase from us, which will be affected by, among other things, the overall balance between the supply of and demand for natural gas, governmental regulation of our rates and services, and our ability to obtain permits for growth projects;•force majeure events that damage our or third-party pipelines, facilities, related equipment and surrounding properties;•prevailing economic and market conditions;•governmental regulation, including changes in governmental regulation in our industry; •changes in tax laws;•the level of competition from other midstream companies;•the level of our operating and maintenance and general administrative costs; •the level of capital expenditures we make; •our ability to make borrowings under our revolving credit facility; and •the cost of acquisitions. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: the level and timing of capital expenditures we make; the cost of acquisitions; our debt service requirements and other liabilities; fluctuations in our working capital needs; our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets; restrictions contained in our debt agreements; and the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner.Our partnership agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash, which could limit our ability to grow and make acquisitions. We expect that we will distribute all of our available cash to our common unitholders and will rely primarily upon external financing sources, including commercial bank borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. As a result, to the extent we are unable to finance growth externally, our cash distribution policy will significantly impair our ability to grow. 31Table of ContentsIn addition, because we distribute all of our available cash, our growth may not be as fast as that of businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent we issue additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement, or in our revolving credit facility, on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to the common units. The incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which, in turn, may impact the available cash that we have to distribute to our common unitholders.We may issue additional units without common unitholder approval, which would dilute existing common unitholder ownership interests. Our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional limited partner interests we may issue at any time without the approval of our existing common unitholders. The issuance of additional common units or other equity interests of equal or senior rank will have the following effects:•our existing common unitholders' proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; •the amount of cash available for distribution on each common unit may decrease; •the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; •the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding common unit may be diminished; and •the market price of the common units may decline.Holders of our common units have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its directors, which could reduce the price at which our common units will trade. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, our common unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management's decisions regarding our business. Our common unitholders will have no right on an annual or ongoing basis to elect our general partner or its board of directors. The board of directors of our general partner, including the independent directors, is chosen entirely by Crestwood Equity, as a result of it owning our general partner, and not by our common unitholders. Unlike publicly traded corporations, we will not conduct annual meetings of our common unitholders to elect directors or conduct other matters routinely conducted at annual meetings of stockholders of corporations. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price.Common unitholders may have liability to repay distributions and in certain circumstances may be personally liable for the obligations of the partnership. Under certain circumstances, common unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act (the "Delaware Act"), we may not make a distribution to our common unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. A purchaser of units who becomes a limited partner is liable for the obligations of the transferring limited partner to make contributions to the partnership that are known to the purchaser of units at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from the partnership agreement. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. It may be determined that the right, or the exercise of the right by the limited partners as a group, to (i) remove or replace our general partner, (ii) approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or (iii) take other action under our partnership agreement constitutes “participation in the control” of our business. A limited partner that participates in the control of our business within the meaning of the Delaware Act may be held personally liable for our obligations under the laws of Delaware to the same extent as our general partner. This liability would extend to persons who transact business with us under the reasonable belief that the limited partner is a general partner. Neither our partnership agreement nor the Delaware Act specifically provides for legal recourse against our general partner if a limited partner were to lose limited liability through any fault of our general partner. 32Table of ContentsThe amount of cash we have available for distribution to common unitholders depends primarily on our cash flow and not solely on profitability, which may prevent us from making cash distributions during periods when we record net income. The amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flow, including cash flow from reserves and working capital or other borrowings, and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may pay cash distributions during periods when we record net losses for financial accounting purposes and may not pay cash distributions during periods when we record net income.Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units. Our partnership agreement restricts unitholders' voting rights by providing that any units held by a person or group that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner and its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter.Reimbursements due to our general partner and its affiliates for services provided to us or on our behalf will reduce cash available for distribution to our common unitholders. The amount and timing of such reimbursements will be determined by our general partner. Prior to making any distribution on our common units, we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates, including Crestwood Equity, for all administrative costs and other expenses they incur and payments they make on our behalf pursuant to the omnibus agreement. Under the omnibus agreement, we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates for all expenses incurred on our behalf, including administrative costs, such as compensation expense for those persons who provide services necessary to run our business, and insurance expenses. As of December 31, 2013, we reimbursed our general partner and its affiliates approximately $21.9 million in fiscal year 2013 (including $16.9 million in reimbursements of direct personnel related expenses). Neither our partnership agreement nor the omnibus agreement limits the amount of expenses for which our general partner and its affiliates may be reimbursed. Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner will determine in good faith the expenses that are allocable to us. The reimbursement of expenses and payment of fees, if any, to our general partner and its affiliates will reduce the amount of available cash to pay cash distributions to our common unitholders. The credit and risk profile of our general partner and its owner, Crestwood Equity, could adversely affect our credit ratings and risk profile, which could increase our borrowing costs or hinder our ability to raise capital. The credit and business risk profiles of our general partner and Crestwood Equity may be factors considered in credit evaluations of us. This is because our general partner, which is owned by Crestwood Equity, controls our business activities, including our cash distribution policy and growth strategy. Any adverse change in Crestwood Equity's financial condition, including the degree of its financial leverage and its dependence on cash flow from us to service its debt, may adversely affect our credit ratings and risk profile. If we were to seek a credit rating in the future, our credit rating may be adversely affected by the leverage of our general partner or Crestwood Equity, as credit rating agencies such as Standard & Poor's Ratings Services and Moody's Investors Service may consider the leverage and credit profile of Crestwood Equity and its affiliates because of their ownership interest in and control of us. Any adverse effect on our credit rating would increase our cost of borrowing or hinder our ability to raise financing in the capital markets, which would impair our ability to grow our business and make distributions to common unitholders.Our general partner has a limited call right that may require unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of our outstanding units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price equal to the greater of (i) the average of the daily closing prices per limited partner interest of the class purchased for the 20 consecutive trading days immediately prior to the date three days before the date our general partner first mails notice of its election to purchase those limited partner interests, and (ii) the highest price paid by our general partner or any of its affiliates for any limited partner interests of the class purchased during the 90-day period preceding the date that the notice is mailed. As a result, our unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return or a negative return on their investment. Unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their common units. Our general partner is not obligated to obtain a fairness opinion regarding the value of the common units to be repurchased by it upon exercise of the limited call right. There 33Table of Contentsis no restriction in our partnership agreement that prevents our general partner from issuing additional common units and exercising its call right. If our general partner exercised its limited call right, the effect would be to take us private and, if the units were subsequently deregistered, we would no longer be subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act. As of December 31, 2013 Crestwood Equity and its affiliates own, directly or indirectly, an aggregate of approximately 4% of our common units. Crestwood Holdings and its affiliates may sell common units in the public or private markets, and such sales could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the common units.As of December 31, 2013, Crestwood Holdings and its affiliates beneficially held an aggregate of 28,995,823 common units. The sale of any or all of these units in the public or private markets could have an adverse impact on the price of the common units or on any trading market on which the common units are traded.Risks Inherent in Our Structure and Relationship with Crestwood EquityCrestwood Equity controls our general partner, which has sole responsibility for conducting our business and managing our operations. Our general partner and its affiliates, including Crestwood Equity, have conflicts of interest with us and limited duties, and they may favor their own interests to the detriment of us and our common unitholders. Crestwood Equity owns and controls our general partner and appoints all of the directors of our general partner. Although our general partner has a duty to manage our partnership in a manner it believes is in our best interests, the executive officers and directors of our general partner have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to Crestwood Equity. Therefore, conflicts of interest may arise between our general partner and its affiliates, including Crestwood Equity, on the one hand, and us and our common unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our common unitholders. Crestwood Equity and other affiliates of our general partner may compete with us and are not obligated to offer us the opportunity to acquire additional assets or businesses, which could limit our ability to grow and could adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner will be restricted from engaging in any business activities other than acting as our general partner and those activities incidental to its ownership of interests in us. Affiliates of our general partner, including Crestwood Equity, are not prohibited from engaging in other businesses or activities, including those that might be in direct competition with us. Crestwood Equity currently holds interests in, and may make investments in and purchases of, entities that acquire, own and operate crude oil, natural gas and NGL midstream assets. In addition, Crestwood Equity is entitled under the omnibus agreement to review and has the first option on any third-party acquisition opportunities presented to us or to Crestwood Equity and is under no obligation to make acquisition opportunities available to us. These investments and acquisitions may include entities or assets that we would have been interested in acquiring. Therefore, Crestwood Equity may compete with us for investment opportunities, and may own interests in entities that compete with us. Pursuant to the terms of our partnership agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, does not apply to our general partner or any of its affiliates, including its executive officers and directors and Crestwood Equity. Any such person or entity that becomes aware of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement or other matter that may be an opportunity for us will not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us. Any such person or entity will not be liable to us or to any limited partner for breach of any fiduciary duty or other duty by reason of the fact that such person or entity pursues or acquires such opportunity for itself, directs such opportunity to another person or entity or does not communicate such opportunity or information to us. This may create actual and potential conflicts of interest between us and affiliates of our general partner and result in less than favorable treatment of us and our common unitholders. Our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations. Our general partner intends to limit its liability under our contractual and other obligations so that the counterparties to such arrangements have recourse only against our assets and not against our general partner or its assets. Our general partner may therefore cause us to incur indebtedness or other obligations that are nonrecourse to our general partner. Our partnership agreement provides that any action taken by our general partner to limit its liability is not a breach of our general partner's duties, even if we could have obtained more favorable terms without the limitation on liability. In addition, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify our general partner to the extent that it incurs obligations on our behalf. Any such reimbursement or indemnification payments would reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our common unitholders. 34Table of ContentsOur partnership agreement restricts the remedies available to our common unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that restrict the remedies available to our common unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of duty under state law with respect to fiduciary duties. For example, our partnership agreement provides that: •whenever our general partner, the board of directors of our general partner or any committee thereof (including the conflicts committee) makes a determination or takes, or declines to take, any other action in their respective capacities, our general partner, the board of directors of our general partner or any committee thereof (including the conflicts committee), as applicable, is required to make such determination, or take or decline to take such other action, in good faith, and is not subject to any higher standard imposed by our partnership agreement, Delaware law or any other law, rule or regulation, or at equity; •a determination, other action or failure to act by our general partner, the board of directors of our general partner or any committee thereof (including the conflicts committee) is deemed to be in good faith unless our general partner, the board of directors of our general partner or any committee thereof believed such determination, other action or failure to act was not in the best interests of the partnership; •our general partner does not have any liability to us or our common unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as it acted in good faith; and •our general partner and its officers and directors are not be liable for monetary damages to us or our limited partners for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our general partner or those other persons acted in bad faith or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was unlawful. Whenever a conflict arises between our general partner or its affiliates, on the one hand, and us and our limited partners, on the other hand, the resolution or course of action in respect of such conflict of interest shall be permitted and deemed approved by all our limited partners and shall not constitute a breach of our partnership agreement, of any agreement contemplated thereby or of any duty, if the resolution or course of action in respect of such conflict of interest is (i) approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner, although our general partner is not obligated to seek such approval; or (ii) approved by the vote of a majority of the outstanding common units, excluding any common units owned by our general partner or its affiliates. In connection with a situation involving a transaction with an affiliate or a conflict of interest, any determination by our general partner must be made in good faith. If an affiliate transaction or the resolution of a conflict of interest is not approved by our common unitholders or the conflicts committee then it will be presumed that, in making its decision, taking any action or failing to act, the board of directors acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or the partnership, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption. Unlike many other master limited partnerships, which require at least two independent members of the conflicts committee, our partnership agreement provides that a conflicts committee may be comprised of one or more directors. If we establish a conflicts committee with only one director, your interests may not be as well served as if we had a conflicts committee comprised of at least two independent directors. A single member conflicts committee would not have the benefit of discussion with and input from other independent directors. Our partnership agreement limits our general partner's duties to holders of our common units. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that modify and reduce the standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state law with respect to fiduciary duties. For example, our partnership agreement permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner, or otherwise free of contractual or fiduciary duties to us and our common unitholders. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires and relieves it of any duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or our limited partners. Examples of decisions that our general partner may make in its individual capacity include: •how to allocate business opportunities among us and its affiliates; •whether to exercise its limited call right; •how to exercise its voting rights with respect to any common units it owns; •whether to exercise its registration rights; and•whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of us or amendment to the partnership agreement.35Table of ContentsBy purchasing a common unit, a common unitholder is treated as having consented to the provisions in the partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above. Crestwood Equity may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the quarterly distribution related to its IDRs, without the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner or the holders of our common units. This election could result in lower distributions to our common unitholders. Crestwood Equity has the right to reset, at a higher level, the quarterly distribution based on our cash distributions at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following a reset election, the quarterly distribution will be reset to an amount equal to the cash distribution amount per common unit for the quarter immediately preceding the reset election (which amount we refer to as the reset quarterly distribution). If Crestwood Equity elects to reset the quarterly distribution, it will be entitled to receive a number of newly issued common units. The number of common units to be issued to Crestwood Equity will equal the number of common units that would have entitled the holder to the quarterly cash distribution in the prior quarter equal to the distribution to Crestwood Equity on the IDRs in such prior quarter. It is possible that Crestwood Equity could exercise this reset election at a time when it is experiencing, or expects to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its IDRs and may, therefore, desire to be issued common units rather than retain the right to receive incentive distributions based on the quarterly distribution. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience a reduction in the amount of cash distributions that our common unitholders would have otherwise received had we not issued new common units to Crestwood Equity in connection with resetting the quarterly distribution. Even if holders of our common units are dissatisfied, they cannot currently remove our general partner without its consent. If our common unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they have limited ability to remove our general partner. The vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of all our outstanding limited partnership interests voting together as a class is required to remove our general partner. As of December 31, 2013, Crestwood Equity and its affiliates currently own, directly or indirectly, an aggregate of 4% of our common units.Our general partner interest, our IDRs and control of our general partner may be transferred without common unitholder consent.Our partnership agreement provides that, at any time, our general partner may transfer all or any of its general partner interest or common units to another person without the consent of our common unitholders. If the sole member of our general partner transfers its membership interest in our general partner to a third party, the third party would be in a position to replace the board of directors and executive officers of our general partner with its designees and thereby exert significant control over the decisions taken by the board of directors and executive officers of our general partner. This effectively permits a “change of control” without the vote or consent of the common unitholders. Our partnership agreement also provides that the holder of the IDRs may transfer those interests to a third party at any time without the consent of our common unitholders. Crestwood Equity indirectly owns all of our IDRs. If Crestwood Equity transfers its IDRs to a third party, Crestwood Equity may not have the same incentive to grow our partnership and increase quarterly distributions to common unitholders over time as it would if it had retained ownership of the IDRs.Tax Risks to Common UnitholdersOur tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or we were to become subject to material additional amounts of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then our cash available for distribution to unitholders would be substantially reduced.The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Despite the fact that we are organized as a limited partnership under Delaware law, we would be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes unless we satisfy a “qualifying income” requirement. Based upon our current operations, we believe we satisfy the qualifying income requirement. Failing to meet the qualifying income requirement or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity. If we were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a 36Table of Contentsmaximum of 35%, as well as any applicable state or local taxes. Distributions to our unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to our unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. At the state level, several states have been evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise, or other forms of taxation. Imposition of a similar tax on us in the jurisdictions in which we operate or in other jurisdictions to which we may expand could substantially reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders.The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis.The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial changes or differing interpretations at any time. For example, from time to time, members of Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships. Currently, one such legislative proposal would have eliminated the qualifying income exception upon which we rely on for our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will be reintroduced or will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws may be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible to meet the exception for certain publicly traded partnerships to be treated as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax purposes.If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders.We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, the costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by you and our general partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution.You will be required to pay taxes on your share of our income even if you do not receive cash distributions from us.You will be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on your share of our taxable income, whether or not you receive cash distributions from us. You may not receive cash distributions from us equal to your share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability which results from that income.Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected.If you sell your common units, you will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between your amount realized and your tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of your allocable share of our total net taxable income result in a reduction in your tax basis in your common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units you sell will, in effect, become taxable income to you if you sell such units at a price greater than your tax basis in those common units, even if the price you receive is less than your original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture of depreciation deductions. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder's share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if you sell your units, you may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash you receive from the sale.Tax-exempt entities, regulated investment companies and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them.Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, including employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as “IRAs”), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations exempt from federal income tax, including individual retirement accounts and other retirement plans, will be 37Table of Contentsunrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes imposed at the highest effective applicable tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file U. S. federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If you are a tax-exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, you should consult your tax advisor before investing in our common units.We will treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the specific common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our common units.Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to you. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from the sale of our common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to your tax returns.We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.We generally prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations. The U.S. Treasury Department has issued proposed Treasury Regulations that provide a safe harbor pursuant to which a publicly-traded partnership may use a similar monthly simplifying convention to allocate tax items among transferor and transferee unitholders. Nonetheless, the proposed regulations do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to successfully challenge our proration method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss, and deduction among our unitholders.A unitholder whose common units are the subject of a securities loan (e.g., a loan to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of common units) may be considered as having disposed of those common units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition.Because there are no specific rules governing the U.S. federal income tax consequences of loaning a partnership interest, a unitholder whose common units are the subject of a securities loan may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units. In that case, he may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those common units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those common units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller should modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their common units. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests within a twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes.We will be considered to have constructively terminated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange within a twelve-month period of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same interest will be counted only once. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders which could result in us filing two tax returns (and unitholders receiving two Schedule K-1s) for one calendar year. Our termination could also result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a calendar year, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in its taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but instead, we would be treated as a new partnership for federal income tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a termination occurred. Pursuant to an IRS relief procedure a publicly traded partnership that has technically terminated may request special relief which, if granted by the IRS, among other things, would permit the partnership to provide only a single Schedule K-1 to unitholders for the tax years in which the termination occurs.38Table of ContentsOur unitholders will likely be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in states where they do not live as a result of investing in our common units.In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes, estate, inheritance or intangible taxes and foreign taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property and in which they do not reside. We own property and conduct business in various parts of the United States. Unitholders may be required to file state and local income tax returns in many or all of the jurisdictions in which we do business or own property. Further, unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. It is our unitholders' responsibility to file all required U. S. federal, state, local and foreign tax returns.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.None.