risk factors that are discussed under Item 3.D - Risk Factors in this Annual Report or identified in the Company’s other public filings with the Canadian Securities Administrators at www.sedar.com or with the SEC at www.sec.gov/edgar.shtml. For all of the reasons set forth above, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Other than any obligation to disclose material information under applicable securities laws, the Company undertakes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements after the date hereof. Data relevant to estimated market sizes and penetration for Helix’s lead products under development are presented in this Annual Report. These data have been obtained from a variety of published resources including published scientific literature, websites and information generally available through publicized means. Helix attempts to source reference data from multiple sources whenever possible for confirmatory purposes. Although Helix believes the foregoing data is reliable, Helix has not independently verified the accuracy and completeness of this data. 6 GLOSSARY Adenocarcinoma: Cancer that originates in glandular tissue. AGW: Ano-genital warts. Anika Therapeutics: Anika Therapeutics, Inc. Biochip Technology: Helix’s proprietary heterodimer and in-licensed molecular sensing technology for the creation of biochips designed for use by biopharmaceutical research companies, institutions and organizations in the study of protein interactions for the purpose of discovering and developing biopharmaceuticals and diagnostics. BioVectra: BioVectra Inc., a cGMP manufacturer of active pharmaceutical ingredients, advanced intermediates, specialty biochemicals, enzymes and biomolecules. Biphasix™ Technology: A platform technology designed for dermal, mucosal, transdermal and transmucosal delivery of molecules. CBCA: Canada Business Corporations Act, R.S.C. 1985 c. C-44 as am. cGMP: Is an acronym for Current Good Manufacturing Practices, a term that is recognized worldwide for the control and management of manufacturing and quality control testing of foods and pharmaceutical products. CBL: Chesapeake Biological Laboratory. CIN: Cervical Intraepithelial Neoplasia. Standard CIN grading of increasing severity is CIN1, CIN2 or CIN3. CPL: Contract Pharmaceuticals Limited Niagara. CTA: Clinical Trial Application. Dermal: Pertaining to the region of skin to the epidermis, consisting of a dense bed of vascular connective tissue. Dermal administration refers to the delivery of substances or compounds into the dermal region. DOS47™: A new drug candidate under development at Helix that is intended to apply a novel approach to the destruction of cancer cells. EITF: Emerging Issues Task Force. Exchange Act: The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. FASB: Financial Accounting Standards Board. FDA: United States Food and Drug Administration. The regulatory agency that oversees the development, manufacture, sale and use of diagnostic and therapeutic medical products in the United States. Gastro-Intestinal Lavage: The irrigation or washing out of the stomach and intestinal tract. GLP: Good Laboratory Practice. GMP: Good Manufacturing Practice. Helsinn: Helsinn-Birex Pharmaceuticals Ltd., a subsidiary of Helsinn Healthcare SA, a Swiss company. 7 HPV: Human Papilloma Virus. One of the most common sexually transmitted infections, causing ano-genital warts as well as being linked to a variety of cancers. HRD: Health Registration Dossier, the application submitted to the appropriate European drug regulatory authority for marketing approval. Imunovir™: An immunomodulator of the potentiator type which has demonstrated an enhancing effect on the function and number of various cells of the immune system, particularly T lymphocytes. Imunovir™ is the trademark of Newport Pharmaceuticals Limited. IND: Investigational New Drug. KBI: KBI Biopharma Inc. Klean-Prep™: A product used for bowel lavage/evacuation, primarily as a pre-treatment for colon examination in colorectal cancer screening. See ITEM 4.B – Important Business Developments – International Licensing – Klean Prep™. L-DOS47: The Company’s lung cancer targeting, antibody-conjugated DOS47™. Lead candidate of the DOS47™ based cancer therapeutic which is currently in the pre-Phase I clinical trial stage. Lipid: Fats or fat-like substances characterized by being water-insoluble. Low-grade cervical lesions: For the purposes of this Annual Report this term refers to cervical abnormalities combining an LSIL finding on Pap smear and a CIN 1 or CIN 2 diagnosis on colposcopy. LSIL: Low-grade Squamous Intraepithelial Lesions. MPA: Medical Products Agency, Sweden’s drug regulatory authority. NDA: New Drug Application. NRC: National Research Council of Canada. Orthovisc®: A product that reduces joint inflammation and improves joint mobility providing relief from the osteoarthritis of the knee. Orthovisc is a registered trademark of Anika Therapeutics. Pap IIID: Mild to moderate dysplasia according to the Munich classification system of cervical cytopathology. PCT: Patent Cooperation Treaty. A multi-country treaty for the filing of patents. Pharmacokinetic: The action of drugs in the body over a period of time, including the processes of absorption, distribution, localization in tissues, biotransformation (metabolism) and excretion. Phase I clinical trials: Clinical trials used to assess the potential toxicity of a new drug, primarily involving healthy volunteers, under the regulations of the applicable jurisdiction. Phase II clinical trials: Clinical trials used to assess the effectiveness and most effective dosage of a new drug, under the regulations of the applicable jurisdiction. Phase III clinical trials: Late stage clinical trials used to assess a drug for efficacy and safety at several independent sites in a large number of patients, under the regulations of the applicable jurisdiction. STD: Sexually transmitted disease. 8 Therapeutic: A medical treatment or curative product for a disease. Topical Interferon Alpha-2b: A topical preparation that is intended to be self-applied to HPV-infected tissues, in order to deliver interferon-alpha intradermally. It is based on Helix’s proprietary Biphasix™ drug delivery technology and is currently in the Phase II clinical trial stage. TPD: Canadian Therapeutic Products Directorate, a division of Health Canada. The regulatory agency that oversees the development, manufacture, sale and use of diagnostic and therapeutic medical products in Canada. TSX: The Toronto Stock Exchange. Transdermal: Access to the systemic blood circulation via migratory passage through the multiple layers of skin. Transmucosal: Access to the systemic blood circulation via migratory passage through the multiple layers of mucosa. Vaccine: A suspension of living, attenuated or killed microorganisms or genetic material administered for the prevention or treatment of infectious or hereditary diseases. 9 PART I ITEM 1. IDENTITY OF DIRECTORS, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND ADVISORS Not Applicable. ITEM 2. OFFER STATISTICS AND EXPECTED TIMETABLE Not Applicable. ITEM 3. KEY INFORMATION 3.A. Selected Financial Data The selected financial data of the Company for the fiscal years ended July 31, 2009, 2008, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was extracted from the audited annual consolidated financial statements of the Company, of which the audited consolidated financial statements for the fiscal years ended July 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 are included in this Annual Report. The information contained in the selected financial data is for the fiscal years ended July 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Company’s consolidated financial statements and related notes included in ITEM 17. – Financial Statements, and should be read in conjunction with such financial statements and with the information appearing in ITEM 5. – Operating and Financial Review and Prospects. The selected financial data for the fiscal years ended July 31, 2006 and 2005 was extracted from the consolidated financial statements of the Company not included in this Annual Report. Except where otherwise indicated, all amounts are presented in accordance with Canadian generally accepted accounting principles (“Canadian GAAP”). Reference is made to Note 20 of the consolidated financial statements of the Company included herein for a discussion of the material measurement differences between Canadian GAAP and United States generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”) and their effect on the Company’s financial statements. Since inception, the Company has financed its operations from public and private sales of equity proceeds received upon the exercise of warrants and stock options, and, to a lesser extent, on interest income from funds available for investment, government grants, investment tax credits, and revenues from distribution, licensing and contract services. While the Company estimates it has sufficient capital and liquidity to finance current operations through the next twelve months, the Company’s long-term liquidity depends on its ability to access the capital markets, which depends substantially on the success of the Company’s ongoing research and development programs. See ITEM 3.D – Risk Factors. The Company has not declared any dividends since incorporation and does not anticipate that it will do so in the foreseeable future. 10 Selected Financial Data Under Canadian Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (CDN$ in thousands, except share and per share data) Year Ended July 31, 2009 Year Ended July 31, 2008 Year Ended July 31, 2007 Year Ended July 31, 2006 Year Ended July 31, 2005 Statement of Operations: Revenue Product Revenue $ 3,244 $ 2,952 $ 2,764 $ 3,012 $ 2,456 License Fees and Royalties 597 639 512 773 1,234 Research and Development Contracts - - 148 180 42 Total Revenues 3,841 3,591 3,424 3,965 3,732 Expenses Cost of Sales 1,516 1,239 1,139 1,341 1,190 Research and Development 10,322 5,064 4,116 3,368 2,983 Operating, General and Administration 3,917 3,948 3,570 2,609 2,511 Sales and marketing 969 809 848 1,113 1,069 Amortization of Intangible Assets 12 16 159 594 1,244 Amortization of Capital Assets 274 254 287 315 330 Stock-Based Compensation 1,023 44 47 1,710 1,470 Interest Income, Net (339 ) (645 ) (496 ) (270 ) (137 ) Foreign Exchange Loss (Gain) 133 (327 ) (9 ) 16 78 Impairment of Intangible Assets 98 - 1,332 - 428 Total Expenses 17,925 10,402 10,993 10,796 11,166 Loss Before Income Taxes (14,084 ) (6,811 ) (7,569 ) (6,831 ) (7,434 ) Income Taxes (18 ) (153 ) (105 ) (108 ) (191 ) Net Loss for the Period (14,102 ) (6,964 ) (7,674 ) (6,939 ) (7,625 ) Basic and Diluted Loss Per Share (0.27 ) (0.16 ) (0.22 ) (0.22 ) (0.28 ) Weighted Average Number of Shares Outstanding 52,001,636 42,469,362 35,615,335 31,409,495 26,959,055 Balance Sheet: Working Capital 15,296 19,166 11,468 10,900 6,688 Shareholders Equity 17,063 20,522 12,734 13,881 10,302 Capital Stock 81,576 71,964 57,350 51,944 43,570 Total Assets 19,319 21,666 14,273 15,469 11,450 11 Selected Financial Data Under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (CDN$ in thousands, except share and per share data) Year Ended July 31, 2009 Year Ended July 31, 2008 Year Ended July 31, 2007 Year Ended July 31, 2006 Year Ended July 31, 2005 Statement of Operations: Revenue Product Revenue $ 3,244 $ 2,952 $ 2,764 $ 3,012 $ 2,456 License Fees and Royalties 597 639 512 773 1,234 Research and Development Contracts - - 148 180 42 Total Revenues 3,841 3,591 3,424 3,965 3,732 Expenses Cost of Sales 1,516 1,239 1,139 1,341 1,190 Research and Development 10,322 5,064 4,360 3,566 3,118 Operating, General and Administration 3,917 3,948 3,570 2,609 2,511 Sales and marketing 969 809 848 1,113 1,069 Amortization of Intangible Assets 12 16 12 12 12 Amortization of Capital Assets 274 254 287 315 330 Stock-Based Compensation 1,023 44 47 1,710 - Interest Income, Net (339 ) (645 ) (496 ) (270 ) (137 ) Foreign Exchange Loss (Gain) 133 (327 ) (9 ) 16 78 Impairment of Intangible Assets 98 - - - - Total Expenses 17,925 10,402 9,758 10,412 8,171 Loss Before Income Taxes (14,084 ) (6,811 ) (6,334 ) (6,447 ) (4,439 ) Income Taxes (18 ) (153 ) 139 90 (56 ) Net Loss for the Period (14,102 ) (6,964 ) (6,195 ) (6,357 ) (4,495 ) Basic and Diluted Loss Per Share (0.27 ) (0.16 ) (0.17 ) (0.20 ) (0.17 ) Weighted Average Number of Shares Outstanding 52,001,636 42,469,362 35,615,335 31,409,495 26,959,055 Balance Sheet: Working Capital 15,296 19,166 11,468 10,900 6,688 Shareholders Equity 17,063 20,522 12,882 12,463 8,494 Capital Stock 81,576 71,964 57,350 51,944 43,570 Total Assets 19,319 21,666 14,421 14,051 9,642 12 3.A.3. Exchange Rates The following tables set forth the rate of exchange for the Canadian Dollar for the periods listed therein. For purposes of these tables, the rate of exchange means the noon rate reported by the Bank of Canada as a web service. The table sets forth the number of Canadian Dollars required under that formula to buy one U.S. Dollar. The average rate means the average of the exchange rates on the last day of each month during the period. The noon rate on October 20, 2009, as reported by the Bank of Canada for the purchase of one Canadian Dollar with U.S. Dollars was US$0.9524 (US$1.00 = CDN$1.050). Unless otherwise indicated, in this annual report on Form 20-F, all references herein are to Canadian Dollars. The table below sets out the average exchange rates for each of the following fiscal years: Canadian Dollars per U.S. Dollar One ($1.00) Average for the Period Years Ended 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 1.1758 1.0070 1.1258 1.1551 1.2418 The table below sets out the high and low exchange rates for each of the following months: Canadian Dollars per U.S. Dollar One ($1.00) Sep. ‘09 Aug. ‘09 Jul. ‘09 Jun. ‘09 May. ‘09 Apr. ‘09 Low 1.0649 1.0701 1.0790 1.0827 1.0872 1.1940 High 1.1048 1.1072 1.1655 1.1625 1.1872 1.2643 3.B. Capitalization and Indebtedness Not Applicable. 3.C. Reasons For The Offer And Use Of Proceeds Not Applicable. 3.D. Risk Factors In addition to the other information presented in this Annual Report, the following should be considered carefully in evaluating the Company and its business. This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements and information within the meaning of U.S. and Canadian securities laws that involve risks and uncertainties. The Company’s actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements and information. Factors that might cause such a difference include those discussed below and elsewhere in this Annual Report. 13 The Company has a history of losses and expects to continue to incur additional losses for the foreseeable future. Helix’s primary focus is on the research and development of pharmaceutical product candidates, which requires the expenditure of significant amounts of cash over a relatively long time period. The Company’s cash flows from its distribution and licensing activities do not, and are not expected to, provide sufficient income to fully fund the Company’s research and development expenditures. The Company’s total deficit as at July 31, 2009 was $72,794,000. There can be no assurance that the Company will ever record any earnings. Helix has additional financing requirements and requires access to capital, which may not be available, as a result of which there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to carry out its business plan and continue as a going concern. As stated above, the Company expects to incur losses for the foreseeable future. As of July 31, 2009 the Company’s working capital was $15,296,000. On September 8, 2009, the Company announced the completion of a private placement, issuing 6,625,000 units at $2.05 per unit, for approximate net proceeds of $11.7 million. After taking into consideration the Company’s anticipated revenue, planned research and development expenditures and assuming no material unanticipated expenses, the Company estimates that its working capital will be sufficient to fund operations through the next twelve months, which are planned to include the completion of two ongoing Phase II trials of Topical Interferon Alpha-2b, the filing of IND/CTA applications for the Company’s proposed L-DOS47 Phase I/II clinical studies, and the filing of an IND application for its proposed Topical Interferon Alpha-2b (cervical dysplasia indication) Phase II/IIII clinical trial. Assuming the Company receives the necessary regulatory approvals for its planned L-DOS47 Phase I/II studies and its planned Topical Interferon Alpha-2b Phase II/III trial, it will require additional funding in order to execute the respective clinical investigations. The Company also plans to conduct a confirmatory Phase III clinical trial of its Topical Interferon Alpha-2b in parallel with its planned Phase II/III trial for the cervical dysplasia indication. Execution of this Phase III clinical trial will also require funding beyond the Company’s current resources, and will be contingent on regulatory approval of a CTA application, the filing timing of which has not yet been established. There can be no assurance that the Company will obtain the requisite financing to conduct its planned future trials described above, or that the trials will be undertaken at all. The Company has no external sources of liquidity such as bank lines of credit. The Company will require future additional financing to carry out its business plan. The market for both debt and equity financings for companies such as Helix has always been challenging, and the global economic downturn and credit crisis have added further challenges. There can be no assurance that a financing, whether debt or equity, will be available on acceptable terms or at all. The failure to obtain financing on a timely basis may result in the Company’s having to reduce or delay one or more of its planned research, development and marketing programs and to reduce related overhead, any of which could impair the Company’s current and future value. It may also have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Any additional equity financing, if obtained, may result in significant dilution to the existing shareholders at the time of such financing. The Company may also seek additional funding from other sources, including technology licensing, co-development collaborations, and other strategic alliances, which, if obtained, may reduce the Company’s interest in its projects or products. There can be no assurance, however, that any such alternative sources of funding will be available. The Company has historically obtained, and expects to continue to obtain, its requisite additional financing primarily by way of sales of its equity, which may result in significant dilution to existing shareholders. The Company’s most recent equity sale was completed on September 8, 2009 by way of private placement, with the Company issuing 6,625,000 units at $2.05 per unit, for approximate net proceeds of $11.7 million. Each unit consisted of one common share and one share purchase warrant, with each share purchase warrant entitling the holder to purchase one additional common share at $2.87 until 5:00 pm Toronto time on September 7, 2012. A total of 6,625,000 common shares were issued on completion of the placement, and up to an additional 6,625,000 common shares are issuable on exercise of the share purchase warrants. Further equity financings will also result in dilution to existing shareholders, and such dilution could be significant. 14 Rapid technological change could render the Company’s technology non-competitive and obsolete. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are subject to rapid and substantial technological change. Developments by others may render the Company’s products and/or technologies non-competitive, and the Company may not be able to keep pace with technological developments. Competitors have developed technologies that could be the basis for competitive products. Some of these products have an entirely different approach or means of accomplishing the desired therapeutic effect than products being developed by the Company and may be more effective and less costly than the products developed by the Company. In addition, other forms of medical treatment may offer competition to the Company’s products. For a discussion of some of the Company’s current known competition in relation to its drug product development candidates, see ITEM 4.B – Important Business Developments –Research and Development Activities - L-DOS47 – Market and Competition and ITEM 4B. – Important Business Developments – Research and Development Activities - Topical Interferon Alpha-2b – Market and Competition. The Company’s products may not be accepted. If any products are successfully developed by the Company and approved by applicable regulatory authorities for marketing, such products may not achieve market acceptance. The product candidates that the Company is attempting to develop will compete with a number of drugs and therapies marketed and manufactured by pharmaceutical companies, as well as products currently under development by such companies and others. The degree of market acceptance of any products developed by the Company, if any, will depend on a number of factors, including the establishment and demonstration in the medical community of the clinical efficacy and safety of the Company’s products, and their potential advantage over alternative treatment methods. Physicians, patients and/or the medical community in general may not accept and or utilize any products that may be developed by the Company. Dilution through exercise of share options could adversely affect Helix’s shareholders. Because the success of Helix is highly dependent upon its employees, the Company has granted to some or all of its key employees, directors and consultants, options to purchase common shares as non-cash incentives. To the extent that significant numbers of such options may be granted and exercised, the interests of the other shareholders of the Company may be diluted. At July 31, 2009, there were 3,564,000 share purchase options outstanding with a weighted average exercise price of $2.00 and 3,400,000 warrants outstanding with a weighted average exercise price of $2.36. If all of these securities were exercised, an additional 6,964,000 common shares would become issued and outstanding. This represents an increase of 13.1% in the number of shares issued and outstanding as at July 31, 2009 and would result in significant dilution to current shareholders. The risks associated with penny stock classification could affect the marketability of the Company’s common shares and shareholders could find it difficult to sell their shares. Helix’s common shares are subject to “penny stock” rules as defined in Exchange Act Rule 3a51-1. The SEC adopted rules that regulate broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in penny stocks. Transaction costs associated with purchases and sales of penny stocks are likely to be higher than those for other securities. Penny stocks generally are equity securities with a price of less than US$4.00 (other than securities registered on certain national securities exchanges or quoted on the NASDAQ system, provided that current price and volume information with respect to transactions in such securities is provided by the exchange or system). The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document that provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction, and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. The bid and offer quotations, and the broker-dealer and salesperson compensation information, must be given to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting the transaction and must be given to the customer in writing before or with the customer’s confirmation. 15 In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from such rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for the Company’s common shares in the United States and shareholders may find it more difficult to sell their shares. Helix is dependent on key personnel and the loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect the Company. Helix’s ability to continue its development of potential products, and to develop a competitive edge in the marketplace, depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and maintain qualified key management personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense and the Company may not be able to attract and retain such personnel. Helix’s growth will depend, on the efforts of its senior management, particularly its Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Company’s board of directors (the “Board”), Donald H. Segal; President and Chief Operating Officer, John M. Docherty; Chief Scientific Officer, Heman Chao; and Chief Financial Officer, Photios (Frank) Michalargias. The Company has entered into employment agreements with each of these individuals. Such employment agreements have no fixed term. The Company may terminate an employment agreement without cause on payment of specified severance or the giving of required notice, or a combination of both. The employee may terminate his employment agreement for cause, or (i) on giving sixty (60) days’ notice, or (ii) within thirty (30) days of being informed by or on behalf of the Board that the employee is required to perform his services primarily at a location outside of the York Region or the Greater Metropolitan Toronto area, Province of Ontario, or (iii) within six (6) months following a change of control of the Company. In the case of termination by the employee under (ii) or (iii) of the foregoing sentence, the Company must pay the employee specified severance. If the Company loses the services of key personnel, it may be unable to replace them, and its business could be negatively affected. In addition, the Company does not carry key-man insurance on any individuals. U.S. investors may not be able to enforce their civil liabilities against the Company or its directors, controlling persons and officers. It may be difficult for U.S. investors to bring and enforce suits against Helix. Helix is a company amalgamated under the CBCA. A majority of the Company’s directors are residents of Canada, and all or substantial portions of their assets are located outside of the United States, predominately in Canada. As a result, it may be difficult for U.S. holders of the Company’s common shares to effect service of process on these persons within the United States or to realize in the United States upon judgments rendered against them. In addition, if a judgment is obtained in the U.S. courts based on civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against the Company or its directors or officers, it will be difficult to enforce the judgment in the Canadian courts against the Company and any of the Company's non−U.S. resident executive officers or directors. Accordingly, U.S. shareholders may be forced to bring actions against the Company and its respective directors and officers under Canadian law and in Canadian courts in order to enforce any claims that they may have against the Company or its directors and officers. Nevertheless, it may be difficult for U.S. shareholders to bring an original action in the Canadian courts to enforce liabilities based on the U.S. federal securities laws against the Company and any of the Company's non−U.S. resident executive officers or directors. As a “foreign private issuer”, Helix is exempt from certain sections of the Exchange Act which results in shareholders having less complete and timely data than if Helix were a domestic U.S. issuer. As a “foreign private issuer,” as defined under the U.S. securities laws, we are exempt from certain sections of the Exchange Act. In particular, we are exempt from Section 14 proxy rules which are applicable to domestic U.S. issuers. The submission of proxy and annual meeting of shareholder information (prepared to Canadian standards) on Form 6-K has typically been more limited than the submissions required of U.S. issuers and results in shareholders having less complete and timely data, including, among others, with respect to disclosure of: (i) personal and corporate relationships and age of directors and officers; (ii) material legal proceedings involving the Company, affiliates of the Company, and directors, officers, promoters and control persons; (iii) the identity of principal shareholders and certain significant employees; (iv) related party transactions; (v) audit fees and change of auditors; (vi) voting policies and procedures; (vii) executive compensation; and (viii) composition of the compensation committee. In addition, due to the Company’s status as a foreign private issuer, the officers, directors 16 and principal shareholders of the Company are exempt from the short-swing insider disclosure and profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act. Therefore, these officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from short-swing profits which apply to insiders of U.S. issuers. The foregoing exemption results in shareholders having less data in this regard than is available with respect to U.S. issuers. The price of the Company’s shares is volatile. The price of the Company’s shares, as well as market prices for securities of biopharmaceutical and drug delivery companies generally have historically been highly volatile, and have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. For the last two fiscal years, the price of our shares has ranged from a low of $1.15 to a high of $2.27 on The Toronto Stock Exchange. Since listing on the OTCQX on June 23, 2009, to the end of our last fiscal year on July 31, 2009, the price of our shares has ranged from a low of US$1.22 to a high of US$1.97 on the OTCQX. Future announcements concerning the Company, its competitors or other biopharmaceutical companies, including the results of testing and limited human clinical studies, technological innovations or new therapeutic products, governmental regulation, developments in patent or other proprietary rights, litigation or public concern as to the safety of products developed by the Company or others and general market conditions may have a significant effect on the market price of the common shares of the Company. Indemnification obligations to our directors and senior management may adversely affect our finances. We have entered into agreements pursuant to which we will indemnify our directors and senior management in respect of certain claims made against them while acting in their capacity as such. If we are called upon to perform our indemnity obligations, our finances will be adversely affected. The Company is not aware of any matters pending or under consideration that may result in indemnification payments to any of its present or former directors or senior management. If the Company is characterized as a passive foreign investment company, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences. As more fully described below in ITEM 10.E – Taxation – United States Federal Income Tax Considerations –Passive Foreign Investment Company Status, if for any taxable year our passive income, or the value of our assets that produce (or are held for the production of) passive income, exceed specified levels, we may be characterized as a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to our U.S. shareholders, including having a gain on the disposition of our common shares being treated as ordinary income and any resulting U.S. federal income tax being increased by an interest charge. Rules similar to those applicable to dispositions generally will apply to certain “excess distributions” in respect of our common shares. We believe we were not a PFIC for the year ending July 31, 2009 and do not expect to be classified as a PFIC for the taxable year ending July 31, 2010. However, PFIC status is determined as of the end of the taxable year and is dependent on a number of factors, including the value of our passive assets, the amount and type of our gross income, and our market capitalization. Therefore, there can be no assurance that we will not become a PFIC for the taxable year ending July 31, 2010 or in any future taxable year. Additionally, there are no assurances that the United States Internal Revenue Service will agree with our conclusion. U.S. shareholders should consult with their own U.S. tax advisors with respect to the U.S. tax consequences of investing in our common shares. The Company is conducting early stage research and development initiatives for products under development which may never generate revenue. The Company is conducting early stage research and development initiatives, and is currently in the process of developing new products that will require further time consuming and costly research and development. It will be a number of years, if ever, before these products begin to generate revenues. The Company’s developments may never be successful in this regard. The success of the Company will in part depend on its ability to assess the future market potential for its products, the protection of such products, obtaining regulatory approvals, and the quality of its research and development. To achieve sustained profitability, the Company must, alone or with others, successfully develop, protect, obtain regulatory approvals for, and commercialize its product candidates. In addition, to the extent 17 the Company relies upon others for research, development, manufacturing, regulatory, and commercialization activities, the Company’s ability to achieve profitability will be dependent upon the success of such outside parties. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, either or both of L-DOS47 or Topical Interferon Alpha-2b, the Company’s current primary product candidates which are currently in the pre-Phase I/II clinical trial stage and Phase II clinical trial phase, respectively, may never be successfully developed or commercialized. The Company lacks the financing, expertise, infrastructure and other resources necessary to singularly support a new drug product from clinical development through to marketing. Helix’s current objective for the commercialization of L-DOS47 is to enter into a strategic alliance with an appropriate pharmaceutical partner at some point in the future, after first generating value-adding clinical findings demonstrating the safety and efficacy of L-DOS47 in patients. There can be no assurance, however, that L-DOS47 will enter the clinical trial stage, that any such findings will be generated, or that any such strategic alliance will be achieved, or if achieved, that it will result in revenue to the Company. The commercialization of Topical Interferon Alpha-2b is subject to an option granted to Schering-Plough to obtain an exclusive worldwide license to use the Company’s Biphasix™ technology in pharmaceutical products containing interferon-alpha. See ITEM 4.B Important Business Developments - Topical Interferon Alpha-2b. There can be no assurance that Schering-Plough will exercise its option or if it does exercise its option, that any license fees or royalties will be received by the Company, other than the initial license fee due on exercise of the option. If Schering-Plough does not exercise its option, then Helix’s objective with respect to the commercialization of Topical Interferon Alpha-2b would be to enter into a strategic alliance with another appropriate pharmaceutical partner for the commercialization of the drug product. However, there can be no assurance that any such strategic alliance will be achieved, or if achieved, that it will result in revenue to the Company. The scientific research and development activities of Helix involve substantial risks and uncertainties including factors beyond its control which could prevent the Company’s products from becoming commercially viable. Medical and pharmaceutical research and development is a speculative venture involving substantial risks. It is uncertain that the expenditures to be made by the Company in connection with its research projects will result in any significant or commercial product developments. In addition, factors beyond the control of the Company may affect the commercial viability of any products developed or discovered. These factors include, but are not limited to: · unexpected toxicities or lack of efficacy of prospective products that become apparent during the course of research or development that makes them unattractive or unsuitable for human use; · preliminary results as seen in animal testing that are not substantiated in human clinical trials; · other negative findings or factors that may become apparent during the course of research or development which may result in the discontinuation of the research or development projects; · inability to produce products in a commercially viable format, including but not limited to inability to produce a product having adequate shelf-life stability properties to support commercial storage and distribution of the product; · unforeseen prohibitive commercial production costs which may result in the Company’s inability to successfully compete in the marketplace; · the effect of competition; and · a variety of statutes and regulations which govern the manufacture and sale of human therapeutic products. These laws require the approval of manufacturing facilities, including adherence to “good manufacturing practices” during production and storage, the controlled research and testing of products, governmental review and approval of submissions requiring manufacturing, preclinical and clinical data to establish the safety and efficacy of the product for each use sought in order to obtain marketing approval, and the control of marketing activities, including advertising and labeling. The products currently under development by the Company will require significant development, clinical testing and investment of significant funds prior to their commercialization. The process of obtaining required approvals (such as, but not limited to, the approval of the FDA, TPD, and comparable agencies in Europe), can be costly and time- 18 consuming. Future products may never be successfully developed, prove safe and effective in clinical trials, receive applicable regulatory approvals, or have sufficient commercial properties, such as an acceptable shelf-life, to make them commercially viable. Further formulation work may be required to extend the shelf-life of L-DOS47 and Topical Interferon Alpha-2b for commercial purposes, the outcome of which is not certain and which may prevent either or both products from being commercialized. Potential investors should be aware of the risks, problems, delays, expenses and difficulties which may be encountered by the Company in view of the extensive regulatory environment which controls its business. The timing of the Company’s internal goals may change dramatically due to delays, failures, additional data required by regulators and uncertainty in the regulatory approval process. The Company sets internal goals for and makes public statements regarding its expected timing of meeting the objectives material to its success, including the filing of an IND and CTA for each of L-DOS47 and Topical Interferon Alpha-2b, commencement and completion of clinical trials and anticipated regulatory approvals. The actual timing of these forward-looking events can vary dramatically due to factors such as delays or failure in pre-clinical program activities, including without limitation, scaling-up the Company’s drug product candidates, delays or failures in clinical trials, the need to develop additional data required by regulators as a condition of approval, the uncertainties inherent in the regulatory approval process and delays in achieving manufacturing or marketing arrangements necessary to commercialize Helix’s product candidates. The Company has previously experienced a number of delays in its expected timing of various activities for both L-DOS47 and Topical Interferon Alpha-2b, including without limitation, delays in completing manufacturing scale-up activities due to third party scheduling and technical issues, and slower than expected patient recruitment rates for the Company’s ongoing Phase II Topical Interferon Alpha-2b clinical studies in Europe. Some of these delays have in turn caused delays in the Company’s expected timing of filing an IND/CTA for its planned U.S. Phase I and Polish Phase I/II clinical trials of L-DOS47, and for its planned Phase II/III clinical trials in the United States and Europe, respectively, of Topical Interferon Alpha-2b in patients with HPV-positive low-grade cervical lesions. It is possible that these or other types of delays in completing pre-IND/CTA filing activities will again delay the Company’s planned IND/CTA filings, which may not be made within the Company’s current anticipated timelines or at all. Failure to meet such timelines could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, it is possible that the planned future IND or CTA filings will never be made in respect of either L-DOS47 or Topical Interferon Alpha-2b or any other products the Company attempts to develop. The marketability of the Company’s products may be affected by delays and the inability to obtain necessary approvals, and following any market approval, the Company’s products will be subject to ongoing regulatory review and requirements which may continue to affect their marketability. The research, development, manufacture and marketing of pharmaceutical products are subject to regulation by the U.S. FDA and Canadian TPD, and comparable regulatory authorities in other countries. These national agencies and other federal, state, provincial and local entities regulate the testing, manufacture, safety and promotion of the Company’s products. We must receive applicable regulatory approval of a product candidate before it can be commercialized in any particular jurisdiction. The research, development, testing and manufacturing of any product candidate we develop independently or in collaboration with third parties, as well as the distribution, marketing, promotion, advertising, and record keeping of such product candidate, are regulated by numerous federal, state, provincial and local governmental authorities, principally the FDA in the United States, and other similar agencies in other countries. The approval procedures in the United States vary depending on such factors as the novelty of the drug and its intended use and also vary among countries. Changes in regulatory approval policies during the development period, changes in or the enactment of additional statutes or regulations or changes in regulatory review for each submitted product application may cause delays in the approval or rejection of an application. The FDA has substantial discretion in the approval process and may refuse to accept any application, may put our IND submissions for L-DOS47 or Topical Interferon Alpha-2b, or both, on hold for an indeterminate amount of time, or may decide that our data is insufficient for approval and require additional preclinical, clinical or other studies. The development and regulatory approval process in each jurisdiction takes many years, requires the expenditure of substantial resources, is uncertain and subject to delays. In addition, approval by a regulatory authority of one country does not ensure the approval by regulatory authorities of other countries. Failure to obtain regulatory approval, any delay or setback in obtaining regulatory approval, or any limitation on drug use required as a condition of approval could: 19 · adversely affect our ability to market any drugs we develop independently or with collaborators; · adversely affect our ability to negotiate collaboration or distribution agreements or continue current agreements with certain collaborators or distributors, including our collaborator with respect to Topical Interferon Alpha-2b, who may determine not to provide further quantities of interferon alpha-2b beyond the quantity currently committed, or who may determine not to exercise its option, either of which would adversely affect our further development of Topical Interferon Alpha-2b; · impose additional costs and diminish any competitive advantages that we may attain; or · adversely affect our ability to generate product sales and/or royalties based on these sales. Even if we obtain marketing approval in a particular jurisdiction, there may be limits on the approval and our products will be subject to ongoing regulatory review and regulatory requirements in that jurisdiction. If we and/or any prospective marketing partners fail to comply with these requirements, marketing approval and sales of any approved commercial products could be suspended, and fines and other judicial sanctions, including product seizures, injunction actions and criminal prosecutions could be imposed. Any regulatory approval subject to limitations on the uses for which the product may be marketed or to conditions of approval, could affect the marketability of the product. In addition, the terms of approval may contain requirements for costly post-market follow-up studies or post-market surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product, which could reduce our revenues, increase our expenses or render the approved product not commercially viable. Additional regulatory considerations in Canada and other countries may affect the price of drugs sold and delay necessary approvals of the Company’s drugs. Problems could arise which could delay or prevent the commercialization of the Company’s products currently under development, and the TPD, FDA and other foreign regulatory agencies could be unsatisfied with the results of clinical trials and fail to approve the marketing of such products. Certain provincial regulatory authorities in Canada have the ability to determine whether the cost of a drug sold within such province will be reimbursed by a provincial government health plan by listing drugs on formularies. These provincial formularies may affect the prices of drugs sold within provinces and the volume of drugs sold within provinces. In addition to the regulatory approval process, pharmaceutical companies are subject to regulations under provincial, state and federal law, including requirements regarding occupational safety, laboratory practices, environmental protection and hazardous substance control, and may be subject to other present and future local, provincial, state, federal and foreign regulations, including possible future regulations of the pharmaceutical industry. The Company cannot predict the time required for regulatory approval, or the extent of clinical testing and documentation that is required by regulatory authorities. Any delays in obtaining, or failure to obtain regulatory approvals in Canada, the United States, Europe or other foreign countries would significantly delay the development of the Company’s markets and the receipt of revenues from the sale of its products. The Company must demonstrate the safety and efficacy of its products during the clinical trials at all stages of development in order to obtain regulatory approval for the commercial sale of such products. The Company must demonstrate through pre-clinical studies and clinical trials that its products being developed, including its L-DOS47 and Topical Interferon Alpha-2b, are safe and efficacious before the Company can obtain regulatory approval for the commercial sale of such products. The results from preclinical studies and clinical trials may not be totally predictive of results obtained in later clinical trials. The clinical trials of the Company or those of the Company’s collaborators may not demonstrate safety and efficacy, necessary to achieve regulatory approvals or may not result in marketable products. A number of companies in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after achieving promising results in earlier trials and pre-clinical studies. The timing and success of clinical trials depend on various factors, including: · sufficient patient enrollment which may be affected by the incidence of the disease studied, the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for a patient to participate in the study and the rate of patient drop-out. Patient enrollment for the Company’s ongoing Phase II trial of Topical Interferon Alpha-2b in patients with AGW is on track for completion by or around the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2010 as previously forecasted. Patient enrollment for the Company’s ongoing Phase II pharmacokinetic study of Topical Interferon Alpha-2b in patients with cervical dysplasia is progressing slower than originally expected, based on which the Company has revised the expected study timeline. Helix now expects it will take until the end of its third quarter of fiscal 2010 for the minimum planned number of patients (12 patients) to complete the study, and up to the end of its first quarter of fiscal 2011 for the maximum currently planned number of patients (28 patients) to do so. 20 · regulatory agency policies regarding requirements for approval of a drug; · our capacity to produce or have produced clinical trial material in sufficient quantities and of sufficient quality to meet the schedule for our planned clinical trials; and · performance by third parties, such as clinical research organizations, on whom we rely to support our clinical trials. A failure of one or more of our clinical trials can occur at any stage of testing. Failure to complete clinical trials successfully and to obtain successful results on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Helix has direct competition from companies and universities which may render its technology and products obsolete or non-competitive. Technological competition from pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies and universities is intense and is expected to increase. Many competitors and potential competitors of the Company have substantially greater product development capabilities and financial, scientific, marketing and human resources than the Company. Other companies may succeed in developing products earlier than the Company, obtaining regulatory approvals for such products more rapidly than the Company, or in developing products that are more effective than those proposed to be developed by the Company. Research and development by others may render the Company’s technology or products obsolete or non-competitive or result in treatments or cures superior to any therapy developed by the Company. Any therapy that is successfully developed by the Company may not be preferred to any existing or newly developed technologies. The Company is dependent on third-parties and the failure of a third party to perform, or any delay by a third party in performing its obligations, may adversely affect the Company. The Company is dependent on third parties to varying degrees in virtually all aspects of its business. With respect to L-DOS47 research and development, such third parties are relied upon for, among other things, toxicology studies, clinical trial assays, manufacturing drug substance and bulk drug product, vialing bulk drug product for clinical studies, and quality control testing of drug substance, bulk drug product and vialed drug product. With respect to Topical Interferon Alpha-2b research and development, third parties are relied upon for, among other things, manufacturing of product for clinical trials, the supply of active drug substance, and conducting ongoing clinical trials. The performance and interdependence of these third party service providers, including without limitation, contract manufacturing organizations, contract research organizations, clinical trial consultants, collaborative research consultants, and regulatory affairs advisors, can critically affect the Company’s performance and the achievement of its milestones. Critical supplies may not be available on acceptable terms or at all, service providers may not perform, or continue to perform, as needed, or be available to provide the required services on acceptable terms or at all. Any lack of or interruption in supplies of raw materials, and any change in service providers or any inability to secure new service providers, or interruption in the provision of such services, would have an adverse impact on the development and commercialization of the Company’s products. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, in the case of L-DOS47, the Company has reported that it previously experienced challenges in successfully producing GMP engineering batches, including third party scheduling and technical issues, resulting in delays in the L-DOS47 development program. Furthermore, following successful engineering batch production, the Company has experienced delays in manufacturing its initial clinical batch of L-DOS47 again associated with third party scheduling and technical issues, which has caused it to revise its expected date of filing its planned U.S. Phase I and Polish Phase I/II regulatory dossiers to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. 21 In the case of Topical Interferon Alpha-2b, the Company is currently dependent on Schering-Plough for its supply of interferon alpha-2b. The Company has granted Schering-Plough the option to obtain an exclusive worldwide license to use the Company’s Biphasix™ technology in pharmaceutical products containing interferon-alpha (see ITEM 4.B Important Business Developments). Topical Interferon Alpha-2b incorporates the Company’s Biphasix™ technology with interferon alpha-2b. The Company currently expects that in order to complete its development program for Topical Interferon Alpha-2b, it will require a further supply of interferon alpha-2b from Schering-Plough beyond the amount originally agreed to. The Company will also require further supplies of interferon alpha-2b in order to be able to commercialize Topical Interferon Alpha-2b, should Schering-Plough determine not to exercise its option. There can be no assurance that Schering-Plough will supply the Company with any such additional interferon alpha-2b on acceptable terms or at all, or that the Company would be able to secure alternative supplies in a timely manner, on acceptable terms or at all. Even if alternative supplies can be arranged, there may be challenges from a regulatory perspective demonstrating adequately to the authorities that a new supplier’s raw material is considered interchangeable with Schering-Plough’s interferon alpha-2b. Accordingly, lack of continued supply from Schering-Plough of the Company’s requirements of interferon alpha-2b, or the non-exercise by Schering-Plough of its option, could adversely affect the Company’s Topical Interferon Alpha-2b program, and such effect could have a materially adverse effect on the Company’s completion of development or commercialization of Topical Interferon Alpha-2b. In addition, the Company may grant to its collaborative research and development partners rights to license and commercialize any products developed, and in fact the Company has already granted such rights in the case of Topical Interferon Alpha-2b. Such rights would limit (and do limit, in the case of the Topical Interferon Alpha-2b) the Company’s flexibility in considering alternatives for supply of critical materials and therefore, commercialization of such products. Any failure of such arrangement would have a negative impact on the Company. With respect to L-DOS47, the Company is currently dependent on, in addition to third-party suppliers, manufacturers and consultants, the NRC and its license to the Company of a lung cancer antibody in order to develop and commercialize L-DOS47. Early termination of the license would have a material adverse effect on the further development of L-DOS47 and may require the cessation of such development, which would have a material adverse effect on the Company. A substantial portion of the Company’s licensing revenues is dependent on royalties collected from a single licensee, and a substantial portion of the Company’s product distribution revenues is dependent on sales of product purchased from a single supplier. The termination of these license or supply arrangements, or non-performance by the other parties thereto, would negatively impact the Company’s revenues. The Company relies on third-party manufacturers of its products and the inability to maintain reliable manufacturers may prevent the Company from meeting its business objectives. The Company relies substantially on its ability to secure third-party manufacture of its products for its success. We have relied and will continue to rely heavily on contract manufacturers for the production of product required for our clinical studies, product formulation work, scaling-up experiments and commercial production. We may not be able to obtain new, or keep our current, contract manufacturers to provide these services. Even if we do, contract manufacturers may not be reliable in meeting our requirements for cost, quality, quantity or schedule, or the requirements of any regulatory agencies. As a result, we may not be able to manufacture products in quantities or qualities that would enable us to meet our business objectives. Any such failure would materially adversely affect our business. For instance, in the case of L-DOS47, the Company has reported that it previously experienced challenges in successfully producing GMP engineering batches, including third party scheduling and technical issues, resulting in delays in the L-DOS47 development program. Furthermore, following successful engineering batch production, the Company has experienced delays in manufacturing its initial GMP clinical batch of L-DOS47 again associated with third party scheduling and technical issues, which has caused it to revise its expected date of filing its planned U.S. Phase I and Polish Phase I/II regulatory to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. If we are successful in developing the markets for our products, we would have to arrange for their scaled-up manufacture. There can be no assurance that we will, on a timely basis, be able to make the transition from manufacturing clinical trial quantities to commercial production quantities successfully or be able to arrange for scaled-up commercial contract manufacturing. Any potential difficulties experienced by us in manufacturing scale-up, 22 including recalls or safety alerts, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We have limited sales, marketing, and distribution experience. We have limited experience in the sales, marketing, and distribution of pharmaceutical and medical device products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to establish sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities or make arrangements with our collaborators, licensees, or others to perform such activities or that such efforts will be successful. If we decide to market any of our products directly, we must either acquire or internally develop a marketing and sales force with technical expertise and with supporting distribution capabilities. The acquisition or development of a sales and distribution infrastructure would require substantial resources, which may divert the attention of our management and key personnel, and have a negative impact on our product development efforts. If we contract with third parties for the sales and marketing of our products, our revenues will be dependent on the efforts of these third parties, whose efforts may not be successful. If we fail to establish successful marketing and sales capabilities or to make arrangements with third parties, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. If any of our product candidates are approved for sale to the public, we may be unable to sell our products profitably because of the uncertainty of pharmaceutical pricing, reimbursement and healthcare reform measures. The availability of reimbursement by governmental and other third-party payers affects the market for any pharmaceutical product. These third-party payers continually attempt to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare. There have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system and further proposals are likely. Significant uncertainty exists with respect to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products. In addition, third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price and cost effectiveness of medical products and services. We might not be able to sell our products profitably or recoup the value of our investment in product development if reimbursement is unavailable or limited in scope. Licenses or rights to use processes, technology, products or information may be terminated or expire, and the Company may be unable to obtain such licenses or rights on favorable terms. The manufacture and sale of any products developed by the Company will involve the use of processes, technology, products, or information, the rights to certain of which are owned by others. Although the Company has obtained licenses or rights with regard to the use of certain of such processes, technology, products, and information, such as the NRC license of the lung antibody used by the Company for L-DOS47, such licenses or rights may be terminated or expire during critical periods and the Company might not be able to obtain licenses or other rights which may be important to it, or, if obtained, such licenses might not be obtained on favorable terms. Some of these licenses provide for limited periods of exclusivity that may be extended only with the consent of the licensor and such extensions may not be granted on any or all such licenses. This same restriction may be contained in licenses obtained in the future. To maintain these agreements in good standing, the Company must abide by the terms of such agreements, and the loss of any of such agreements due to default would have a negative impact on the Company. In particular, the loss of the NRC license for the antibody used in L-DOS47 would have a material adverse effect on the further development of that compound, and may require the cessation of such development, which would have a material adverse effect on the Company. Unless earlier terminated, the NRC license will terminate when the last patent right related to the licensed technology expires, on a country-by-country basis. Patent applications in respect of the technology which is the subject of the license have been filed in Canada, the United States, and as a PCT filing. A patent granted from the application in Canada or the United States would expire on August 17, 2024 and May 25, 2026, respectively. Claims of infringement by the Company of proprietary rights owned by third-parties may cause the Company to incur expenses in defending against such allegations, or require the Company to modify its products or obtain licenses. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries have experienced substantial litigation involving the manufacture, use and sale of new products that are the subject of conflicting proprietary rights. As a result, there is a substantial 23 risk that the Company, or one or more of its licensors, may become subject to litigation alleging that the Company’s or such licensor’s products and technologies infringe on the proprietary rights of third parties. It is possible that the Company’s products and technologies do infringe the rights of third parties. Whether or not the Company’s or such licensors products or technologies infringe on the proprietary rights of third parties, the Company or such licensor could incur significant expenses in defending allegations of infringement of proprietary rights. Further, the Company or such licensors may be required to modify its products or obtain licenses for intellectual property rights as a result of any alleged proprietary infringement. The Company or such licensors may not be able to modify their products or obtain licenses on commercially reasonable terms in a timely manner or at all, any of which could adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company is dependent on its patent rights, and if patent rights are not issued or are invalidated or circumvented, its business would be adversely affected. We will be able to protect our intellectual property rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our intellectual property rights are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. We try to protect our intellectual property position by filing patent applications related to our proprietary technology, inventions and improvements that are important to the development of our business. We will also, from time to time, license rights to intellectual property which is the subject of patent applications of third parties, such as in the case of our license from the NRC for the antibody used in L-DOS47. Because the patent position of pharmaceutical companies involves complex legal and factual questions, the issuance, scope and enforceability of patents cannot be predicted with certainty. Patent applications may not result in patents being issued. Even if issued, they may not be issued with claims sufficiently broad to protect our products and technologies, may not provide us with a competitive advantage against competitors with similar products or technologies, and may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. If our owned or licensed patents are invalidated, or patents are not issued in respect of our owned or licensed patent applications, we will lose the ability to exclude others from making, using or selling the invention claimed. Moreover, an issued patent does not guarantee us the right to practice the patented technology or commercialize a product using that technology. Third parties may have blocking patents that could be used to prevent us from developing our product candidates, selling our products or commercializing the patented technology. Thus, any patents that we own or license from others may not allow us to exploit the rights conferred by the intellectual property protection. Furthermore, others may independently develop products or technologies similar to those that we have developed or discover our trade secrets. In addition, the laws of many countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of Canada and the United States, and those countries may also lack adequate rules and procedures for defending our intellectual property rights. Certain of the Company’s major products may lose patent protection in the near future and, if that occurs, the development of the Company’s products would be adversely affected. Patents have a finite life, generally 20 years from the date of initial application. Because pharmaceutical drug development is a long-term proposition involving, among other things, years of research, clinical trials, manufacturing scaling-up, regulatory applications and approvals, a patent applied for at the early stages of research and development of a drug candidate may only protect the patent holder’s rights following the drug’s commercialization for a time period substantially less than 20 years. The amount of remaining life of a patent will ordinarily be a substantial factor in attracting commercialization partners for the underlying drug, and will affect the terms of the arrangement between the Company and any such partner. In the case of Topical Interferon Alpha-2b, three patents are scheduled to expire in 2013 (See ITEM 4.B – Important Business Developments – Topical Interferon Alpha-2b and Intellectual Property). While the Company made a provisional patent application with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office in 2007 with a view to further strengthening its patent portfolio for Topical Interferon Alpha-2b, such patent may not be issued. The failure of such patent to be issued may adversely affect the further development of Topical Interferon Alpha-2b, including by reason of the possibility that Schering-Plough may determine not to provide the Company with further quantities of interferon alpha-2b beyond the quantity originally agreed to, and/or may determine not to exercise its option to obtain a worldwide, exclusive license to make, have made, export, use, offer for sale and sell pharmaceutical products containing alpha interferon in combination with the Biphasix™ Technology. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the Company. 24 Our proprietary technology is difficult to protect, and the unauthorized use of our proprietary technology by a third party may impair our ability to compete effectively. We rely on trade secrets, know-how and technology, which are not protected by patents, to maintain our competitive position. We try to protect this information by entering into confidentiality undertakings with parties that have access to it, such as our current and prospective distributors, collaborators, employees and consultants. Any of these parties may breach the undertakings and disclose our confidential information or our competitors might learn of the information in some other way. Enforcing a claim that a third-party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is expensive and time consuming and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside Canada and the United States may be less willing to or may not protect trade secrets. If any trade secret, know-how or other technology not protected by a patent were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor, our business may be materially adversely affected. The Company may be exposed to liability claims which are uninsured or not sufficiently insured, and any claims may adversely affect the Company’s ability to obtain insurance in the future or result in negative publicity regarding the efficacy of its products. The sale of products in our distribution operations, the use of any of our unapproved products under development, the use of our products in clinical trials, and, if regulatory approval is received, the sale of such products, may expose us to liability claims which could materially adversely affect our business. Such claims might be made directly by consumers, healthcare providers or by pharmaceutical companies or others selling or consuming such products. We currently have general liability and office contents insurance. This insurance may not cover any potential claim or if coverage is available, may not provide sufficient coverage to protect us against loss. We may not be able to maintain or obtain commercially reasonable product liability insurance for future products, and any claims under any insurance policies may adversely affect our ability to maintain existing policies or to obtain new insurance on existing or future products. Further, even if sufficient insurance coverage is available to cover any potential claim, publicity associated with any such claim could adversely affect public opinion regarding the safety or efficacy of our products. As a result, any product liability claim or recall could materially adversely affect our business. The Company will be dependent upon reimbursement from third-party payors who may have reimbursement policies which adversely affect the Company’s ability to sell its products on a profitable basis. In both domestic and foreign markets, sales of the Company’s products, if any, will be dependent in part on the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors, such as government and private insurance plans. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. The Company’s products may not be considered cost effective by these third-party payors and reimbursement may not be available or, if available, the payors’ reimbursement policies may adversely affect the Company’s ability to sell its products on a profitable basis. The Company’s business involves environmental risks that could result in accidental contamination, injury, and significant capital expenditures in order to comply with environmental laws and regulations. Research, development and commercial processes may result in residues that may be environmentally unfriendly. The Company and its commercial collaborators are subject to laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of such materials and certain waste products. Although the Company believes that its safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials complies with the standards prescribed by such laws and regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. In the event of such an accident, the Company could be held liable for any damages that result and any such liability could exceed the resources of the Company. The Company is not specifically insured with respect to this liability. The Company (or its collaborators) may be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations in the future; and the operations, business or assets of the Company may be materially adversely affected by current or future environmental laws or regulations. 25 The Company’s finances may fluctuate based on foreign currency exchange rates. The Company operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risks from various currencies, primarily the Euro and U.S. dollar. Foreign exchange risks arise from the foreign currency translation of the Company’s integrated foreign operation in Ireland. The net assets in Ireland consist mainly of cash and cash equivalents, denominated in Euro dollars, which are currently used to fund clinical trials of Topical Interferon Alpha-2b in Europe. In addition, foreign exchange risks arise from purchase transactions as well as recognized financial assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. Both purchase transactions and recognized financial assets and liabilities are primarily denominated in Euro and U.S. dollars. The Company purchases and pays for inventory in both Euro and U.S. dollars. Purchased inventory is sold into the Canadian marketplace in Canadian dollars. The Company also purchases and pays for various services, such as consulting services and clinical research costs in both Euro and U.S. dollars. In addition, the Company receives a revenue stream from royalties denominated in Euro dollars from the license of the Company’s Klean-PrepTM to Helsinn. The Company’s main objective in managing its foreign exchange risk has been to maintain sufficient Euro dollars on hand to support Euro forecasted cash flows in support of ongoing clinical trials of Topical Interferon Alpha-2b in Europe as well as a hedge against purchase transactions denominated in Euro dollars. The Company has generally maintained minimal cash balances denominated in U.S. dollars due to Canadian dollar’s appreciation against the U.S. dollar and the small amount of purchase transactions denominated in U.S. dollars. As the Company expands its research and development programs, some of these contracted services are being denominated in U.S. dollars. The Company is currently assessing its objectives, as it relates to U.S. denominated foreign exchange transactions, in light of the recent appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Canadian dollar and other world currencies. The Company does not currently qualify for listing on a U.S. national exchange, but should it eventually qualify and obtain such a listing, it may continue to rely on Canadian requirements concerning corporate governance issues, in which case, there exists the possibility that Canadian securities requirements will provide less protection than those required under the U.S. national exchange rules. The Company does not currently qualify for a listing on a U.S. national exchange. Should it eventually qualify and obtain such a listing as a foreign private issuer, then the Company may rely on certain rules of a national exchange, which permits a foreign private issuer to follow its home country requirements concerning certain corporate governance issues, rather than comply with the exchange rule. Where an issuer elects to follow its home country requirements, it must disclose in its annual reports filed with the SEC or on its website each such U.S. requirement that it does not follow and must describe the home country practice followed by the issuer in lieu of such requirement. Corporate governance requirements mandated by NASDAQ for domestic issuers but in respect of which the Company could elect to follow its home country practice, and which could present a material risk to investors, include majority independence of the board of directors and quorum requirements for shareholder meetings. Pursuant to National Policy 58-201, “Corporate Governance Guidelines”, of the Canadian Securities Administrators, the Company is encouraged, but not required, to have a majority of independent directors, within the meaning of such policy. The Company currently has a majority of independent directors and the audit committee is composed of three directors, all of whom are independent, as required pursuant to Canadian securities rules. Certain of the Company’s Board members may not be deemed independent pursuant to NASDAQ requirements. With respect to quorum for shareholder meetings, NASDAQ requires a minimum quorum of 33-1/3% of the Company’s outstanding shares. The Company has adopted new by-laws, subject to confirmation by shareholders, which provide that a quorum of shareholders is present at a meeting of shareholders, if the holders of 10% of the shares entitled to vote at the meeting are present in person or represented by proxy, provided that a quorum shall not be less than two persons. If the new by-laws are not confirmed by shareholders, then the quorum requirement will be two persons present in person, each being a shareholder entitled to vote at the meeting or a duly appointed proxy holder or representative for a shareholder so entitled. 26 ITEM 