Item 1A. Risk Factors — Concordia and Stena’s ownership interest in our company can have significant influence over the Company, including the outcome of shareholder votes and our ability to conduct future business or modify existing agreements with Stena or Concordia.” Our fleet consists of eight tankers, which we refer to as the Vessels. In November 2004, we acquired our original fleet of six tankers consisting of two V-MAX tankers, two Panamax tankers and two Product tankers, which 2 Table of Contents we refer to as the Initial Vessels. On January 5, 2006 we acquired two additional Product tankers, which we refer to as the Additional Vessels. We have eight wholly owned subsidiaries, each of which owns one of the Vessels. We purchased the two V-MAX tankers from subsidiaries of Concordia, the four Product tankers from subsidiaries of Stena and the two Panamax tankers from two companies owned 75% by Stena and 25% by Fram Shipping Ltd., which we refer to as Fram. We have chartered our two V-MAX tankers to two wholly owned subsidiaries of Concordia. We have chartered our two Panamax tankers and four Product tankers to Stena Bulk AB, a wholly owned subsidiary of Stena. We refer to our charters for our Vessels as the Charters. We refer to these two Concordia subsidiaries and Stena Bulk AB collectively as the Charterers. The Charters have fixed terms that expire at various dates in 2008, 2009 and 2010. The Charterers have options to extend the term of the Charters for each of the Vessels. We also have an option to extend the term of the Charters of the Additional Vessels. The Charters provide for a fixed base charter rate which we refer to as Basic Hire and, in some cases, the potential to earn Additional Hire as explained below under the caption Additional Hire. Each of our wholly owned subsidiaries has also entered into a fixed rate ship management agreement with Northern Marine Management Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of Stena which we refer to as Northern Marine, to provide for the operation and maintenance of each of our Vessels. At the time we acquired our two V-MAX Vessels, these Vessels were sub-chartered by Concordia to Sun International. The sub-charter with Sun International relating to the Stena Victory expired on October 20, 2007. The sub-charter with Sun International relating to the Stena Vision was originally due to expire within 30 days of June 30, 2007. However, because that vessel was off-hire for repairs, Sun International has exercised its right to extend the term of the sub-charter relating to the Stena Vision so that it is now due to expire within 30 days of July 31, 2008. The sub-charter rate that Concordia received from Sun International with respect to the Stena Victory, and the sub-charter rate that Concordia continues to receive from Sun International with respect to the Stena Vision, is greater than the Basic Hire rate that we receive from Concordia. Therefore, we earned Additional Hire revenue while the Stena Victory was sub-chartered to Sun International, and we continue to earn Additional Hire revenue while the Stena Vision is sub-chartered to Sun International. The amount of this Additional Hire is equal to the difference between the amount paid by Sun International under its sub-charters with Concordia and the Basic Hire rate in effect, less ship broker commissions paid by the Charterer in an amount not to exceed 2.5% of the charterhire received by the Charterer and commercial management fees paid by the Charterer in an amount not to exceed 1.25% of the charterhire received by the Charterer. The Additional Hire revenue associated with the ongoing Sun International sub-charter of the Stena Vision is guaranteed, meaning that we are paid the Additional Hire revenue by Concordia whether or not the Vessel is in service during the term of the Sun International sub-charter. Immediately following the expiration of the sub-charter of the Stena Victory with Sun International, on October 20, 2007, the Vessel commenced operating under a new two-year sub-charter agreement between Concordia and Eiger Shipping, SA, an affiliate of the shipping branch of LukOil commonly known as Litasco. In addition, immediately following the expiration of the sub-charter of the Stena Vision with Sun International, we expect the Vessel to commence operating under a new two-year sub-charter agreement between Concordia and Eiger Shipping. The sub-charter rate that Eiger Shipping is obligated to pay to Concordia is greater than the Basic Hire rate that we will receive from Concordia. Therefore, we expect to earn Additional Hire revenue while the V-MAX vessels are under the Eiger Shipping sub-charters in addition to the Basic Hire. The Additional Hire revenue will not be exposed to fluctuations in spot market rates. Additional Hire for the V-MAX tankers under the Eiger Shipping sub-charters will be based on the time charter hire received by Concordia under the sub-charters. Additional Hire revenues under the Eiger Shipping sub-charters are not guaranteed, meaning that we will earn Additional Hire only when the Vessels are in service. In the event that the V-MAX tankers are off-hire, we will not be eligible to earn Additional Hire revenue from the profit sharing provisions on the days that the Vessel is off-hire. Based on the time charter rates under the Eiger Shipping sub-charters and assuming that both V-MAX vessels operate for 90 days per quarter, we expect the V-MAX tankers to generate Additional Hire revenues of approximately $350,000 per Vessel per quarter in addition to the guaranteed Basic Hire levels, while the Vessels are sub-chartered to Eiger Shipping. 3 Table of Contents We believe that our fleet is one of the youngest in the world, with an average age as of December 31, 2007 of approximately 4.2 years compared to the world average of approximately 10.6 years for all tankers according to Clarkson Research Studies Ltd. The two V-MAX tankers, which came into service in 2001 are approximately six years old, and the Panamax and Product tankers, which came into service during 2004 and 2005, are each less than four years old. All of our tankers have double hulls and are of very high quality. Strategy Our strategy is designed to generate stable and generally predictable cash flow through long-term fixed rate charters, which reduces our exposure to volatility in the market for seaborne oil and oil product transportation. We intend to pay dividends in accordance with our dividend policy, which is described below in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Dividend Policy”. The following are the key elements of our strategy: • Acquire high quality tankers. Our two V-MAX tankers were built in 2001 and our six other tankers entered service during 2004 and 2005. All of our tankers have double hulls and have been designed to provide more efficient transportation of oil and oil products compared to other standard ship designs. We will consider acquiring additional tankers in the future. Any such acquisition will require additional financing and the consent of our lender under our current secured credit facility. • Time charter our tankers to experienced charterers. We time charter our tankers to subsidiaries of Stena and Concordia. Stena and Concordia have agreed to guarantee their respective subsidiaries’ obligations under the Charters. Stena operates a fleet of oil tankers. Stena’s current customers for its fleet of owned and chartered-in tankers include major oil companies such as ChevronTexaco Corporation, the Royal Dutch/Shell Group of Companies, ConocoPhillips and BP plc. The two V-MAX tankers in our fleet are chartered by Concordia one of these V-MAX tankers is currently sub-chartered to Sun International and the other is currently sub-chartered to Eiger Shipping. • Charter our tankers under long term fixed rate charters. Our existing Charters are designed to generate stable and generally predictable cash flow and reduce our exposure to the volatility in tanker spot rates. Some of our charters provide for an opportunity to earn Additional Hire during favorable market conditions. The Basic Hire payable to us under our Charters will increase annually by an amount equal to the annual increase in the fees payable by us under the ship management agreements. • Arrange for ship management contracts with an experienced ship manager. We have entered into ship management contracts with Northern Marine for each of our Vessels. Under these agreements, Northern Marine has assumed all responsibilities for the technical management of the Vessels, including crewing, maintenance, repair, drydocking and insurance for a fixed daily fee per Vessel which increases 5% annually. In addition, Northern Marine has agreed to indemnify us for our loss of Basic Hire and direct costs in the event, for circumstances specified under the Charters, the Vessel is off-hire or receiving reduced hire for more than five days during any twelve-month period, net of amounts received from off-hire insurance. These arrangements are designed to provide stable and generally predictable operating costs for our fleet. Competitive Strengths We believe that our fleet, together with our contractual arrangements with the Charterers and Northern Marine, give us a number of competitive strengths, including: • one of the youngest fleets of tankers in the world; • diversified exposure to three sub-segments of the tanker market; • two unique V-MAX tankers; • vessels managed by Northern Marine, which we believe is one of the industry’s most qualified vessel managers; 4 Table of Contents • fixed rate time charters intended to provide stable and generally predictable cash flow, reducing our exposure to volatility in tanker spot rates, and, in six of our charters, profit sharing agreements which provide the opportunity to earn Additional Hire revenues; and • fixed operating costs under our ship management agreements. Our Fleet We acquired our six Initial Vessels from Stena, Concordia and Fram concurrently with the completion of our initial public offering on November 10, 2004. We acquired Stena Concept and Stena Contest from Stena on January 5, 2006. The following chart summarizes certain information about our fleet. Initial Charter Latest Charter Vessel Type Year Built Dwt Date Acquired Expiration Date(1) Expiration Date(1) V-MAX Stena Victory 2001 314,000 November 10, 2004 November 9, 2009 November 9, 2012 Stena Vision 2001 314,000 November 10, 2004 November 9, 2009 November 9, 2012 Panamax Stena Companion 2004 72,000 November 10, 2004 November 9, 2008 November 9, 2011 Stena Compatriot 2004 72,000 November 10, 2004 November 9, 2010 November 9, 2013 Product Stena Concord 2004 47,400 November 10, 2004 November 9, 2008 November 9, 2011 Stena Consul 2004 47,400 November 10, 2004 November 9, 2010 November 9, 2013 Stena Concept 2005 47,400 January 5, 2006 January 4, 2009 July 4, 2011 Stena Contest 2005 47,400 January 5, 2006 January 4, 2009 July 4, 2011 (1) Each of the charters contains renewal options described in greater detail below. All of our tankers have double hulls and are of very high quality. These tankers are fitted with long-term planned maintenance software programs so that all routine machinery adjustments are done effectively and with minimal disruption in service. Our V-MAX tankers were designed by Stena and Concordia to provide more efficient transportation and increased safety over standard VLCCs. The body of our V-MAX tankers is wider than a conventional VLCC. This enables these Vessels to carry more cargo at a shallower draft, which lowers transportation costs. Our V-MAX tankers also have two rudders and propellers, which improve vessel maneuverability and port access. These tankers have been designed for a structural fatigue life of 40 years. Our V-MAX tankers typically load crude oil in West Africa and discharge in Philadelphia, which is a port that cannot be accessed by conventional VLCCs. Our Panamax tankers have fully epoxy coated tanks and a tank design that permit the Vessels to change from transporting dirty to clean petroleum products faster than a standard vessel of this class. Our Panamax tankers also have integrated bridge systems, unique in vessels of this class, that provide increased efficiency, safety, visibility, communication and maneuvering capabilities to the bridge team navigating the vessel. Our Panamax tankers typically trade in the North, South and Central Americas primarily carrying crude oil but also clean products. Our Product tankers have one of the most efficient designs for vessels in this class and feature 10 completely independent multiple-grade cargo segregations, which provide increased flexibility over the six segregations standard in Product tankers. Compared to standard vessels in this class, our Product tankers also have more powerful engines that provide flexibility to respond to weather conditions and market demands and a tank design that permits quicker discharge and reduced tank preparation time to load the next cargo. Our Product tankers currently trade primarily in the Caribbean and the Transatlantic and primarily carry clean products such as gasoline, diesel and jetfuel. 5 Table of Contents Our Charters The following summary of the material terms of the Charters does not purport to be complete and is subject to, and qualified in its entirety by reference to, all the provisions of the Charters. Because the following is only a summary, it does not contain all information that you may find useful. For more complete information, you should read the entire Time Charter Party for each Vessel incorporated by reference as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. General Our wholly owned subsidiaries have time chartered our Vessels to the Charterers. Upon completion of our initial public offering in November 2004, each of our Initial Vessels was chartered for a fixed term expiring in November 2009, followed by three one-year options exercisable at the option of the Charterers. In January 2006, in connection with our acquisition of the Additional Vessels from Stena, the fixed term for one of our Product tankers (Stena Consul) and one of our Panamax tankers (Stena Compatriot) was extended to November 2010, followed by three one-year options exercisable by the Charterer and the fixed term for one of our Product tankers (Stena Concord) and one of our Panamax tankers (Stena Companion) was reduced to November 2008, followed by three one-year options exercisable by the Charterer. The terms of the Charters for our V-MAX tankers were not amended. The fixed charter period for the two Additional Vessels that we acquired in January 2006 expires in January 2009. At the end of the initial three-year period, both we and the Charterer have the option to extend the time charters on a vessel-by-vessel basis for an additional 30 months. Furthermore, if the Charterer exercises the 30-month option, there will be two additional one-year options, exercisable by the Charterer. We have agreed to guarantee the obligations of each of our subsidiaries under the Charters. The Charterers are Stena Bulk AB, a wholly owned subsidiary of Stena, and CM V-MAX I Limited and CM V-MAX II Limited, each a wholly owned subsidiary of Concordia. Under the Charters, we are required to keep the Vessels seaworthy, and to crew and maintain them. Northern Marine performs those duties for us under the ship management agreements described below. If a structural change or new equipment is required due to changes in law, classification society or regulatory requirements, the Charterers will be required to pay for such changes if the cost is less than $100,000 per year per vessel. Otherwise the cost of any such improvement or change will be shared between us and the Charterer of the Vessel based on the remaining charter period and the remaining depreciation period of the Vessel (calculated as 25 years from the year built). The Charterers are not obligated to pay us charterhire for off-hire days of fewer than five days per Vessel per year, which include days a Vessel is unable to be in service due to, among other things, repairs or drydockings. Each Charter also provides that the Basic Hire will be reduced if the Vessel does not achieve the performance specifications set forth in the Charter. However, under the ship management agreements described below, Northern Marine will reimburse us for any loss of or reduction in Basic Hire, in excess of five days during any twelve-month period following the date the vessels are delivered to us, net of any proceeds we receive from our off-hire insurance. The terms of the Charters do not provide the Charterers with an option to terminate the Charter before the end of its term except in the event of the total loss or constructive total loss of a Vessel. In addition, each Charter provides that we may not sell the related Vessel without the Charterer’s consent, which consent may be withheld in the Charterer’s sole discretion. At the time we acquired our two V-MAX Vessels, these Vessels were sub-chartered by Concordia to Sun International. The sub-charter with Sun International relating to the Stena Victory expired on October 20, 2007. The sub-charter with Sun International relating to the Stena Vision was originally due to expire within 30 days of June 30, 2007. However, because that vessel was off-hire for repairs, Sun International has exercised its right to extend the term of the sub-charter relating to the Stena Vision so that it is now due to expire within 30 days of July 31, 2008. The sub-charter rate that Concordia received from Sun International with respect to the Stena Victory, and the sub-charter rate that Concordia continues to receive from Sun International with respect to the Stena Vision, is greater than the Basic Hire rate that we receive from Concordia. Therefore, we earned Additional Hire revenue while the Stena Victory was sub-chartered to Sun International, and we continue to earn Additional Hire revenue 6 Table of Contents while the Stena Vision is sub-chartered to Sun International. The amount of this Additional Hire is equal to the difference between the amount paid by Sun International under its sub-charters with Concordia and the Basic Hire rate in effect, less ship broker commissions paid by the Charterer in an amount not to exceed 2.5% of the charterhire received by the Charterer and commercial management fees paid by the Charterer in an amount not to exceed 1.25% of the charterhire received by the Charterer. The Additional Hire revenue associated with the ongoing Sun International sub-charter of the Stena Vision is guaranteed, meaning that we are paid the Additional Hire revenue by Concordia whether or not Vessel is in service during the term of the Sun International sub-charter. Immediately following the expiration of the sub-charter of the Stena Victory with Sun International, on October 20, 2007, the Vessel commenced operating under a new two-year sub-charter agreement between Concordia and Eiger Shipping, S.A. an affiliate of the shipping branch of LukOil, commonly known as Litasco. In addition, immediately following the expiration of the sub-charter of the Stena Vision with Sun International, we expect the Vessel to commence operating under a new two-year sub-charter agreement between Concordia and Eiger Shipping. The sub-charter rate that Eiger Shipping is obligated to pay to Concordia is greater than the Basic Hire rate that we will receive from Concordia. Therefore, we expect to earn Additional Hire revenue while the V-MAX vessels are under the Eiger Shipping sub-charters in addition to the guaranteed Basic Hire. The Additional Hire revenue will not be exposed to fluctuations in spot market rates. Additional Hire for the V-MAX tankers under the Eiger Shipping sub-charters will be based on the time charter hire received by Concordia under the sub-charters. Additional Hire revenues under the Eiger Shipping sub-charters are not guaranteed, meaning that we will earn Additional Hire only when the Vessels are in service. In the event that the V-MAX tankers are off-hire, we will not be eligible to earn Additional Hire revenue from the profit sharing provisions on the days that the Vessel is off-hire. Based on the time charter rates under the Eiger Shipping sub-charters and assuming that both V-MAX vessels operate for 90 days per quarter, we expect the V-MAX tankers to generate Additional Hire revenues of approximately $350,000 per Vessel per quarter in addition to the guaranteed Basic Hire levels, while the Vessels are sub-chartered to Eiger Shipping. The Vessels that we have time chartered to Stena Bulk are not currently subject to any sub-charters. Stena has agreed to guarantee the performance of Stena Bulk under the Charters, including payment of charterhire. Basic Hire Under Our Charters The Charters provide for the payment of Basic Hire fees that increase annually by an amount equal to the annual increase in the fees under our ship management agreements, which are described below under the heading “Our Ship Management Agreements.” The Basic Hire rate for each of the Vessels is payable monthly in advance and will increase annually by an amount equal to the annual increase in the fee payable under the applicable ship management agreement. The Basic Hire under the charters for each vessel type during each charter year is set forth below. The first charter year for the Initial Vessels commenced on November 10, 2004. Each subsequent charter year will begin on November 11 of the applicable year and end on the subsequent November 10. The first charter year for the Additional Vessels commenced on January 5, 2006. Each subsequent charter year will begin on January 5 of the applicable year and end on the subsequent January 4. In 2011, the charter period for the Additional Vessels may be extended for a six month-period beginning on January 5 and ending on July 4 and subsequent charter years will begin on July 5 and end on July 4. Stena and Concordia have each agreed to guarantee the obligations of their respective subsidiaries under the Charters. 7 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the daily Basic Hire, daily base operating costs and operating margin for our two V-MAX vessels, the Stena Vision and the Stena Victory. The operating margin is calculated by subtracting the amount of the base operating costs from the amount of Basic Hire. Period Basic Hire Base Operating Costs Operating Margin Nov. 11, 2007 — Nov. 10, 2008 $ 36,882 $ 8,682 $ 28,200 Nov. 11, 2008 — Nov. 10, 2009 37,316 9,116 28,200 Nov. 11, 2009 — Nov. 10, 2010 (Option Year 1)(1) 37,772 9,572 28,200 Nov. 11, 2010 — Nov. 10, 2011 (Option Year 2) 38,251 10,051 28,200 Nov. 11, 2011 — Nov. 10, 2012 (Option Year 3) 38,753 10,553 28,200 (1) The Charterers have the option to extend the Charters on a vessel-by-vessel basis for 3 additional 1 year terms. There can be no assurance that the Charterer will exercise any option. The following table sets forth the daily Basic Hire, daily base operating costs and operating margin for our two vessels, the Stena Companion and the Stena Concord, with initial charter expiration dates in 2008. Stena Companion Stena Concord Base Operating Operating Base Operating Operating Period Basic Hire Costs Margin Basic Hire Costs Margin Nov. 11, 2007 — Nov. 10, 2008 $ 18,306 $ 6,656 $ 11,650 $ 16,335 $ 6,135 $ 10,200 Nov. 11, 2008 — Nov. 10, 2009 (Option Year 1)(1) 18,639 6,989 11,650 16,642 6,442 10,200 Nov. 11, 2009 — Nov. 10, 2010 (Option Year 2) 18,989 7,339 11,650 16,964 6,764 10,200 Nov. 11, 2010 — Nov. 10, 2011 (Option Year 3) 19,356 7,706 11,650 17,303 7,103 10,200 (1) The Charterers have the option to extend the Charters on a vessel-by-vessel basis for 3 additional 1 year terms. There can be no assurance that the Charterer will exercise any option. The following table sets forth the daily Basic Hire, daily base operating costs and operating margin for our two vessels, the Stena Compatriot and the Stena Consul, with initial charter expiration dates in 2010. The operating margin is calculated by subtracting the amount of the base operating costs from the amount of Basic Hire. Stena Consul Stena Compatriot Base Base Operating Operating Operating Operating Period Basic Hire Costs Margin Basic Hire Costs Margin Nov. 11, 2007 — Nov. 10, 2008 $ 18,306 $ 6,656 $ 11,650 $ 16,335 $ 6,135 $ 10,200 Nov. 11, 2008 — Nov. 10, 2009 18,639 6,989 11,650 16,642 6,442 10,200 Nov. 11, 2009 — Nov. 10, 2010 18,989 7,339 11,650 16,964 6,764 10,200 Nov. 11, 2010 — Nov. 10, 2011 (Option Year 1)(1) 19,356 7,706 11,650 17,303 7,103 10,200 Nov. 11, 2011 — Nov. 10, 2012 (Option Year 2) 19,741 8,091 11,650 17,658 7,458 10,200 Nov. 11, 2012 — Nov. 10, 2013 (Option Year 3) 20,145 8,495 11,650 18,031 7,831 10,200 (1) The Charterers have the option to extend the Charters on a vessel-by-vessel basis for 3 additional 1 year terms. There can be no assurance that the Charterer will exercise any option. 8 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the daily Basic Hire, daily base operating costs and operating margin for our two Additional Vessels, the Stena Concept and the Stena Contest. Base Operating Period Basic Hire Costs Operating Margin Jan. 5, 2007 — Jan 4, 2008 $ 20,043 $ 5,843 $ 14,200 Jan. 5, 2008 — Jan. 4, 2009 20,335 6,135 14,200 Jan. 5, 2009 — Jan. 4, 2010 (Option Period 1)(1) 17,942 6,442 11,500 Jan. 5, 2010 — Jan. 4, 2011 (Option Year 1) 18,264 6,764 11,500 Jan. 5, 2011 — July 4, 2011 (Option Period 1) 18,603 7,103 11,500 July 5, 2011 — July 4, 2012 (Option Period 2)(2) 21,158 7,458 13,700 July 5, 2012 — July 4, 2013 (Option Period 3) 21,531 7,831 13,700 (1) At the end of the initial fixed charter period expiring on January 4, 2009, either we or the Charterers may extend the Charters on a vessel-by-vessel basis for an additional 30-month period expiring on July 4, 2011. If the Charterer extends the Charter for this 30-month period, we would be eligible to earn Additional Hire in addition to Basic Hire. If we extend the Charter for this 30-month period, we would not be eligible to earn Additional Hire during this period. There can be no assurance that the Charterer will exercise any option. (2) This period is the first for which the Charterer has the option to extend the Charters if the Charterer exercises the option described in Footnote 1 above. We would not be eligible to earn Additional Hire over the term of such extension. There can be no assurance that the Charterer will exercise any option. Additional Hire Under Our Charters Under the Charters, in addition to the fixed rate Basic Hire, each Vessel has the possibility of receiving Additional Hire from the Charterers through profit sharing arrangements related to the performance of the tanker markets on specified geographic routes, or from actual time charter rates. The Additional Hire, if any, in respect of each Initial Vessel, is payable on the 25th day following the end of each calendar quarter. Additional Hire is not guaranteed under our Charters. The Additional Hire, if any, payable in respect of an Initial Vessel, other than the V-MAX tankers as described below, for any calendar quarter is an amount equal to 50% of the weighted average hire, calculated as described below, for the quarter after deduction of the Basic Hire in effect for that quarter. The weighted average hire is a daily rate equal to the weighted average of the following amounts: • a weighted average of the time charter hire per day received by the Charterer for any periods during the calculation period, determined as described below, that the Initial Vessel is sub-chartered by the Charterer under a time charter, less ship broker commissions paid by the Charterer in an amount not to exceed 2.5% of such time charter hire and commercial management fees paid by the Charterer in an amount not to exceed 1.25% of such time charter hire; and • the time charter equivalent hire for any periods during the calculation period that the Vessel is not sub-chartered by the Charterer under a time charter. The calculation period is the twelve-month period ending on the last day of each calendar quarter, except that in the case of the first three full calendar quarters following the commencement of our Charters, the calculation period is the three, six and nine month periods, respectively, ending on the last day of such calendar quarter and the first calendar quarter also includes the period from the date of the commencement of our charters to the commencement of the first full calendar quarter. At the time we acquired our two V-MAX tankers, these Vessels were sub-chartered by Concordia to Sun International Limited Bermuda, which we refer to as Sun International, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Sunoco, Inc. The sub-charter with Sun International relating to the Stena Victory expired on October 20, 2007. The sub-charter with Sun International relating to the Stena Vision was originally due to expire within 30 days of June 30, 9 Table of Contents 2007. However, because that vessel was off-hire for repairs, Sun International has exercised its right to extend the term of the sub-charter relating to the Stena Vision so that it is now due to expire within 30 days of July 31, 2008. The sub-charter rate that Concordia received from Sun International with respect to the Stena Victory, and the sub-charter rate that Concordia continues to receive from Sun International with respect to the Stena Vision, is greater than the Basic Hire rate that we receive from Concordia. Therefore, we earned Additional Hire revenue while the Stena Victory was sub-chartered to Sun International, and we continue to earn Additional Hire revenue while the Stena Vision is sub-chartered to Sun International. The amount of this Additional Hire is equal to the difference between the amount paid by Sun International under its sub-charters with Concordia and the Basic Hire rate in effect, less ship broker commissions paid by the Charterer in an amount not to exceed 2.5% of the charterhire received by the Charterer and commercial management fees paid by the Charterer in an amount not to exceed 1.25% of the charterhire received by the Charterer. The Additional Hire revenue associated with the ongoing Sun International sub-charter of the Stena Vision is guaranteed, meaning that we are paid the Additional Hire revenue by Concordia whether or not the Vessel is in service during the term of the Sun International sub-charter. Immediately following the expiration of the sub-charter of the Stena Victory with Sun International, that Vessel commenced operating under a new two-year sub-charter agreement between Concordia and Eiger Shipping S.A., an affiliate of the shipping branch of LukOil, commonly know as Litasco. In addition, immediately following the expiration of the sub-charter of the Stena Vision with Sun International, we expect the Vessel to commence operating under a new two-year sub-charter agreement between Concordia and Eiger Shipping. The sub-charter rate that Eiger Shipping is obligated to pay to Concordia is greater than the Basic Hire rate that we will receive from Concordia. Therefore, we expect to earn Additional Hire revenue while the V-MAX vessels are under the Eiger Shipping sub-charters in addition to the guaranteed Basic Hire. The Additional Hire revenue will not be exposed to fluctuations in spot market rates. Additional Hire for the V-MAX tankers under the Eiger Shipping sub-charters will be based on the time charter hire received by Concordia under the sub-charters. Additional Hire revenues under the Eiger Shipping sub-charters are not guaranteed, meaning that we will earn Additional Hire only when the Vessels are in service. In the event that the V-MAX tankers are off-hire, we will not be eligible to earn Additional Hire revenue from the profit sharing provisions on the days that the Vessel is off-hire. Based on the time charter rates under the Eiger Shipping sub-charters and assuming that both V-MAX vessels operate for 90 days per quarter, we expect the V-MAX tankers to generate Additional Hire revenues of approximately $350,000 per Vessel per quarter in addition to the guaranteed Basic Hire levels, while the Vessels are sub-chartered to Eiger Shipping. The Time Charter Equivalent Hire referred to above is a weighted average of day rates calculated using the parameters set forth below, which we call the Daily Value. The Daily Value is calculated using average spot rates expressed in Worldscale Points determined by a shipbrokers panel for the routes specified below which are the routes on which our vessel types generally trade. We refer to these rates as the Average Spot Rates and we refer to these routes as the Notional Routes. Daily Value is determined as follows: • multiplying the Average Spot Rate expressed in Worldscale Points by the applicable Worldscale flat rate and multiplying that product by the cargo size for each vessel type to calculate freight income; • subtracting voyage costs consisting of brokerage commissions of 2.5% and commercial management fees of 1.25%, bunker costs and port charges to calculate voyage income; and • dividing voyage income by voyage duration, including time in port, to calculate the Daily Value. The Time Charter Equivalent Hire is then determined as a weighted average of the Daily Values calculated for each of the Notional Routes for each of our vessel types. In the case of the V-MAX tankers an amount equal to 10% of such weighted average is added to the Time Charter Equivalent Hire to adjust for the additional cargo capacity of V-MAX tankers as compared to a standard VLCC. The shipbrokers panel, which we call the Brokers Panel, is the Association of Shipbrokers and Agents Tanker Broker Panel. We can change the panel of brokers to a new panel mutually acceptable to us and the Charterer. On the last day of each calendar quarter and on the expiration date of the Charter, we and the Charterer will instruct the Brokers Panel to determine for each Notional Route the Average Spot Rate over any periods during the Calculation Period that a Vessel is not sub-chartered by the Charterer under a time charter. If Worldscale ceases to be published, 10 Table of Contents the Brokers Panel will use its best judgment in determining the nearest alternative method of assessing the market rates on the specified voyages. We instruct the Brokers Panel to deliver their determination of the Average Spot Rates no later than the fifth business day following the instruction to make such determination. The costs of the Brokers Panel are shared equally between us and the Charterer. For each Calculation Period, the Charterer will calculate the amount of Time Charter Equivalent Hire and the amount of Additional Hire payable, if any, and deliver such calculation to us no later than the fifth business day following the date on which the Charterer receives the determination of Average Spot Rates from the Brokers Panel. These determinations of the Brokers Panel are binding on us and the Charterer. The Notional Routes and the weighting to be applied to each route in calculating the Time Charter Equivalent Hire is as follows: Product tankers: Rotterdam to New York with 37,000 tons clean (40% weight) Curacao to New York with 38,000 tons clean (60% weight) Panamax tankers: Curacao to New York with 50,000 tons dirty (50% weight) Augusta to Houston with 50,000 tons dirty (50% weight) V-MAX tankers: West-Africa to LOOP with 260,000 tons of crude (50% weight) Middle East Gulf to LOOP with 265,000 tons of crude (50% weight) Additional terms used in the calculation of Time Charter Equivalent Hire are as follows: • Calculation of freight income. The freight income for each Notional Route is calculated by multiplying the Average Spot Rate for such route, as supplied by the Brokers Panel, by the Worldscale flat rate for such route as set forth in the New Worldwide Tanker Nominal Freight Scale issued by the Worldscale Association and current for the relevant period and then multiplying such product by the cargo size for such route. • Calculation of voyage income. The voyage income for each Notional Route is calculated by deducting from the freight income for such route ship broker commissions equal to 2.5% of the freight income, commercial management fees equal to 1.25% of the freight income, the port charges and bunker costs (equal to the bunkers used multiplied by the bunkers prices) specified below for each Vessel. Bunkers used are determined based on speed, distance and consumption of bunkers at sea and in port. • Calculation of voyage duration. The voyage duration for each Notional Route is calculated using the distance, speed and time in port specified below for each Vessel. • Data used in calculations. The following data is used by the Charterer in the above calculations: • Bunkers in port For Product tankers: 40 tons per voyage all-inclusive loading and discharging ports. For Panamax tankers: 65 tons per port call all-inclusive loading and discharging ports. For V-MAX tankers: loading 12 tons per day; idling 3 tons per day; discharging 145 tons per day. • Bunker prices For Product tankers and Panamax tankers: the mean of the average prices during the quarter for Marine Fuel Oil grade IFO 380 CST prevailing at Houston, New York and Curacao as published by Platts Bunkerwire, or similar publication, plus barge delivery charges in amount equal to the average barge delivery charges in the applicable port over the prior twelve-month period. 11 Table of Contents For V-MAX tankers: the mean of the average prices during the quarter for Marine Fuel Oil grade IFO 380 CST prevailing at Curacao and Fujairah as published by Platts Bunkerwire, or similar publication, plus barge delivery charges in amount equal to the average barge delivery charges in the applicable port over the prior twelve-month period. • Port charges The port charges for loading and discharging ports on each Notional Route are equal to the published tariffs and exchange rates in effect on the last calendar day of the quarter and include all vessel costs for port calls. • Time in port For Product tankers and Panamax tankers: 5.5 days, which are split 2 days loading, 2 days discharging and the balance of the time idling. For V-MAX tankers: 7.5 days, which are split 3 days loading, 3 days discharging and the balance of the time idling. • Distance The distance for each Notional Route is determined according to the “World-Wide Marine Distance Tables” published by Veson Nautical Distance Tables. • Speed and consumption at sea For Product tankers: 14 knots at 36 tons per day in laden condition and 14 knots at 35 tons per day in ballast condition less a steaming allowance of 7.5 percent applied to the speeds to allow for weather and navigation. For Panamax tankers: 14 knots at 41.5 tons per day in laden condition and 14 knots at 39.5 tons per day in ballast condition less a steaming allowance of 7.5 percent applied to the speeds to allow for weather and navigation. Fuel consumption for cargo heating to be actual figures of fuel consumed but not to exceed 8 tons per day. For V-MAX tankers: 16.9 knots at 127 tons per day in laden condition and 17.7 knots at 127 tons per day in ballast condition less a steaming allowance of 7.5 percent applied to the speeds to allow for weather and navigation. The Notional Routes are intended to represent routes on which Product tankers, Panamax tankers and VLCCs are typically used. If during the term of the Charter, in the Charterer’s reasonable opinion, these routes cease to be used by Product tankers, Panamax tankers or VLCCs, or the assumptions regarding bunkering ports for purposes of determining bunker prices cease to be applicable, the Charterer may, with our consent, which we may not unreasonably withhold, instruct the Brokers Panel to substitute alternative notional routes and bunkering ports that most closely match the routes and bunkering ports typically used by Product tankers, Panamax tankers or VLCCs and to apply appropriate weights to such routes. 12 Table of Contents If in the Charterer’s reasonable opinion it becomes impractical or dangerous, due to war, hostilities, warlike operations, civil war, civil commotion, revolution or terrorism for Product tankers, Panamax tankers and VLCCs to operate on the Notional Routes, the Charterer may request our agreement, which we may not unreasonably refuse, for the Daily Value to be determined during the period of such danger or restriction of trading using Average Spot Rates determined by the Brokers Panel for alternative notional routes proposed by the Charterer that reasonably reflect realistic alternative round voyage trade for Product tankers, Panamax tankers and VLCCs during the period of such danger or restriction of trading. In such event, the Time Charter Equivalent Hire will be calculated using the Daily Value for such alternative routes and applying such weights as determined by the Charterer. Our Ship Management Agreements The following summary of the material terms of the ship management agreements does not purport to be complete and is subject to, and qualified in its entirety by reference to, all the provisions of the ship management agreements. Because the following is only a summary, it does not contain all information that you may find useful. For more complete information, you should read the entire Ship Management Agreement for each Vessel incorporated by reference as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our Vessel Subsidiaries have entered into fixed-rate ship management agreements with Northern Marine. Under the ship management agreements, Northern Marine is responsible for all technical management of the Vessels, including crewing, maintenance, repair, drydockings, vessel taxes and other vessel operating and voyage expenses. Northern Marine has outsourced some of these services to third-party providers. We have agreed to guarantee the obligations of each of our Vessel Subsidiaries under the ship management agreements. At the closing of the acquisition of the Additional Vessels, the ship management agreements for our Initial Vessels were amended. These amendments modified the provisions relating to drydocking of the Vessels. Specifically, the amendments provided that all drydockings during the term of the ship management agreements are to be at the sole cost and expense of Northern Marine. In addition, Northern Marine agreed to conduct at least one mid-period drydocking for each Product tanker and Panamax tanker prior to redelivery of such Vessels. Under the terms of the ship management agreements, the cost of these intermediate and special surveys is covered by the management fees that we pay to Northern Marine. Upon redelivery of the Vessels to us at the expiration of the ship management agreements, Northern Marine has agreed to re-pay to us any drydocking provision accrued, but not used, from the completion of the last drydocking during the term of the applicable Ship Management Agreement (or if no drydocking occurs during the term of such agreement, from the date of commencement of such agreement), to the date of redelivery at the daily rates specified in the ship management agreements. Under the ship management agreements, Northern Marine has agreed to return the Vessels in-class and in the same good order and condition as when delivered, except for ordinary wear and tear. Northern Marine is also obligated under the ship management agreements to maintain insurance for each of our Vessels, including marine hull and machinery insurance, protection and indemnity insurance (including pollution risks and crew insurances), war risk insurance and off-hire insurance. Under the ship management agreements, we pay Northern Marine a fixed fee per day per Vessel for all of the above services, which increases 5% per year, for so long as the relevant charter is in place. Under the ship management agreements, Northern Marine has agreed to indemnify us for the loss of the Basic Hire for each of the Vessels in the event, for circumstances specified under the charters, the Vessel is off-hire or receiving reduced hire for more than five days during any twelve-month period, net of amounts received by us from off-hire insurance. Stena has agreed to guarantee this indemnification by Northern Marine. Both we and Northern Marine have the right to terminate any of the ship management agreements if the relevant charter has been terminated. Tables setting forth the daily base operating costs for each of our Vessels can be found above in the section entitled “— Basic Hire Under Our Charters.” We have also agreed to pay to Northern Marine an incentive fee for each day a Vessel is on hire for over 360 days during any twelve-month period following the date the applicable Vessel was delivered to us in amount equal to the daily Basic Hire for such Vessel. If we terminate the ship management agreements with Northern Marine because Northern Marine has failed to perform its obligations under such agreements, Stena has agreed to 13 Table of Contents provide a replacement ship manager to perform the obligations set forth in the ship management agreements on the same terms and for the same fixed amounts payable to Northern Marine. Northern Marine provides technical and crewing management and payroll and support services to the Stena Sphere shipping divisions and several other clients, including ChevronTexaco Corporation, Technip Offshore UK and Gulf Marine Management. Northern Marine has offices in Glasgow, Aberdeen, Mumbai, Kiel, Houston, Manila, Rotterdam and Singapore and has over 4,400 seafarers employed on approximately 90 vessels. Risk of Loss and Insurance Our operations may be affected by a number of risks, including mechanical failure of our Vessels, collisions, property loss to the Vessels, cargo loss or damage and business interruption due to political circumstances in foreign countries, hostilities and labor strikes. In addition, the operation of any ocean-going vessel is subject to the inherent possibility of catastrophic marine disaster, including oil spills and other environmental mishaps, and the liabilities arising from owning and operating vessels in international trade. Northern Marine is responsible for arranging for the insurance of our Vessels on terms specified in the ship management agreements and our secured credit facility, which we believe are in line with standard industry practice. In accordance with the ship management agreements, Northern Marine has procured marine hull and machinery and war risks insurance, which includes the risk of actual or constructive total loss, and protection and indemnity insurance with mutual assurance associations. In accordance with the ship management agreements, Northern Marine has also obtained off-hire insurance in respect of each of our Vessels. Currently, the amount of coverage for liability for pollution, spillage and leakage available to us on commercially reasonable terms through protection and indemnity associations and providers of excess coverage is $1 billion per Vessel per occurrence. Protection and indemnity associations are mutual marine indemnity associations formed by shipowners to provide protection from large financial loss to one member by contribution towards that loss by all members. We believe that our current insurance coverage is adequate to protect us against the accident-related risks involved in the conduct of our business and that we currently maintain appropriate levels of environmental damage and pollution insurance coverage, consistent with standard industry practice. However, there is no assurance that all risks are adequately insured against, that any particular claims will be paid or that we will be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates in the future following termination of the ship management agreements. Inspection by a Classification Society Every commercial vessel’s hull and machinery is evaluated by a classification society authorized by its country of registry. All of our tankers have been certified as being “in-class” by the American Bureau of Shipping or Det Norske Veritas (DNT). The American Bureau of Shipping and DNT are recognized members of the International Association of Classification Societies and have been recognized by Bermuda as authorized classification societies. A classification society certifies that a Vessel has been built and maintained in accordance with the rules of the classification society and complies with applicable rules and regulations of the Vessel’s country of registry and the international conventions of which that country is a member. Each Vessel is inspected by a surveyor of the classification society in three surveys of varying frequency and thoroughness: every year for the annual survey, every four or five years for intermediate surveys and every four to five years for special surveys; the initial intermediate survey takes place two to three years from the launch of a vessel and from then on there is an interval of two to three years between intermediate and special surveys. Should any defects be found, the classification surveyor will issue a “recommendation” for appropriate repairs which have to be made by the shipowner within the time limit prescribed. Our ship management agreements provide that Northern Marine would be responsible for any repairs recommended by the classification surveyor. Vessels may be required, as part of the annual and intermediate survey process, to be drydocked for inspection of the underwater portions of the Vessel and for any necessary repairs stemming from the inspection. Special surveys always require drydocking. 14 Table of Contents Tanker Industry Overview Overview The tanker industry provides seaborne transportation for the movement of crude oil and refined petroleum products, which include among others naphtha, gasoline, jet fuel, kerosene, gasoil and residual fuel oil. The tanker business can be divided between crude oil carriers and refined product carriers, although many tanker owners participate in both segments. The price for transporting crude oil or refined petroleum products for one voyage on a specific route is referred to as tanker spot market freight rate. Tanker Types The tanker fleet is divided into several categories of vessels, based on their carrying capacity as defined by the vessels deadweight capacity, which is commonly referred to as dwt. The different tanker types as classified by their deadweight capacity are: • ULCCs — tankers over 320,000 dwt; • VLCCs — tankers from 200,000 to 320,000 dwt; • Suezmax tankers — tankers from 120,000 to 200,000 dwt; • Aframax/LR2 tankers — uncoated/coated tankers from 80,000 to 120,000 dwt; • Panamax/LR1 tankers — uncoated/coated tankers from 60,000 to 80,000 dwt; • Handy product tankers/MR tankers — normally coated tankers from 30,000 to 60,000 dwt; and • Small tankers — normally coated tankers up to 20,000 dwt. Crude carriers are either uncoated or partially coated to protect the cargo tanks from the corrosive properties of crude or dirty products, such as residual fuel oils. Coated tankers are those vessels whose cargo carrying tanks are coated to protect the integrity of the cargo that the vessel is carrying. Coated vessels are utilized in the transportation of clean products such as gasoline, jet fuel and gas oil. Industry Conditions Freight rates are set in highly competitive and often volatile markets, where the daily balance of demand and supply for particular vessel types is a primary driver. The oil tanker industry historically has been highly cyclical, experiencing volatility in spot market freight rates, time charter rates and vessel values, resulting from changes in the supply of and the demand for oil and tanker capacity. The demand for tankers is influenced by, among other factors, global and regional economic conditions, changes in seaborne transportation patterns, weather patterns and events, oil production, armed conflicts, port congestion, canal closures, embargoes and strikes. Demand for the seaborne carriage of oil depends largely on the distance between areas that produce crude oil and refined products and areas that consume them. The incremental supply of tanker capacity is a function of the delivery of new vessels and the number of older vessels scrapped, in lay-up, converted to other uses, reactivated or lost. This supply may be affected by regulation of maritime transportation by governmental and international authorities. These factors are generally outside of our control, and are unpredictable. Tanker Demand The volume of crude oil and refined petroleum products transported and the relative distances over which they are transported determines demand for tankers. Tanker demand is generally expressed in ton-miles and is measured as the product of the volume of oil carried (measured in metric tons) multiplied by the distance over which it is carried (measured in miles). Tanker demand is determined largely by the state of the world economy and the global demand for crude oil and refined petroleum products. Other factors affecting tanker demand include relative levels of inventories of crude oil and refined petroleum products, political events, conflicts between nations and unexpected variations in weather. When consuming areas of the world are unable to meet their domestic demand needs, the incremental supply is generally satisfied by increased imports which are typically delivered by tankers. 15 Table of Contents Seasonality Historically, oil trade and charter rates increase in the winter months and decrease in the summer months. Generally the demand for oil in the Northern Hemisphere rises in colder weather and falls in warmer weather. Additionally, due to the long distances of ocean transportation and delivery time concerns, oil traders typically require oil transportation in advance of the peak consumer demand for certain types of oil cargoes. Tanker Supply The supply and availability of tankers, measured in deadweight tons, is affected by several factors including the age profile of the global fleet. Older, single hull vessels face a mandatory phase out required by international conventions. The supply of tankers is also affected by the delivery schedule of newbuildings and by the number of vessels removed through scrapping, conversions to other types of employment such as floating production and storage facilities, and unforeseen events such as seaborne casualties. Newbuilding activity is highly correlated to increases and decreases in charter rates, but the delivery schedule is constrained by shipyard capacity and the strength of orders from other marine transportation segments. Tanker Scrapping Tanker owners may conclude that it is more economical to dispose of or scrap a vessel that has exhausted its useful life rather than continue to maintain or upgrade the vessel in accordance with international standards and rules monitored by the classification societies. Generally when tankers reach an age of approximately 25 years, the costs of conducting the required surveys of the vessel and performing associated repairs may not be economical, particularly if the repairs require replacement of steel plate. There are international regulations that currently call for the mandatory and accelerated scrapping or disposal of vessels, particularly vessels lacking double hulls, in certain parts of the world. Tanker Values Tanker values have historically experienced high volatility. The fair market value of tankers can be expected to fluctuate during their life. Factors that may determine vessel values may be, among other things, the general economic and market conditions affecting the tanker industry, especially the spot voyage freight market, and the age, type, and the general maintenance condition of a vessel. As vessels age they typically will decline in value. We believe that the current market value of our tanker fleet is at a very high level. Environmental Regulation Government regulation significantly affects the ownership and operation of our tankers. They are subject to international conventions, as well as national, state and local laws and regulations in force in the countries where our tankers operate or are registered. Under our ship management agreements, Northern Marine has assumed technical management responsibility for our fleet, including compliance with all environmental regulations. If Northern Marine fails to perform its obligations under the ship management agreements, we could be liable under environmental laws. If our ship management agreements with Northern Marine terminate, we would attempt to hire another party to assume this responsibility, including compliance with the regulations described in this report and any costs associated with such compliance. However, we may be unable to hire another party to perform these and other services for a fixed fee as is the case with Northern Marine. A variety of governmental and private entities subject our tankers to both scheduled and unscheduled inspections. These entities include the local port authorities, such as the U.S. Coast Guard, harbor master or equivalent, classification societies, flag state administration and charterers, particularly terminal operators and oil companies. Certain of these entities require us to obtain permits, licenses and certificates for the operation of our tankers. Failure to maintain necessary permits or approvals could require us to incur substantial costs or temporarily suspend operation of one or more of our tankers. We believe that the heightened level of environmental and quality concerns among insurance underwriters, regulators and charterers is leading to greater inspection and safety requirements on all tankers and may accelerate 16 Table of Contents the scrapping of older tankers throughout the industry. Increasing environmental concerns have created a demand for tankers that conform to the stricter environmental standards. Our two V-MAX tankers were built in 2001 and our six other tankers were completed in 2004 and 2005. Northern Marine is required to maintain operating standards for all of our tankers which address operational safety, quality of maintenance, training of our officers and crews and compliance with U.S. and international regulations. We believe that the operation of our Vessels is in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations. However, because such laws and regulations are frequently changed and may impose increasingly strict requirements, we cannot predict the ultimate cost of complying with these requirements, or the impact of these requirements on the resale value or useful lives of our tankers. International Maritime Organization In 1992, the International Maritime Organization adopted regulations that set forth pollution prevention requirements applicable to tankers. The International Maritime Organization, commonly referred to as the IMO, is the United Nations agency for maritime safety and the prevention of marine pollution by ships. The IMO’s regulations, which have been adopted by over 150 nations, including many of the jurisdictions in which our tankers operate, provide, in part, that: • tankers between 25 and 30 years old must be of double hull construction or of a mid-deck design with double sided construction, unless: • they have wing tanks or double-bottom spaces not used for the carriage of oil, which cover at least 30% of the length of the cargo tank section of the hull or bottom; or • they are capable of hydrostatically balanced loading (loading less cargo into a tanker so that in the event of a breach of the hull, water flows into the tanker, displacing oil upwards instead of into the sea); • tankers 30 years old or older must be of double hull construction or mid-deck design with double sided construction; and • all tankers are subject to enhanced inspections. Also, under IMO regulations, a tanker must be of double hull construction or a mid-deck design with double sided construction or be of another approved design ensuring the same level of protection against oil pollution if the tanker: • is the subject of a contract for a major conversion or original construction on or after July 6, 1993; • commences a major conversion or has its keel laid on or after January 6, 1994; or • completes a major conversion or is a newbuilding delivered on or after July 6, 1996. All of our Vessels are double-hulled. The IMO has also negotiated international conventions that impose liability for oil pollution in international waters and a signatory’s territorial waters. In September 1997, the IMO adopted Annex VI to the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships to address air pollution from ships. Annex VI became effective in May 2005. Annex VI limits sulfur oxide and nitrogen oxide emissions from ship exhausts, prohibits deliberate emissions of ozone depleting substances, such as chlorofluorocarbons, and prohibits onboard incineration of certain materials, such as contaminated packaging or polychlorinated biphenyls. Annex VI includes a global cap on the sulfur content of fuel oil and allows for special areas to be established with more stringent controls on sulfur emissions. All of our Vessels are currently compliant with these regulations. Additional or new conventions, laws and regulations may be adopted that could adversely affect Northern Marine’s ability to manage our ships. Under the International Safety Management Code, or ISM Code, promulgated by the IMO, the party with operational control of a vessel is required to develop an extensive safety management system that includes, among other things, the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures 17 Table of Contents for operating its vessels safely and describing procedures for responding to emergencies. Northern Marine relies upon its safety management system in connection with its management of our Vessels. The ISM Code requires that vessel operators obtain a safety management certificate for each vessel they operate. This certificate evidences compliance by a vessel’s management with code requirements for a safety management system. No vessel can obtain a certificate unless its operator has been awarded a document of compliance, issued by each flag state, under the ISM Code. Northern Marine has the requisite documents of compliance for its offices and safety management certificates for all of our Vessels for which the certificates are required by the IMO. Northern Marine will be required to renew these documents of compliance and safety management certificates annually. Noncompliance with the ISM Code and other IMO regulations may subject the shipowner or bareboat charterer to increased liability, may lead to decreases in available insurance coverage for affected vessels and may result in the denial of access to, or detention in, some ports. For example, the U.S. Coast Guard and European Union authorities have indicated that vessels not in compliance with the ISM Code will be prohibited from trading in U.S. and European Union ports. Although the United States is not a party to these conventions, many countries have ratified and follow the liability and compensation regime plan adopted by the IMO and set out in the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage. This convention, originally from 1969, was amended and updated in 1992, with the 1992 Civil Liability Convention coming into force on May 30, 1996. As of December 1, 2006 some 115 States are parties to 1992 Civil Liability Convention. This Convention applies where a discharge of persistent oil causes pollution damage in the territorial waters or to the coastline of a State which is a party to it. If so the registered owner is strictly liable, subject to certain complete defenses, for the pollution damage, with the limit of liability dependent upon the gross tonnage of the vessel in question. For vessels of 5,000 to 140,000 gross tons (a unit of measurement for the total enclosed spaces within a vessel), liability is limited to approximately $6.76 million plus $946 for each additional gross ton over 5,000. For vessels of over 140,000 gross tons, liability is limited to approximately $134 million. The Convention limits are expressed in Special Drawing Rights (SDR) which are calculated by reference to a basket of currencies, the figures quoted are based on the SDR/USD exchange rate as at January 5, 2007. Under the 1969 Convention, the right to limit liability is forfeited where the spill is caused by the owner’s actual fault. Under the 1992 Protocol, a shipowner cannot limit liability where the spill is caused by the owner’s intentional or reckless conduct. Vessels trading to states that are parties to these conventions must provide evidence of insurance covering the liability of the owner. In jurisdictions where the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage has not been adopted, various legislative schemes or common law govern, and liability is imposed either on the basis of fault or in a manner similar to that convention. We believe that our protection and indemnity insurance covers the liability under the plan adopted by the IMO. U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990 and Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act The United States regulates the tanker industry with an extensive regulatory and liability regime for environmental protection and cleanup of oil spills, consisting primarily of the U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, or CERCLA. OPA affects all owners and operators whose vessels trade with the United States or its territories or possessions, or whose vessels operate in the waters of the United States, which include the U.S. territorial sea and the 200 nautical mile exclusive economic zone around the United States. CERCLA applies to the discharge of hazardous substances (other than oil) whether on land or at sea. Both OPA and CERCLA impact our operations. Under OPA, vessel owners, operators and bareboat charterers are “responsible parties” who are jointly, severally and strictly liable (unless the spill results solely from the act or omission of a third party, an act of God or an act of war) for all containment and clean-up costs and other damages arising from oil spills from their vessels. These other damages include: • natural resource damages and related assessment costs; • real and personal property damages; 18 Table of Contents • net loss of taxes, royalties, rents, profits or earnings capacity; • net cost of public services necessitated by a spill response, such as protection from fire, safety or health hazards; and • loss of subsistence use of natural resources. OPA limits the liability of responsible parties to the greater of $1,900 per gross ton or $16 million per tanker that is over 3,000 gross tons, subject to possible adjustment for inflation. The act specifically permits individual states to impose their own liability regimes with regard to oil pollution incidents occurring within their boundaries, and some states have enacted legislation providing for unlimited liability for discharge of pollutants within their waters. In some cases, states that have enacted this type of legislation have not yet issued implementing regulations defining tanker owners’ responsibilities under these laws. CERCLA, which applies to owners and operators of vessels, contains a similar liability regime and provides for cleanup, removal and natural resource damages. Liability under CERCLA is limited to the greater of $300 per gross ton or $5 million. These limits of liability do not apply, however, where the incident is caused by violation of applicable U.S. federal safety, construction or operating regulations, or by the responsible party’s gross negligence or willful misconduct. These limits do not apply if the responsible party fails or refuses to report the incident or to cooperate and assist in connection with the substance removal activities. OPA and CERCLA each preserve the right to recover damages under existing law, including maritime tort law. OPA also requires owners and operators of vessels to establish and maintain with the U.S. Coast Guard evidence of financial responsibility sufficient to meet the limit of their potential strict liability under the act. The U.S. Coast Guard has enacted regulations requiring evidence of financial responsibility consistent with the combined maximum limits of liability described above for OPA and CERCLA. Under the regulations, evidence of financial responsibility may be demonstrated by insurance, surety bond, self-insurance, guaranty or an alternative method subject to approval by the Director of the U.S. Coast Guard National Pollution Funds Center. Under OPA regulations, an owner or operator of more than one tanker is required to demonstrate evidence of financial responsibility for the entire fleet in an amount equal only to the financial responsibility requirement of the tanker having the greatest maximum strict liability under OPA and CERCLA. Northern Marine has provided the requisite guarantees and has received certificates of financial responsibility from the U.S. Coast Guard for each of our tankers required to have one. Northern Marine has arranged pollution liability insurance coverage for each of our tankers in the amount of $1.0 billion per occurrence. However, a catastrophic spill could exceed the insurance coverage available, in which event there could be a material adverse effect on our business, on the Charterers’ business, which could impair the Charterers’ ability to make payments to us under our Charters, and on Northern Marine’s business, which could impair Northern Marine’s ability to manage our Vessels. Under OPA, oil tankers as to which a contract for construction or major conversion was put in place after June 30, 1990 are required to have double hulls. In addition, oil tankers without double hulls will not be permitted to come to U.S. ports or trade in U.S. waters by 2015. All of our Vessels have double hulls. OPA also amended the Federal Water Pollution Control Act to require that owners or operators of tankers operating in the waters of the United States must file vessel response plans with the U.S. Coast Guard, and their tankers are required to operate in compliance with their U.S. Coast Guard approved plans. These response plans must, among other things: • address a “worst case” scenario and identify and ensure, through contract or other approved means, the availability of necessary private response resources to respond to a “worst case discharge;” • describe crew training and drills; and • identify a qualified individual with full authority to implement removal actions. Vessel response plans for our tankers operating in the waters of the United States have been approved by the U.S. Coast Guard. In addition, the U.S. Coast Guard has announced it intends to propose similar regulations 19 Table of Contents requiring certain vessels to prepare response plans for the release of hazardous substances. Northern Marine is responsible for ensuring that our Vessels comply with any additional regulations. OPA does not prevent individual states from imposing their own liability regimes with respect to oil pollution incidents occurring within their boundaries. In fact, most U.S. states that border a navigable waterway have enacted environmental pollution laws that impose strict liability on a person for removal costs and damages resulting from a discharge of oil or a release of a hazardous substance. These laws may be more stringent than U.S. federal law. European Union Tanker Restrictions In July 2003, in response to the m.t. Prestige oil spill in November 2002, the European Union adopted legislation that prohibits all single hull tankers used for the transport of oil from entering into its ports or offshore terminals by 2010. The European Union, following the lead of certain European Union nations such as Italy and Spain, has also banned all single hull tankers carrying heavy grades of oil from entering or leaving its ports or offshore terminals or anchoring in areas under its jurisdiction. Commencing in 2005, certain single hull tankers above 15 years of age also became restricted from entering or leaving European Union ports or offshore terminals and anchoring in areas under European Union jurisdiction. The European Union is also considering legislation that would: (1) ban manifestly sub-standard vessels (defined as those over 15 years old that have been detained by port authorities at least twice in a six-month period) from European waters and create an obligation of port states to inspect vessels posing a high risk to maritime safety or the marine environment; and (2) provide the European Union with greater authority and control over classification societies, including the ability to seek to suspend or revoke the authority of negligent societies. It is impossible to predict what legislation or additional regulations, if any, may be promulgated by the European Union or any other country or authority. Vessel Security Regulations Since the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, there have been a variety of initiatives intended to enhance vessel security. On November 25, 2002, the Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002, or MTSA, came into effect. To implement certain portions of the MTSA, in July 2003, the U.S. Coast Guard issued regulations requiring the implementation of certain security requirements aboard vessels operating in waters subject to the jurisdiction of the United States. Similarly, in December 2002, amendments to the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, or SOLAS, created a new chapter of the convention dealing specifically with maritime security. The new chapter became effective in July 2004 and imposes various detailed security obligations on vessels and port authorities, most of which are contained in the newly created International Ship and Port Facilities Security Code, or ISPS Code. The ISPS Code is designed to protect ports and international shipping against terrorism. After July 1, 2004, to trade internationally, a vessel must attain an International Ship Security Certificate from a recognized security organization approved by the vessels flag state. Among the various requirements are: • on-board installation of automatic identification systems, or AIS, to provide a means for the automatic transmission of safety-related information from among similarly equipped ships and shore stations, including information on a ship’s identity, position, course, speed and navigational status; • on-board installation of ship security alert systems, which do not sound on the vessel but only alerts the authorities on shore; • the development of vessel security plans; • ship identification number to be permanently marked on a vessel’s hull; • a continuous synopsis record kept onboard showing a vessel’s history including, name of the ship and of the state whose flag the ship is entitled to fly, the date on which the ship was registered with that state, the ship’s identification number, the port at which the ship is registered and the name of the registered owners and their registered addresses; and • compliance with flag state security certification requirements. The U.S. Coast Guard regulations, intended to align with international maritime security standards, exempt non-U.S. tankers from MTSA vessel security measures provided such vessels have on board, by July 1, 2004, a valid 20 Table of Contents International Ship Security Certificate that attests to the vessel’s compliance with SOLAS security requirements and the ISPS Code. Northern Marine has implemented the various security measures addressed by the MTSA, SOLAS and the ISPS Code and all of our tankers are in compliance with these applicable security requirements. Employees As of December 31, 2007, we had 2 employees. Our employees are not represented by any collective bargaining agreements and we have never experienced a work stoppage. We believe that our employee relations are good. Executive Officer of the Registrant Our executive officer, his age and his positions as of February 28, 2008 is as follows: Edward Terino, 54, is our Chief Executive Officer, President and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Terino has over 10 years of experience as a senior level executive of publicly traded companies. Since April 2007, Mr. Terino has served on the board of directors of S1 Corporation, which develops and markets customer interaction software for financial and payments services primarily to banks, credit unions, insurance companies, retailers and telecommunication companies. From October 2001 until June 2005, Mr. Terino was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Art Technology Group, Inc., a provider of Internet-based e-commerce and customer service software. From April 1999 to September 2001, he was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Applix, Inc., a provider of business intelligence software solutions. Mr. Terino has also spent 11 years at Houghton Mifflin in various senior financial management position and 9 years at Deloitte and Touche in their consulting services group. Mr. Terino is a citizen and resident of the United States. We maintain a website at www.arlingtontankers.com. The information contained on our website is not included as a part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make available free of charge through our website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such material with, or furnishing such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. Further, we will provide free copies of any of our SEC filings upon request. Copies of our filings with the SEC may be requested through the “investor relations” section of our website, or by calling our offices at 441-292-4456. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following important factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this report or presented elsewhere by management from time to time. Company Specific Risk Factors We cannot assure you that we will pay any dividends We currently intend to pay dividends on a quarterly basis in amounts determined by our Board of Directors. We believe our dividends will be substantially equal to the charterhire received by us under the Charters, less cash expenses and any cash reserves established by our Board of Directors. Such expenses consist primarily of fees under our ship management agreements, directors’ fees, salaries and benefits of our employees, payment of interest under our secured credit facility, and other administrative costs and other expenses. There can be no assurance that we will not have other cash expenses, including extraordinary expenses, which could include the costs of claims and related litigation expenses. There can be no assurance that we will not have additional expenses or liabilities, that the amounts currently anticipated for the items set forth above will not increase, that we will not have to fund any required capital expenditures for our Vessels or that our Board of Directors will not determine to establish additional cash reserves or change our dividend policy. Other than the fees under our ship management agreements, none of our fees or expenses is fixed. The amount of potential future dividends set forth in “Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Dividend Policy” represents only an estimate of future dividends 21 Table of Contents based on our charter contracts, ship management agreements, an estimate of our other expenses and the other matters and assumptions set forth therein and assumes that other than our ship management expenses, none of our expenses increase during the periods presented in the table. The amount of future dividends, if any, could be affected by various factors, including the loss of a Vessel, the number of days a Vessel is off-hire, the timing of the commencement or expiration of any sub-charters for our Vessels, the effect of global demand for tanker capacity on Additional Hire calculations, required capital expenditures, cash reserves established by our Board of Directors, increased or unanticipated expenses, a change in our dividend policy, increased borrowings, more restrictive debt covenants, higher interest rates, principal amortization requirements or future issuances of securities, many of which are beyond our control. As a result, the amount of dividends actually paid may vary from period to period and such variations may be material. The amount of dividends we may be able to pay can also be affected by the terms of our current, or any future, indebtedness. Our existing secured credit facility provides that we may not pay dividends if an event of default under the facility agreement has occurred and continues or if the market value of our Vessels is less than 140% of our borrowings under the facility (or, if at the time of the proposed dividend, all of our Vessels are on time charter for a remaining period of 12 months, less than 125% of the loan amount). The terms of any future indebtedness we may enter into, including indebtedness that refinances our existing secured credit facility, may have stricter restrictions on our ability to pay dividends. Furthermore, higher interest rates or different repayment terms of future indebtedness, such as principal amortization requirements, may reduce the amount of cash that we would have available to pay future dividends. The declaration of dividends is subject to current and future debt covenants, compliance with Bermuda law and is subject at all times to the discretion of our Board of Directors. There can be no assurance that dividends will be paid in the amounts anticipated or at all. We are highly dependent on the Charterers and their guarantors, Stena and Concordia All of our Vessels are chartered to the Charterers, which are subsidiaries of Concordia and Stena. The Charterers’ payments to us under these Charters are our sole source of revenue. We are highly dependent on the performance by the Charterers of their obligations under the Charters and by their guarantors, Stena and Concordia, of their obligations under their respective guarantees. Any failure by the Charterers or the guarantors to perform their obligations would materially and adversely affect our business and financial position. Our shareholders do not have any recourse against the Charterers or the guarantors. If we cannot refinance our secured credit facility, or in the event of a default under the facility, we may have to sell our Vessels, which may leave no additional funds for distributions to shareholders Under the terms of the Loan Agreement providing for our secured credit facility, we are required to repay the total amount outstanding at maturity, January 5, 2011. Borrowings under the facility are guaranteed by each of our Vessel Subsidiaries and are secured by mortgages over all of our Vessels; assignments of earnings, insurances and requisition compensation with respect to our Vessels; and assignments of our interests in the Charters and our ship management agreements. Whether or not the Charterers renew the Charters, the Loan Agreement will mature in January 2011 and we will be obligated to repay or refinance the total amount due under the loan at that time. There is no assurance that we will be able to repay or refinance this amount. In addition, even if the Charterers renew the Charters for one or more of our Vessels, if we are unable to refinance our secured credit facility on acceptable terms, we may be forced to attempt to sell some or all of our Vessels. Interest rates may be higher than current rates at the time we seek to refinance our secured credit facility and the prevailing market terms for loans such as the type we would need to refinance our secured credit may require periodic payments to amortize the outstanding principal. Such higher rates, principal amortization requirements or other terms could prevent our ability to complete a refinancing or could adversely impact our future results, including the amount of cash available for future dividends. In such event, we may conclude that such a refinancing is not on acceptable terms. In addition, in the event of a default under our secured credit facility all of our Vessels could be sold to satisfy amounts due to the lender under our secured credit facility. Depending on the market value for our Vessels at the time, it is possible that after payment of the amounts outstanding under our secured credit facility there would not be any funds to distribute to our shareholders. In addition, under our bye-laws, any sale of a Vessel would require the approval of at least a 22 Table of Contents majority of our shareholders voting at a meeting. Furthermore, our current Charters provide that we may not sell the related Vessel without the Charterer’s consent, which consent may be withheld in the Charterer’s sole discretion. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we would be able to sell a Vessel at a time when we would need to do so to satisfy the obligations under our secured credit facility. Because we currently intend to distribute dividends to our shareholders in an amount substantially equal to our charterhire, less cash expenses and any cash reserves established by our Board of Directors, we do not believe we will be able to repay our secured credit facility in January 2011 without either refinancing our debt or selling some or all of our Vessels. As a result, we anticipate that we will seek to refinance our secured credit facility at or prior to its maturity. There can be no assurance that we will be able to do so on acceptable terms. We may not be able to re-charter our Vessels profitably after their Charters expire, unless they are extended at the option of the Charterers Two of our Charters expire in 2008, four expire in 2009 and two expire in 2010. We have an option to extend the terms of the Charters on our two Additional Vessels. However, we will not be eligible to earn Additional Hire with respect to the Additional Vessels if we make this election. The Charterers also have options to extend the terms of the Charters for all of our Vessels. The Charterers have the sole discretion as to exercising their options. Notice that either party is exercising its option to extend the term of a Charter is required to be delivered no later than six months prior to the expiration of the charter period in effect at that time. We cannot predict whether the Charterers will exercise any of their extension options under one or more of the Charters. The Charterers do not owe any fiduciary or other duty to us or our shareholders in deciding whether to exercise their extension options, and the Charterers’ decision may be contrary to our interests or those of our shareholders. We cannot predict any of the factors that the Charterers will consider in deciding whether to exercise any of their extension options under the Charters. It is likely, however, that the Charterers would consider a variety of factors, which may include the age and specifications of the particular Vessel, whether a Vessel is surplus or suitable to the Charterers’ requirements and whether competitive charterhire rates are available to the Charterers in the open market at that time. If the Charterers decide not to extend our current Charters, we may not be able to re-charter our Vessels with terms similar to the terms of our Charters, or at all. We may also directly employ the Vessels on the spot charter market, which is subject to greater rate fluctuation than the time charter market. Under our ship management agreements, Northern Marine, a wholly owned subsidiary of Stena, is responsible for all of the technical and operational management of our Vessels for a fixed management fee that increases 5% annually. Northern Marine has also agreed to indemnify us against specified off-hire and reduced hire for our Vessels in excess of five days per year. However, this indemnification only extends to the amount payable to us as Basic Hire and would not extend to any amounts that would otherwise be payable to us as Additional Hire if the Vessels were not off-hire. Our ship management agreements with Northern Marine may be terminated by either party if the relevant Charter is terminated or expires. If our ship management agreements with Northern Marine were to terminate, we may not be able to obtain similar fixed rate terms or indemnification for off-hire and reduced hire periods from another ship manager. If we receive lower charter rates under replacement charters, are unable to re-charter all of our Vessels or we incur greater expenses under replacement management agreements, the amounts available, if any, to pay distributions to our shareholders may be significantly reduced or eliminated. Under our Charters, there is no obligation to pay Additional Hire, during any period when the obligation to pay Basic Hire is suspended under the Charter if due to technical reasons the Vessel is off-hire, unless the Vessel is off-hire as a result of a class condition or recommendation determined by the Vessel’s classification society during the inspection of the Vessel undertaken by us in connection with the purchase of the Vessel and such condition or recommendation cannot be remedied or complied with during a regularly scheduled drydocking without increasing the duration of such drydocking. 23 Table of Contents Concordia and Stena’s ownership interest in our company can have significant influence over the Company, including the outcome of shareholder votes and our ability to conduct future business or modify existing agreements with Stena or Concordia Based on their filings with the SEC, as of November 19, 2007, Stena and Concordia directly and indirectly owned an aggregate of approximately 18.0% of our outstanding common shares. As a result of their share ownership and for so long as either Stena or Concordia directly or indirectly owns a significant percentage of our outstanding common shares, Stena and Concordia are able to influence us, including the outcome of any shareholder vote, such as the election of directors. In addition, as a result of Stena’s purchase of additional common shares in 2007, Stena and Concordia may be considered “interested shareholders” for purposes of our bye-laws. Under our “interested shareholder” bye-law, in addition to any other approval that may be required by applicable law, any “business combination” with an interested shareholder within a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested shareholder must be approved by our board and authorized at an annual or special general meeting by the affirmative vote of at least 662/3% of our issued and outstanding voting shares that are not owned by the interested shareholder, unless: • prior to the date of the transaction that resulted in the shareholder becoming an interested shareholder, our board of directors approved either the business combination or the transaction that resulted in the shareholder becoming an interested shareholder; or • upon consummation of the transaction that resulted in the shareholder becoming an interested shareholder, the interested shareholder owned at least 85% of our issued and outstanding voting shares at the time the transaction commenced. For purposes of these provisions, “business combinations” include specified mergers, amalgamations, consolidations and specified sales, leases, exchanges, mortgages, pledges, transfers and other dispositions of assets having an aggregate market value equal to 10% or more of either the aggregate market value of all of our assets determined on a consolidated basis or the aggregate market value of all of our issued and outstanding shares. Accordingly, our interested shareholder bye-law may make it more difficult for us to conduct future business or modify existing agreements with Stena or Concordia. We are leveraged and subject to restrictions in our financing agreements that impose constraints on our operating and financing flexibility We have a secured credit facility under which we have borrowed $229.5 million as of December 31, 2007, to finance a portion of the cash purchase price for our Additional Vessels and refinance pre-existing debt. We are required to apply a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of interest on borrowings under the facility. Our facility, which is secured by, among other things, mortgages on our Vessels, pledges of our time charters and assignments of earnings, insurances and requisition compensation in respect to our Vessels, requires that we comply with various operating covenants and maintain certain financial ratios including that the market value of our Vessels exceeds 125% of the total facility amount outstanding and that the market value of our Vessels exceeds 140% of our borrowings (or 125% if the loan amount at the time of such dividend all of our Vessels are on time charter for a remaining period of at least 12 months) in order for us to pay dividends. The facility also requires that Northern Marine remain as technical manager for our Vessels. We have a floating rate of interest under our secured credit facility. However, we have entered into an interest rate swap agreement that effectively fixes the interest rate at 5.7325%, or 5.8325% per year, based upon the ratio of the fair market value of the Company’s Vessels to the amount outstanding under the loan facility, through maturity of the facility in January 2011. By utilizing this interest rate swap, we potentially forego benefits that might result from declines in interest rates. We are a holding company, and we depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us in order to satisfy our financial and other obligations We are a holding company, and have no significant assets other than the equity interests in our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries own all of our Vessels, and payments under our Charters are made to our subsidiaries. As a result, our 24 Table of Contents ability to pay dividends depends on the performance of our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. The ability of a subsidiary to make these distributions could be affected by a claim or other action by a third party, including a creditor, or by Bermuda law which regulates the payment of dividends by companies. If we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries, we will not be able to pay dividends unless we obtain funds from other sources. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain funds from other sources. U.S. tax authorities could treat us as a “passive foreign investment company,” which could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders A foreign corporation will be treated as a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of “passive income” or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation’s assets produce or are held for the production of those types of “passive income.” For purposes of these tests, “passive income” includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute “passive income.” U.S. shareholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. Based on our method of operation, we do not believe that we were a PFIC for our most recent taxable year or that we will become a PFIC with respect to any future taxable year. In this regard, we treat the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our time chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, we believe that our income from our time chartering activities does not constitute “passive income,” and the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income do not constitute passive assets. There is, however, no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our method of operation. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, or a court of law will accept our position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are a PFIC. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we would not constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if there were to be changes in the nature and extent of our operations. If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, our U.S. shareholders would face adverse U.S. tax consequences. Under the PFIC rules, unless those shareholders make an election available under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, such shareholders would be liable to pay U.S. federal income tax at the then prevailing income tax rates on ordinary income plus interest upon certain distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our common shares, as if the distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the shareholder’s holding period of our common shares. In addition, a step-up in the tax basis of our shares may not be available upon the death of an individual shareholder, and the preferential U.S. federal income tax rates currently applicable to qualified dividend income of certain U.S. investors would not apply. Our operating income could fail to qualify for an exemption from U.S. federal income taxation, which would reduce our cash flow A foreign corporation is subject to U.S. federal income taxation at a rate of 4% on its U.S. source shipping income, including, unless exempt as income from the international operation of ships, 50% of its shipping income that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends in the United States. Under Code Section 883 and applicable U.S. Treasury regulations, a foreign corporation’s U.S. source income from the international operation of ships is exempt from U.S. federal income taxation if: (1) the corporation is organized in a foreign country that grants an “equivalent exemption” from taxation to U.S. corporations and (2) either (A) its common shares are “primarily and regularly traded on an established securities market” in that same foreign country, in the United States or in another country that grants an “equivalent exemption” to U.S. corporations or (B) more than 50% of the value of its shares is treated as owned, directly or indirectly, for at least half of the number of days in the taxable year by one or more “qualified shareholders.” 25 Table of Contents Bermuda, our country of organization, is a foreign country that grants an “equivalent exemption” from taxation to U.S. corporations with respect to income from the international operation of ships. In addition, our common shares are currently “primarily and regularly traded” on the New York Stock Exchange, which is an established securities market in the United States. Therefore, we believe that our time chartering income qualifies for the exemption from U.S. federal income taxation. Our qualification for the exemption, however, is based upon certain complex factual determinations that are not completely within our control and, therefore, there can be no assurance that we will qualify for the exemption either now or in the future. If we were not to qualify for the exemption, our income from the international operation of ships, to the extent characterized as U.S. source income, would be subject to a 4% U.S. federal income tax on a gross basis without allowance for deduction. In addition, if we were to generate U.S. source income of a type that does not qualify for the exemption, such as income that is attributable to transportation that both begins and ends in the United States, it would also be subject to U.S. federal income taxation. If we were subject to U.S. federal income taxation, our cash available for distributions to shareholders would be correspondingly reduced. U.S. investors who own our common shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests than U.S. investors who own shares of a Delaware corporation The Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda, which applies to us, differs in certain material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders. Set forth below is a summary of certain significant provisions of the Companies Act which differ in certain respects from provisions of Delaware corporate law. Because the following statements are summaries, they do not discuss all aspects of Bermuda law that may be relevant to us and our shareholders. Interested Directors. Bermuda law and our bye-laws provide that if a director has an interest in a material contract or proposed material contract with us or any of our subsidiaries or has a material interest in any person that is a party to such a contract, the director must disclose the nature of that interest at the first opportunity either at a meeting of directors or in writing to the directors. Our bye-laws provide that, after a director has made such a declaration of interest, he is allowed to be counted for purposes of determining whether a quorum is present and to vote on a transaction in which he has an interest, unless disqualified from doing so by the chairman of the relevant board meeting. Under Delaware law such transaction would not be voidable if: • the material facts as to such interested director’s relationship or interests were disclosed or were known to the Board of Directors and the board had in good faith authorized the transaction by the affirmative vote of a majority of the disinterested directors; • such material facts were disclosed or were known to the stockholders entitled to vote on such transaction and the transaction was specifically approved in good faith by vote of the majority of shares entitled to vote thereon; or • the transaction was fair as to the corporation as of the time it was authorized, approved or ratified. Under Delaware law, the interested director could be held liable for a transaction in which the director derived an improper personal benefit. Shareholders’ Suits. Class actions and derivative actions are generally not available to shareholders under Bermuda law. The Bermuda courts, however, would ordinarily be expected to permit a shareholder to commence an action in the name of a company to remedy a wrong to the company where the act complained of is alleged to be beyond the corporate power of the company or illegal, or would result in the violation of the company’s memorandum of association or bye-laws. Furthermore, consideration would be given by a Bermuda court to acts that are alleged to constitute a fraud against the minority shareholders or, for instance, where an act requires the approval of a greater percentage of the company’s shareholders than that which actually approved it. When the affairs of a company are being conducted in a manner which is oppressive or prejudicial to the interests of some part of the shareholders, one or more shareholders may apply to the Supreme Court of Bermuda, which may make such order as it sees fit, including an order regulating the conduct of the company’s affairs in the future or ordering the purchase of the shares of any shareholders by other shareholders or by the company. 26 Table of Contents Our bye-laws contain a provision by virtue of which our shareholders waive any claim or right of action that they have, both individually and on our behalf, against any director or officer in relation to any action or failure to take action by such director or officer, except in respect of any fraud or dishonesty of such director or officer. Class actions and derivative actions generally are available to stockholders under Delaware law for, among other things, breach of fiduciary duty, corporate waste and actions not taken in accordance with applicable law. In such actions, the court has discretion to permit the winning party to recover attorneys’ fees incurred in connection with such action. Indemnification of Directors. Section 98 of the Companies Act provides generally that a Bermuda company may indemnify its directors, officers and auditors against any liability which by virtue of any rule of law would otherwise be imposed on them in respect of any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust, except in cases where such liability arises from fraud or dishonesty of which such director, officer or auditor may be guilty in relation to the company. Section 98 further provides that a Bermuda company may indemnify its directors, officers and auditors against any liability incurred by them in defending any proceedings, whether civil or criminal, in which judgment is awarded in their favor or in which they are acquitted or granted relief by the Supreme Court of Bermuda pursuant to section 281 of the Companies Act. We have adopted provisions in our bye-laws that provide that we shall indemnify our officers and directors in respect of their actions and omissions, except in respect of their fraud or dishonesty. Our bye-laws provide that the shareholders waive all claims or rights of action that they might have, individually or in right of the company, against any of the company’s directors or officers for any act or failure to act in the performance of such director’s or officer’s duties, except in respect of any fraud or dishonesty of such director or officer. Section 98A of the Companies Act permits us to purchase and maintain insurance for the benefit of any officer or director in respect of any loss or liability attaching to him in respect of any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust, whether or not we may otherwise indemnify such officer or director. We have purchased and maintain a directors’ and officers’ liability policy for such a purpose. Under Delaware law, a corporation may indemnify a director or officer of the corporation against expenses (including attorneys’ fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred in defense of an action, suit or proceeding by reason of such position if such director or officer acted in good faith and in a manner he or she reasonably believed to be in or not be opposed to the best interests of the corporation and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, such director or officer had no reasonable cause to believe his or her conduct was unlawful. Bermuda law and our bye-laws permit our Board of Directors to establish preference shares having terms which could reduce or eliminate dividends payable to our common shareholders Bermuda law and our bye-laws permit our Board of Directors to issue preference shares with dividend rates, relative voting rights, conversion or exchange rights, redemption rights, liquidation rights and other relative participation, optional or other special rights, qualifications, limitations or restrictions as may be determined by resolution of the board without shareholder approval. Such preference shares could have terms that provide for the payment of dividends prior to the payment of dividends in respect of the common shares. As a result, the issuance of these preference shares could reduce or eliminate dividends payable to common shareholders. Our bye-laws restrict shareholders from bringing certain legal action against our officers and directors Our bye-laws contain a broad waiver by our shareholders of any claim or right of action, both individually and on our behalf, against any of our officers or directors. The waiver applies to any action taken by an officer or director, or the failure of an officer or director to take any action, in the performance of his or her duties, except with respect to any matter involving any fraud or dishonesty on the part of the officer or director. This waiver limits the right of shareholders to assert claims against our officers and directors unless the act or failure to act involves fraud or dishonesty. 27 Table of Contents We have anti-takeover provisions in our bye-laws that may discourage a change of control Our bye-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our Board of Directors. These provisions provide for: • a classified Board of Directors with staggered three-year terms, elected without cumulative voting; • directors can only be removed for cause and only with the affirmative vote of holders of at least 80% of the common shares issued and outstanding; • advance notice for nominations of directors by shareholders and for shareholders to include matters to be considered at annual meetings; • our Board of Directors to determine the powers, preferences and rights of our preference shares and to issue the preference shares without shareholder approval; and • a requirement that amalgamations, sales of assets and certain other transactions with persons owning 15% or more of our voting securities, which we refer to as interested shareholders, be approved by holders of at least 66% of our issued and outstanding voting shares not owned by the interested shareholder, subject to certain exceptions. These provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if the third party’s offer may be considered beneficial by many shareholders. As a result, shareholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares. Industry Specific Risk Factors The highly cyclical nature of the tanker industry may lead to volatile changes in charter rates and vessel values which may adversely affect our earnings If the tanker industry, which has been highly cyclical, is depressed in the future when our Charters expire or at a time when we may want to sell a Vessel, our earnings and available cash flow may decrease. Our ability to re-charter our Vessels on the expiration or termination of the Charters and the charter rates that we may receive under any renewal or replacement charters will depend upon, among other things, economic conditions in the tanker market at that time. Fluctuations in charter rates and vessel values result from changes in the supply and demand for tanker capacity and changes in the supply and demand for oil and oil products. For example, charter rates and vessel values were at a high level during 2004. Charter rates declined from that high level during 2005, and 2006, and have remained at these lower rates during 2007. There can be no assurance that charter rates and Vessel values will not decline further in the future. Our Vessels are operated under time charters with the Charterers. We receive a fixed minimum daily base charter rate and may receive Additional Hire under the Charters. Additional Hire is not guaranteed under our Charters. Additional Hire, if any, is paid quarterly in arrears. The amount of Additional Hire is subject to variation depending on the charterhire received by the Charterers under time charters, spot charters and on general tanker market conditions. The amount of Additional Hire that we may earn is based on a formula of notional voyages and expenses on routes that we agreed to with the Charterers. The payment of Additional Hire, if any, has no correlation to our potential future time charter equivalent earnings. If a Vessel is off-hire, that Vessel is not eligible to earn Additional Hire during the off-hire period. We cannot assure you that we will receive Additional Hire for any quarter, except during the remaining term of the Sun International sub-charter for the Stena Vision which is due to expire within 30 days of July 31, 2008. 28 Table of Contents Factors beyond our control may adversely affect the value of our Vessels The factors affecting the supply and demand for tanker vessels are outside of our control, and the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions are unpredictable and may adversely affect the value of our Vessels. The factors that influence the demand for tanker capacity include: • demand for oil and oil products, which affect the need for tanker capacity; • global and regional economic and political conditions which among other things, could impact the supply of oil as well as trading patterns and the demand for various types of vessels; • changes in the production of crude oil, particularly by OPEC and other key producers, which impact the need for tanker capacity; • developments in international trade; • changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including changes in the distances that cargoes are transported; • environmental concerns and regulations; • weather; and • competition from alternative sources of energy. The factors that influence the supply of tanker capacity include: • the number of newbuilding deliveries; • restrictions on vessels from entering into certain trades based upon their age, safety or other factors; • the scrapping rate of older vessels; and • the number of vessels that are out of service. An over supply of new vessels may adversely affect charter rates and vessel values If the number of new ships delivered exceeds the number of tankers being scrapped and lost, tanker capacity will increase. In addition, according to Clarkson Research Studies Ltd., the total newbuilding order book for vessels with capacity of 20,000 dwt or more scheduled to enter the fleet through 2010 currently equals 29% of the existing fleet and we cannot assure you that the order book will not increase further in proportion to the existing fleet. If the supply of tanker capacity increases and the demand for tanker capacity does not increase correspondingly, charter rates could materially decline and the value of our Vessels could be adversely affected. Terrorist attacks and international hostilities can affect the tanker industry, which could adversely affect our business Additional attacks like those of September 11, 2001 or longer-lasting war or international hostilities, including those currently underway in Iraq and the Middle East, could damage the world economy, adversely affect the availability of and demand for crude oil and petroleum products and adversely affect our ability to re-charter our Vessels on the expiration or termination of the Charters and the charter rates payable under any renewal or replacement charters. We conduct our operations outside the United States, and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by changing economic, political and government conditions in the countries and regions where our Vessels are employed. Moreover, we operate in a sector of the economy that is likely to be adversely impacted by the effects of political instability, terrorist or other attacks, war or international hostilities. 29 Table of Contents The value of our Vessels may fluctuate and adversely affect our liquidity and may result in breaches under our secured credit facility Tanker values have generally experienced high volatility. Investors can expect the fair market value of our tankers to fluctuate, depending on general economic and market conditions affecting the tanker industry and competition from other shipping companies, types and sizes of vessels and other modes of transportation. In addition, although our Panamax and Product tankers were built in 2004 and 2005 and our V-MAX tankers were built in 2001, they generally decline in value as they age. These factors will affect the value of our Vessels at the termination of their Charters or earlier at the time of any sale, which during the term of the Charters will require the consent of the Charterer and the lenders under our secured credit facility. Borrowings under our credit agreement bear interest at LIBOR plus a 75 basis points margin, which would increase to 85 basis points if the ratio of the fair market value of the Company’s Vessels to the amount outstanding under the loan facility falls below 2.0. The increased interest margin is equivalent to approximately $229,500 per year in increased interest costs in the event the ratio falls below 2.0. In the event of the sale or loss of a Vessel, we might be required to repay a percentage of the loan earlier than we planned or increase our payments under the facility, which could affect our financial condition and ability to make payments to our shareholders. Declining tanker values could adversely affect our ability to refinance our secured credit facility at its maturity in January 2011 and thereby adversely impact our business and operations and liquidity. Due to the cyclical nature of the tanker market, if for any reason we sell tankers at a time when tanker prices have fallen, the sale may be at less than the tanker’s carrying amount on our financial statements, with the result that we would also incur a loss and a reduction in earnings. We operate in the highly competitive international tanker market which could affect our position if the Charterers do not renew our Charters The operation of tanker vessels and transportation of crude oil and petroleum products are extremely competitive. Competition arises primarily from other tanker owners, including major oil companies, as well as independent tanker companies, some of which have substantially larger fleets and substantially greater resources than we do. Competition for the transportation of oil and oil products can be intense and depends on price, location, size, age, condition and the acceptability of the tanker and its operators to the charterers. During the term of our Charters with the Charterers we are not exposed to the risk associated with this competition. However, if the Charterers do not exercise their options to renew the Charters, we will have to compete with other tanker owners, including major oil companies and independent tanker companies for charterers. Due in part to the fragmented tanker market, competitors with greater resources could enter and operate larger fleets through acquisitions or consolidations and may be able to offer better prices and fleets than us, which could result in our achieving lower revenues from our Vessels. Compliance with environmental laws or regulations may adversely affect our business The shipping industry is affected by numerous regulations in the form of international conventions, national, state and local laws and national and international regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which such tankers operate, as well as in the country or countries in which such tankers are registered. These regulations include the U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage of 1969, International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the IMO International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea of 1974, or SOLAS, the International Convention on Load Lines of 1966 and the U.S. Marine Transportation Security Act of 2002. In addition, vessel classification societies also impose significant safety and other requirements on our Vessels. We believe our tankers, two of which were built in 2005, four of which were built in 2004 and two of which were built in 2001, are maintained in compliance with present regulatory and class requirements relevant to areas in which they operate, and are operated in compliance with applicable safety and environmental laws and regulations. However, regulation of tankers, particularly in the areas of safety and environmental impact, may change in the future and require significant capital expenditures be incurred on our Vessels to keep them in compliance. Although the Charterers will be responsible for all capital expenditures required due to changes in law, classification society or regulatory requirements in an amount less than $100,000 per year per Vessel, all other required capital expenditures during the charter period will be split between us and the 30 Table of Contents applicable Charterer based on the remaining charter period and the remaining depreciation period of the Vessel, which is calculated as 25 years from the year the Vessel was built. The shipping industry has inherent operational risks, which may not be adequately covered by insurance Our tankers and their cargoes are at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as marine disasters, bad weather, mechanical failures, human error, war, terrorism, piracy and other circumstances or events. In addition, transporting crude oil across a wide variety of international jurisdictions creates a risk of business interruptions due to political circumstances in foreign countries, hostilities, labor strikes and boycotts, the potential for changes in tax rates or policies, and the potential for government expropriation of our Vessels. Any of these events may result in loss of revenues, increased costs and decreased cash flows to the Charterer, which could impair its ability to make payments to us under our Charters. In the event of a casualty to a vessel or other catastrophic event, we will rely on our insurance to pay the insured value of the vessel or the damages incurred. Under our ship management agreements, Northern Marine is responsible for obtaining insurance for our fleet against those risks that we believe the shipping industry commonly insures against. These insurances include marine hull and machinery insurance, protection and indemnity insurance, which includes pollution risks and crew insurances and war risk insurance. Northern Marine has also obtained off-hire insurance in respect of each of our Vessels. Currently, the amount of coverage for liability for pollution, spillage and leakage available to us on commercially reasonable terms through protection and indemnity associations and providers of excess coverage is $1 billion per vessel per occurrence. We cannot assure you that we will be adequately insured against all risks. Under the ship management agreements, Northern Marine performs all technical management, including crewing and providing insurance for a fixed management fee. However, we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates for our fleet in the future in the event our existing Charters are not renewed at the expiration of their terms. Additionally, our insurers may refuse to pay particular claims. Any significant loss or liability for which we are not insured could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. In addition, the loss of a Vessel would adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. Maritime claimants could arrest our tankers, which could interrupt the Charterers’ or our cash flow Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against that vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our Vessels could interrupt the Charterers’ or our cash flow and require us to pay a significant amount of money to have the arrest lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the “sister ship” theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant’s maritime lien and any “associated” vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert “sister ship” liability against one vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another vessel in our fleet. Governments could requisition our Vessels during a period of war or emergency without adequate compensation The government of the United Kingdom, the country under which our Bermuda flagged Vessels would fall, could requisition or seize our Vessels. Under requisition for title, a government takes control of a vessel and becomes its owner. Under requisition for hire, a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes its charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during periods of war or emergency. Although we would be entitled to compensation in the event of a requisition, the amount and timing of payment would be uncertain. Rising or high oil prices may affect demand for oil, and subsequently demand for oil tankers may fall. Crude oil and oil products are commodities that experience price volatility. Prices for these commodities are set in an open market. We are an independent transporter of cargoes of crude oil and oil products and have no control over the price of the cargoes that we carry. We depend on circumstances where there are suitable cargoes available 31 Table of Contents for our Vessels to transport. In a rising or high oil price environment, demand for crude oil and oil products may be reduced, which could reduce demand for our tanker Vessels. Such a reduction in demand for our tanker Vessels could adversely affect our results of operations, possibly materially. Risks Related To Our Common Shares If a significant number of our common shares are sold in the market, the market price of our common shares could significantly decline, even if our business is doing well The market price of our common shares could decline due to sales of a large number of shares in the market including sales of shares by our large shareholders, or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales or the perception that these sales could occur could also make it more difficult or impossible for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. Concordia, Stena and Fram were not eligible to sell the remaining shares that they held after our initial public offering until their lock-up agreements expired on August 1, 2005. We have entered into registration rights agreements with them that entitle them to have all or a portion of their remaining shares registered for sale in the public market following that lock-up period. In addition, these shares became eligible for sale into the public market pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act on November 10, 2005. Any sales under Rule 144 would be subject to certain volume and manner of sale limitations prescribed by the Rule. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 