Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risk factors described below and all other information contained in this Form 10-K, including our historical financial statements and related notes and schedule, before you decide to invest in our common stock. If any of the following risk factors actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose part or all of your investment. In addition, you should carefully consider the risk factors relating to the proposed merger between us and Indevus that are described in the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus filed by Indevus Pharmaceuticals with the SEC on January 29, 2007. Risks Related to Our Business We are largely dependent on the success of Vantas, our first product to be approved for commercial sale by the FDA, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully expand the commercialization of Vantas. We have invested and will invest a significant portion of our time and resources in the commercialization of Vantas, which was approved for commercial use by the FDA in October 2004. The commercial success of Vantas is dependent on many factors, including building and maintaining a focused sales force, effectively managing our co-promotion relationship with Indevus Pharmaceuticals, generating commercial sales, gaining acceptance of Vantas by patients and the medical community, and obtaining reimbursement from third party payors. All of our net product sales to date have been generated solely from sales of Vantas. Until our product candidates are approved for commercial use, our most significant source of revenue will be sales of Vantas. If we are unable to successfully expand the commercialization of Vantas, we may be required to cease or reduce our commercial and manufacturing operations. We have a history of operating losses and may not achieve or sustain profitability. The extent of our future operating losses or profits is highly uncertain, and we may not achieve or sustain profitability. Our product development and clinical activities will require significant continuing expenditures. Vantas is our only product that has been approved for commercial use by the FDA and that may generate any significant revenues. From our inception through December 31, 2006 we have incurred annual operating losses, and as of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $53.6 million. The majority of the deficit is attributable to research and development expenditures of $33.2 million, primarily for Vantas and Supprelin-LA. We may incur additional operating losses, as we continue our product development and clinical research, and acquire or in-license other pharmaceutical products. Although we expect our net product sales, together with borrowings under our line of credit and the proceeds from our initial public offering, to fund these expenses, we may not generate sufficient revenue from sales of Vantas to meet all of our expenses. We are dependent on single suppliers for certain services and raw materials, including histrelin, that are necessary for the manufacture of our products. If any of these suppliers fail or are unable to perform in a timely and satisfactory manner, we may be unable to manufacture Vantas or some of our product candidates, which could delay sales of Vantas and hinder research and development of our product candidates. We currently rely on single suppliers for histrelin, the active ingredient in Vantas and Supprelin-LA, for valrubicin, the active ingredient in Valstar, for our implantation devices and for sterilization services for our implants, including Vantas. We currently have no written agreements with certain of these suppliers. Although we have identified alternate sources for certain raw materials and services, these raw materials and services may not be immediately available to us. Further, even if these alternative raw materials are immediately available, they must first meet our internal specifications. Consequently, if any of our suppliers are unable or unwilling to supply us with these raw materials in sufficient quantities with the correct specifications, or provide services on commercially acceptable terms, we may not be able to manufacture Vantas or our product candidates in a timely manner or at all, which could delay the production or sale of Vantas and hinder the research and development of some of our product candidates. Our inability to obtain these raw materials and services for the manufacture of our implants may force us to cease or reduce operations. 28 We have previously experienced disruptions in our manufacturing of Vantas due to issues caused by our supply of histrelin, the active ingredient in Vantas, including a manufacturing disruption during the second and third quarters of 2005 that caused a material decrease in our sales for the third quarter of 2005 and may have an adverse impact on our sales of Vantas in the future and may have resulted in fewer re-implantations in 2006. Further interruptions in our manufacturing process for Vantas or our product candidates may have an adverse impact on our sales of Vantas and the development of our product candidates in the future. We have experienced two separate disruptions in our manufacturing of Vantas due to issues caused by our supply of histrelin, the active ingredient in Vantas. In the fourth quarter of 2004, we experienced difficulties processing histrelin in its raw, powder form. These difficulties delayed the manufacturing of Vantas for several weeks as our supplier reformulated the histrelin. In the second and third quarters of 2005, we experienced an issue with the histrelin used to produce five lots of Vantas. This issue, which was caused by the method by which our supplier formulated the histrelin, ultimately resulted in these five lots not meeting certain quality control specifications and caused a delay in production of approximately six weeks. We have resolved each of these issues and have developed additional specifications with our supplier of histrelin in an effort to ensure a more consistent supply of histrelin that meets our needs. However, the disruption we experienced in the second and third quarters of 2005 directly impacted our supply of Vantas in the third quarter of 2005 by limiting the amount of finished product available for sale in the quarter to three lots, or approximately 2,400 units. Our third quarter sales were 1,747 units, which was less than our sales in the first and second quarters of 2005, in which we sold 2,925 units and 3,974 units, respectively. The interruption in our supply of Vantas in the second and third quarters of 2005 may have an adverse effect on our ability to sell Vantas in the future. In fact, sales of Vantas were lower in the third quarter of 2006 as compared to the other quarters of 2006, in part because of the disruption experienced in 2005 and the resulting lack of implanted patients that returned for a re-implant in 2006. The lack of supply during that period may continue to have an adverse impact on our future sales because physicians may have elected to use alternative treatments during this time frame or may, as a result of this interruption, permanently switch to another product. Additionally, in the future, we may experience other disruptions in our manufacturing process for Vantas or our product candidates. Any disruptions we may experience may adversely impact sales of Vantas or the development of our product candidates. The successful commercialization of Vantas and any other products we develop will depend on obtaining reimbursement at adequate levels from private health insurers and Medicare/Medicaid for patient use of these products. We expect the reimbursement levels for Vantas to continue to decline, which will have an adverse effect on our net product sales. Sales of pharmaceutical products largely depend on the reimbursement of patients’ medical expenses by government healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and private health insurers. These third party payors control healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for healthcare products. Third party payors are increasingly challenging the price and examining the cost effectiveness of medical products and services and altering reimbursement levels. The levels at which government authorities and private health insurers reimburse physicians or patients for the price they pay for Vantas and other products we may develop could affect the extent to which we are able to commercialize these products. Vantas is currently eligible for insurance reimbursement coverage. Sales of Vantas in the first half of 2005 were supported, in part, by favorable Medicare reimbursement rates, which decreased at the beginning of the third quarter of 2005. The favorable reimbursement rates we experienced in the first half of 2005 were due to the fact that Vantas was a new product that did not yet have an established average selling price, or ASP. As a result, Vantas was reimbursed at wholesale acquisition price, which is typically higher than ASP. Vantas received an established ASP effective July 2005, which has resulted in declining reimbursement rates for Vantas. We expect future Medicare reimbursement levels to continue to decline, which will have an adverse effect on our net product sales. Reimbursement levels are currently set by the twenty three Medicare carriers in the United States which, in the aggregate, cover all fifty states. Certain Medicare carriers have a policy which sets the reimbursement rate for Vantas based on our ASP. Other Medicare carriers have a policy that applies the least costly alternative, or LCA, methodology to Vantas. LCA is a payment methodology that allows Medicare carriers to pay the same reimbursement for drugs that have been determined by Medicare to be “medically equivalent.” Vantas is currently the least costly alternative in the class of LHRH drugs. Further, certain Medicare carriers have a policy which segregates twelve-month products from all other dosages, including one, three, four and six month injectable products, and reimburses at different rates for these two groups of products, or a split policy. Finally, there are some Medicare carriers which state they have a policy which reimburses on an ASP or LCA methodology, but which we believe make payments based upon a split policy. 29 We are devoting internal and external resources to determine the impact and fairness of these various policies. In the states where certain Medicare carriers have adopted a split policy, in writing or in practice, we are at an economic disadvantage to the injectable products which are reimbursed at higher annual rates. While we are challenging the basis for these reimbursement policies with the Medicare carriers, there is no guarantee that our challenge will be successful. Significant uncertainty generally exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products. Our ability to achieve acceptable levels of reimbursement for product candidates will affect our ability to successfully commercialize, and attract collaborative partners to invest in the development of, our product candidates. Reimbursement may not be available for Vantas or any other products that we develop and reimbursement or coverage levels may reduce the demand for, or the price of, Vantas or any other products that we may develop. If we cannot maintain coverage for Vantas and obtain adequate reimbursement for other products we develop, the market for those products may be limited. In both the United States and certain foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals in recent years to change the healthcare system in ways that could impact our ability to profitably sell Vantas and any other products that we develop. These proposals include prescription drug benefit proposals for Medicare beneficiaries and measures that would limit or prohibit payments for certain medical treatments or subject the pricing of drugs to government control. Legislation creating a prescription drug benefit and making certain changes in Medicaid reimbursement has been enacted by Congress and signed by the President. Additionally, Medicare regulations implementing the prescription drug benefit became effective as of January 1, 2006. These and other regulatory and legislative changes or proposals may affect our ability to raise capital, obtain additional collaborators and market Vantas and any other products that we may develop. In addition, in many foreign countries, particularly Canada and the countries of the European Union, the pricing of prescription drugs is subject to government control. If our products are or become subject to government regulation that limits or prohibits payment for our products, or that subject the price of our products to governmental control, our ability to sell Vantas and other products we develop in commercially acceptable quantities at profitable prices may be harmed. As a manufacturer of our products, we are subject to regulatory requirements. If we do not comply with such requirements, the development and sales of our products and our financial performance may be materially harmed. Pharmaceutical products are required to be manufactured under regulations known as current good manufacturing practice, or cGMP. Before commercializing a new product, manufacturers must demonstrate compliance with the applicable cGMP regulations, which include quality control and quality assurance requirements, as well as the maintenance of extensive records and documentation. Manufacturing facilities are subject to ongoing periodic inspection by the FDA and corresponding foreign and state authorities, including unannounced inspections, and must be licensed before they can be used in commercial manufacturing for products generated through the use of their technology. In addition, cGMP requirements are constantly evolving, and new or different requirements may apply in the future. After regulatory approvals are obtained, the subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems or the failure to maintain compliance with existing or new regulatory requirements may result in restrictions on the marketing of a product, withdrawal of the product from the market, seizures, the shutdown of manufacturing facilities, injunctions, monetary fines and civil or criminal sanctions. We may also encounter problems with the following: • production yields; • raw materials; • shortages of qualified personnel; • compliance with FDA regulations, including the demonstration of purity and potency; • changes in FDA requirements; • controlling production costs; and • development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. 30 In addition, we are required to register our manufacturing facilities with the FDA and other regulatory authorities. The facilities are subject to inspections confirming compliance with cGMP or other regulations. If we fail to maintain regulatory compliance, the FDA can impose regulatory sanctions including, among other things, refusal to approve a pending application for a new drug product, or revocation of pre-existing approval for a product, such as Vantas, which would eliminate our sole source of revenue. We may not be able to manufacture the Valstar® (valrubicin) product or realize a return on our investment in this product candidate. We have acquired from Anthra Pharmaceuticals, Inc. certain assets associated with its valrubicin product for the treatment of bladder cancer, including the NDA filed with the FDA and the right to sell the product in the United States and Canada. This product was withdrawn from the market in 2002 due to a manufacturing problem. We may not realize a return on our investment in such assets due to risks related to the lack of intellectual property protection and potential manufacturing difficulties. Even though the FDA has agreed to our reintroduction plan, there is no assurance that the FDA will ultimately approve the re-launch of Valstar or we will be able to successfully implement the re-introduction plan. Further, we will not have exclusive rights with respect to the sale of the valrubicin product, because the product is not covered by any patents or orphan drug exclusivity. As a result, competitors may compete with us by, among other things, introducing a generic version of the product or a similar product that contains the active ingredient, valrubicin. Although we believe that we have identified the cause of the previous manufacturing problem and that we will be able to correct it, there can be no assurance that we will be able to correct the problem or that there will not be manufacturing problems in the future. Even if we establish an acceptable manufacturing protocol, our third-party manufacturers may be unable to manufacture the product in sufficient quantities with the correct specifications or in compliance with cGMP or other applicable regulatory requirements. As a result of these risks, we may be unable to realize a return on our investment in this product. We have limited sales, marketing and distribution experience and may be unable to successfully commercialize our products. We have limited experience in marketing, selling, and distributing our products in the United States and abroad. To achieve commercial success, we must build on our current marketing and sales force or contract with other parties, including collaborators, to perform these services for us. In fact, in December 2006 we entered into a co-promotion agreement with Indevus Pharmaceuticals under which Indevus will co-promote Vantas in the United States. Any revenues that we may receive from this co-promotion or other arrangements will depend on the efforts of Indevus Pharmaceuticals or other third parties which may not be successful and are only partially within our control. We will be competing with companies that have experienced and well-funded marketing and sales operations. Many of our competitors have been marketing their products for many years longer than we have been marketing Vantas. The failure to adequately sell and distribute Vantas or our product candidates, if approved, could impair our net product sales, cash flows from operations and our cash position. We may not be able to obtain additional capital that may be necessary for growth and market penetration or to continue our operations. We believe that the net proceeds we received from our initial public offering, together with cash generated from future sales of Vantas, and our line of credit will be sufficient to meet our projected operating requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings in order to acquire new products or product candidates, significantly expand our sales and marketing capabilities, expand our manufacturing capacity, develop product candidates, obtain FDA approval of our product candidates and continue our commercial growth. Any additional equity financings may be on terms that are dilutive or potentially dilutive to our stockholders. Any debt financing we enter into may involve incurring significant interest expense and include covenants that restrict our operations. If we raise additional funds through collaborations and licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish some rights to our technologies, product candidates or products, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. Our ability to raise additional funds will depend on financial, economic and market conditions and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We may not be able to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. If financing is insufficient or unavailable, we will have to modify our growth and marketing strategies and scale back operations by delaying, reducing the scope of, or eliminating one or more of our planned development, commercialization or expansion activities. This may negatively affect our ability to expand our commercialization of Vantas and develop and bring new products to market, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future capital requirements may be significantly greater than we expect and depend on many factors, including: 31 • costs associated with conducting pre-clinical and clinical testing; • costs associated with commercializing Vantas and other products we may develop, including expanding sales and marketing functions; for example, in connection with Supprelin-LA, we expect to increase our sales force; • costs of establishing arrangements for manufacturing; • costs of acquiring new pharmaceutical products and drug delivery systems; • payments required under our current and any future license agreements and collaborations; for example, we are required to make certain royalty and co-promotion payments, which are tied to sales of Vantas; • costs, timing and outcome of regulatory reviews; • costs of obtaining, maintaining and defending patents on proprietary technology; and • costs of increased general and administrative expenses. As of December 31, 2006, the cumulative amount of royalty expense incurred by us as a result of sales of Vantas was approximately $2.5 million. If products utilizing our technology fail to gain market acceptance, we may be unable to generate significant revenue. Even if clinical trials demonstrate the safety and efficacy of products developed utilizing our technology and all regulatory approvals are obtained, such products may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, third party payors or the medical community. The current method of administration for our product candidates in late-stage development is implantation, which may be less well received by some patients than injection therapy. The degree of market acceptance of any product employing our technology will depend on a number of factors, including: • establishment and demonstration of clinical efficacy and safety; • cost-effectiveness; • adequate reimbursement by third parties; • relative convenience and ease of administration; • timing of market introduction of competitive products; • alternative treatment methods, for example, injections and oral formulations; and • marketing and distribution support. If our products do not achieve significant market acceptance, we may be unable to generate significant revenue, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows and results of operations. Our failure to recruit, retain, and motivate qualified management and scientific personnel could adversely affect us. We have a small number of employees and are dependent on certain executive officers and scientific personnel, including David S. Tierney, M.D., our President and Chief Executive Officer, Petr F. Kuzma, Vice President of Research and Development, Matthew L. Rue, III, Vice President of Marketing and Commercial Development, and Kevin Pelin, Vice President of Manufacturing Operations. The loss of the services of any member of our senior management, scientific or technical staff may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of drug development and other business objectives, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future due to intense competition for personnel among pharmaceutical businesses, and our failure to do so could delay or curtail our product development 32 efforts, impair our ability to execute our business strategy and adversely affect us. We have not purchased any key man life insurance for any of our employees. We also utilize consultants and advisors to assist us with research and development. All of our consultants and advisors are either self-employed or employed by other organizations, and they may have conflicts of interest or other commitments, such as consulting or advisory contracts with other organizations, that may affect their ability to contribute to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face substantial competition and our competitors may discover, develop or commercialize products similar to ours before or more successfully than we do. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are very competitive. We compete against all pharmaceutical companies that manufacture or market LHRH agonist products. We also compete against biotechnology companies, universities, government agencies, and other research institutions in the development of urological and endocrine products, technologies and processes that are, or in the future may be, the basis for competitive commercial products. In particular, we compete against the following LHRH agonist products for the palliative treatment of advanced prostate cancer: TAP Pharmaceutical Products’ Lupron and Sanofi-Aventis’ Eligard, both multiple injection formulations that deliver leuprolide; Watson Pharmaceuticals’ Trelstar, a multiple injection formulation that delivers triptorelin; AstraZeneca’s Zoladex, a biodegradable rod that delivers goserelin for up to three months; and Bayer Pharmaceuticals’ Viadur, a rigid metal implant that releases leuprolide over a 12-month period. With respect to our Supprelin-LA product in late-stage development for the treatment of CPP, our competitor is TAP Pharmaceutical Products’ Lupron Depot-PED and with regard to VP003, our octreotide implant for acromegaly, our competitors include Novartis’ Sandostatin injections and Sandostatin LAR Depots and Pfizer’s Somavert. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources, larger research and development staffs and more experience developing products, obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals and manufacturing and marketing products. In addition, many of our competitors devote significant resources to challenging the marketing policies of other developers of pharmaceutical products. Consequently, competition for the development and marketing of urological and endocrine pharmaceutical products is intense and is expected to increase. For example, in the past we have received communications from Bayer Pharmaceuticals regarding our sales and marketing techniques for Vantas. Our practice has been to review these communications with counsel to determine whether any remedial or corrective action needs to be made. These communications have not resulted in any notice of violations or other action by any government authority or agency. Our competitors may discover, develop or commercialize products similar to ours before or more successfully than we do and may compete with us in establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies and technology licenses complementary to our programs or advantageous to our business. In addition, there may be product candidates of which we are not aware at an earlier stage of development that may compete with our product candidates. If any of them are successfully developed and approved, they could compete directly with our product candidates. This could result in reduced sales and pricing pressure on any similar products that we develop, which in turn would reduce our ability to generate revenue and could have a material adverse effect on our net product sales, gross margin and cash flows from operations. Our sales of Vantas and any other products we may develop could suffer from competition by generic products. Although we have proprietary protection for Vantas and other products we are developing, we could face competition from generic substitutes of these products if generics are developed by other companies and approved by the FDA. Because generic manufacturers are not exposed to development risks for such generic substitutes, these manufacturers can capture market share by selling generic products at lower prices, which can reduce the market share held by the original product. Competition from the sale of generic products may cause a decrease in our selling price or units sold, and could have a material adverse effect on our net product sales, gross margin and cash flows from operations. We face a risk of product liability claims and may not be able to obtain adequate insurance. Our business exposes us to potential liability risks that may arise from the clinical testing of our product candidates and the manufacture and sale of Vantas and other products that we may develop. Plaintiffs have received substantial damage awards in some jurisdictions against pharmaceutical companies based upon claims for injuries allegedly caused by the use of their products. Such liability claims may be expensive to defend and may result in large judgments against us. Although we have liability insurance with a 33 coverage limit of $10 million, our insurance may not reimburse us, or this coverage may not be sufficient to cover claims that may be made against us. In addition, if we are no longer able to maintain this coverage or have to obtain additional coverage, we may not be able to obtain liability insurance on acceptable terms or at all. Whether or not we are ultimately successful in any product liability litigation, such litigation could consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources and could result in: • significant awards against us; • substantial litigation costs; • recall of the product; • injury to our reputation; and • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The approved drugs used in Vantas and our product candidates, as well as the implant itself, may cause side effects and we may not be able to achieve an acceptable level of side effect risks, compared to the potential therapeutic benefits, for our product candidates. The active compound in Vantas and each of our product candidates has been approved by the FDA for the treatment of the conditions, diseases and disorders that we are seeking to treat. Each of these compounds, as well as the implant itself and other delivery methods, is associated with certain side effects. Although we have not experienced any difficulties with the side effects profile of Vantas, the implant or our product candidates to date, the side effects of the approved drugs in our product candidates may be acceptable when a drug is used in its approved dosage to achieve a therapeutic benefit for its currently approved indications, but the side effect risk compared to the therapeutic benefit may not be acceptable when used for the intended indications for the product candidate. Side effects of the approved drugs, the implant or the combination of these elements, could prevent successful development and commercialization of some or all of our product candidates. Further, the development of a product candidate could be adversely affected by safety or efficacy issues that subsequently arise regarding use of the approved drug, similar drugs or the implant or other delivery methods. We could be forced to abandon a product candidate or an approved product, such as Vantas, due to adverse side effects from long-term or other use of the implant or other delivery methods or the active pharmaceutical ingredients in the product candidate or product. Risks Related to Clinical Trials and Other Regulatory Matters If our clinical trials are unsuccessful or significantly delayed, or if we do not complete our clinical trials, we may not be able to commercialize our product candidates. We must provide the FDA and similar foreign regulatory authorities with pre-clinical and clinical data to demonstrate that our product candidates are safe and effective for each indication before they can be approved for commercialization. The pre-clinical testing and clinical trials of any product candidates that we develop must comply with the regulations of numerous federal, state and local government authorities in the United States, principally the FDA, and by similar agencies in other countries. Clinical development is a long, expensive and uncertain process and is subject to delays. We may encounter delays or rejections for various reasons, including our inability to enroll enough patients to complete our clinical trials. We have various products at various stages of development. It may take several years to complete the testing of a product candidate, and failure can occur at any stage of development, for many reasons, including: • interim results of pre-clinical or clinical studies do not necessarily predict their final results, and acceptable results in early studies might not be seen in later studies; • product candidates that appear promising at early stages of development may ultimately fail because the products may be ineffective, may be less effective than competitors’ products or may cause harmful side effects; 34 • any pre-clinical or clinical test may fail to produce results satisfactory to the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities; • pre-clinical or clinical data can be interpreted in different ways, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval; • negative or inconclusive results from a pre-clinical study or clinical trial or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could cause a pre-clinical study or clinical trial to be repeated or a program to be terminated, even if other studies or trials relating to the program are successful; • the FDA can place a clinical hold on a trial if, among other reasons, it finds that patients enrolled in the trial are or would be exposed to an unreasonable and significant risk of illness or injury; • we may encounter delays or rejections based on changes in regulatory agency policies during the period in which we are developing a product candidate or the period required for review of any application for regulatory agency approval; • our clinical trials may not demonstrate the safety and efficacy of any product candidates or result in marketable products; • the FDA may change its approval policies or adopt new regulations that may negatively affect or delay our ability to bring a product candidate to market; and • a product candidate may not be approved for all the indications which we request. The development and approval process may take many years, require substantial resources and may never lead to the approval of a product. With the exception of Vantas, we do not have, and may never obtain, the regulatory approvals we need to market our product candidates. Our failure to obtain, or delays in obtaining, regulatory approvals would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Product candidates are subject to extensive and rigorous government regulation by the FDA, other regulatory agencies, and their respective foreign equivalents. The FDA regulates the research, development, pre-clinical and clinical testing, manufacture, safety, effectiveness, record keeping, reporting, labeling, storage, approval, advertising, promotion, sale, distribution, import and export of pharmaceutical products. Any of our products marketed abroad will also be subject to extensive regulation by foreign governments, whether or not we have obtained FDA approval for a given product and its uses. Government regulation substantially increases the cost of researching, developing, manufacturing and selling pharmaceutical products. The regulatory review and approval process, which includes pre-clinical testing and clinical trials of each product candidate, is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. We must obtain regulatory approval for each product we intend to market, and the manufacturing facilities used for the products must be inspected and meet legal requirements. Securing regulatory approval requires the submission of extensive pre-clinical and clinical data and other supporting information for each proposed therapeutic indication in order to establish the product’s safety, efficacy, potency and purity for each intended use. Moreover, approval policies or regulations may change. We will not be able to commercialize our product candidates until we obtain FDA approval in the United States or approval by comparable authorities in other countries. The development and approval process takes many years, requires substantial resources and may never lead to the approval of a product. In October 2004, we received FDA approval for the commercial sale of Vantas in the United States. In November 2005, we received approval to market Vantas in Denmark. In March 2006, we received approval to market Vantas in Canada. Failure to obtain, or delays in obtaining, regulatory approvals may: • adversely affect the commercialization of any products that we develop; • impose additional costs on us; • diminish any competitive advantages that we may attain; and • adversely affect our receipt of revenues or royalties. 35 Even if we receive regulatory approval for our product candidates, our approval may be limited and, we will be subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight. Even if we are able to obtain regulatory approval for a particular product, the approval may limit the indicated uses for the product, may otherwise limit our sales practices and our ability to promote, sell and distribute the product, may require that we conduct costly post-marketing surveillance and may require that we conduct ongoing post-marketing studies. Material changes to an approved product, such as manufacturing changes or revised labeling, may require further regulatory review and approval. Once obtained, any approvals may be withdrawn for a number of reasons, including the later discovery of previously unknown problems with the product. If we or our contract manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements at any stage during the regulatory process, such noncompliance could result in: • refusals or delays in the approval of applications or supplements to approved applications; • refusal of a regulatory authority, including the FDA, to review pending market approval applications or supplements to approved applications; • warning letters; • fines; • import or export restrictions; • product recalls or seizures; • injunctions; • total or partial suspension of clinical trials or production; • civil penalties; • withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications or licenses; • recommendations by the FDA or other regulatory authorities against entering into governmental contracts with us; or • criminal prosecutions. The regulatory approval process outside the United States varies depending on foreign regulatory requirements, and failure to obtain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions would prevent the marketing of our products in those jurisdictions. We intend to also market our products outside of the United States. For example, we have executed agreements to license Vantas in Canada, Europe, South Africa, Asia and Argentina. To market our products in the European Union and many other foreign jurisdictions, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. Approval of a product by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries must still be obtained prior to manufacturing or marketing that product in those countries. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing, and the time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval set forth above, and approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by the regulatory authorities of any other country, nor does the approval by foreign regulatory authorities in one country ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or the FDA. We may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any foreign market. If we fail to comply with these regulatory requirements or obtain and maintain required approvals, our target market will be reduced and our ability to generate revenue from abroad will be adversely affected. 36 We rely on third parties to conduct certain of the clinical trials for our product candidates, and if they do not perform their obligations to us, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approvals for our product candidates. We design the clinical trials for our product candidates, but we rely on academic institutions, corporate partners, contract research organizations and other third parties to assist us in managing, monitoring and otherwise carrying out these trials. Accordingly, we may have less control over the timing and other aspects of these clinical trials than if we conducted them entirely on our own. Although we rely on these third parties to manage the data from these clinical trials, we are responsible for confirming that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with its general investigational plan and protocol. Moreover, FDA and foreign regulatory agencies require us to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practice, for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that the data and results are credible and accurate and that the trial participants are adequately protected. Our reliance on third parties does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements, and we may fail to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, if these requirements are not met. Risks Related to Intellectual Property Our success depends on the protection of our intellectual property rights, and our failure to secure these rights would materially harm our business. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary rights are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. We protect our proprietary position by filing United States and foreign patent applications related to our proprietary technology, inventions and improvements that are important to the development of our business. We may not be able to obtain patent protection for our pending patent applications, those we may file in the future, or those we may license from third parties. Moreover, patents issued or that may be issued or licensed may not be enforceable or valid or may expire prior to the commercialization of our product candidates. The patent position of a pharmaceutical company involves complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, enforceability or validity cannot be predicted with certainty. Patents, if issued, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Thus, any patents that we own or license from third parties may not provide sufficient protection against our competitors. Also, patent rights may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technology. Further, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, our competitive position would be impaired and our business could be adversely affected. In addition to patent protection, we also rely on the protection of trade secrets, know-how and confidential and proprietary information. To maintain the confidentiality of trade secrets and proprietary information, we have entered into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and collaborators upon the commencement of their relationships with us. These agreements require that all confidential information developed by the individual or made known to the individual by us during the course of the individual’s relationship with us be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties. Our agreements with employees also provide that inventions conceived by the individual in the course of rendering services to us shall be our exclusive property. However, we may not obtain these agreements in all circumstances, and individuals with whom we have these agreements may not comply with the terms of these agreements. In the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of their trade secrets or proprietary information, these agreements, even if obtained, may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other confidential information. Further, to the extent that our employees, consultants or contractors use technology or know-how owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related inventions. Adequate remedies may not exist in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our confidential information. The disclosure of our trade secrets would impair our competitive position and could harm our business. Our commercial success depends significantly on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of third parties. Others may obtain patents that could limit our ability to use, import, manufacture, market or sell products or impair our competitive position. No patent can protect its holder from a claim of infringement of another patent. Therefore, our patent position cannot and does not provide any assurance that the commercialization of our products would not infringe the patent rights of another. In the event our technologies infringe or violate the proprietary rights of third parties, we may be prevented from pursuing the 37 development, manufacturing or commercialization of our products that utilize such technologies. While we know of no actual or threatened claim of infringement that would be material to us, there can be no assurance that such a claim will not be asserted. If such a claim is asserted, the resolution of the claim may not permit us to continue marketing the relevant product, such as Vantas, on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Protecting our intellectual property is expensive and time consuming and could harm our business. Third parties may challenge the validity of our patents and other intellectual property rights, resulting in costly litigation or other time-consuming and expensive proceedings, which could deprive us of valuable rights. If we become involved in any intellectual property litigation, interference or other judicial or administrative proceedings, we will incur substantial expenses and the diversion of financial resources and technical and management personnel. An adverse determination may subject us to significant liabilities or require us to seek licenses that may not be available from third parties on commercially favorable terms, if at all. Further, if such claims are proven valid, through litigation or otherwise, we may be required to pay substantial financial damages, which can be tripled if the infringement is deemed willful, or be required to discontinue or significantly delay development, marketing, selling and licensing of the affected products and intellectual property rights. In addition, an adverse determination in a proceeding involving our owned or licensed intellectual property may allow entry of generic substitutes for our products. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The trading price of the shares of our common stock could be highly volatile. The trading price of the shares of our common stock could be highly volatile in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • developments concerning Vantas or any of our product candidates; • announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors; • new products introduced or announced by us or our competitors; • changes in reimbursement levels; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • actual or anticipated variations in operating results; • expiration or termination of licenses, research contracts or other collaboration agreements; • conditions or trends in the regulatory climate and the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries; • intellectual property, product liability or other litigation against us; • our failure to consummate the proposed merger with Indevus Pharmaceuticals; • changes in the market valuations of similar companies; and • sales of shares of our common stock, particularly sales by our officers, directors and significant stockholders. In addition, equity markets in general, and the market for biotechnology and life sciences companies in particular, have experienced substantial price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies traded in those markets. In addition, changes in economic conditions in the United States, Europe or globally, could impact upon our ability to grow profitably. Adverse economic changes are outside our control and may result in material adverse impacts on our business or results. These broad market and industry factors may materially affect the market price of the shares, regardless of our development and operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Such litigation, if instituted 38 against us could cause us to incur substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The ownership interests of our officers, directors and largest stockholders could conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. Our directors, executive officers and holders of 5% or more of our outstanding common stock beneficially own approximately 58% of our common stock as of December 31, 2006. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, are able to significantly influence all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of mergers or other significant corporate transactions. For example, in connection with our proposed merger with Indevus, certain affiliated funds of Sanders Morris Harris, our largest stockholder, and one other large stockholder of ours, entered into voting agreements with Indevus in which they have agreed to vote shares representing approximately 41% of our outstanding shares of common stock in favor of the merger. The interests of this group of stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders. Our use of our initial public offering proceeds may not yield a favorable return on your investment. We have used a portion of the net proceeds from our initial public offering to expand our sales and marketing capabilities, fund our research and development activities, expand our manufacturing capabilities, and for general corporate purposes, including the potential acquisition or in-license of additional urological and endocrine products. We have used a portion of the net proceeds from our initial public offering to repay amounts outstanding under our line of credit. In addition, we may use a portion of the net proceeds to acquire businesses, products or technologies that are complementary to our current or future business and product lines. Our management has broad discretion over how these proceeds are used and could spend the proceeds in ways with which you may not agree. We also plan to invest the proceeds from our initial public offering. However, the proceeds may not be invested effectively or in a manner that yields a favorable or any return, and consequently, this could result in financial losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, cause the price of our common stock to decline and/or delay the development of our product candidates. Our common stock has been publicly traded for a short time and an active trading market may not be sustained. Although we are currently listed for trading on The NASDAQ Global Market, an active trading market for our common stock may not be sustained. An inactive market may impair your ability to sell shares of our common stock at the time you wish to sell them or at a price that you consider reasonable. Furthermore, an inactive market may impair our ability to raise capital by selling additional shares and may impair our ability to acquire other businesses, products and technologies by using our shares as consideration. Delaware law and our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could delay and discourage takeover attempts that stockholders may consider favorable. Certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, or certificate of incorporation, and amended and restated bylaws, or bylaws, and applicable provisions of Delaware corporate law may make it more difficult for or prevent a third party from acquiring control of us or changing our board of directors and management. These provisions include: • the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences; • limitations on the ability of stockholders to amend our charter documents, including stockholder supermajority voting requirements; • the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; • a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms; • requirements that special meetings of our stockholders may only be called by the chairman of our board of directors, our president, or upon a resolution adopted by, or an affirmative vote of, a majority of our board of directors; and • advance notice procedures our stockholders must comply with in order to nominate candidates for election to our board of directors or to place stockholders’ proposals on the agenda for consideration at meetings of stockholders. 39 We will also be afforded the protections of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which will prevent us from engaging in a business combination with a person who acquires at least 15% of our common stock for a period of three years from the date such person acquired such common stock, unless board or stockholder approval were obtained. Because our board of directors approved the Indevus merger and the agreements executed in connection with the merger, Section 203 will not apply to the merger if it is approved and becomes effective. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors or management could deter potential acquirers or prevent the completion of a transaction in which our stockholders could receive a substantial premium over the then current market price for their shares. Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. Persons who were our stockholders prior to the sale of shares in our initial public offering continue to hold a substantial number of shares of our common stock that they will be able to sell in the public market in the near future. Significant portions of these shares are held by a small number of stockholders. Sales by our current stockholders of a substantial number of shares, or the expectation that such sales may occur, could significantly reduce the market price of our common stock. Moreover, the holders of approximately 9,406,271 shares of our common stock as of January 1, 2007, will have rights, subject to certain conditions, to require us to file registration statements to permit the resale of their shares in the public market or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. Our quarterly financial results are likely to fluctuate significantly because our sales prospects are uncertain and, as a result, our stock price may decline. Our quarterly operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from period to period. For example, as described above, less favorable reimbursement rates of Vantas became effective at the beginning of the third quarter of 2005, as the basis for determining reimbursement rates switched from wholesale acquisition cost to the typically lower ASP. In addition, as described above, we anticipate that the number of states that provide reimbursement for Vantas under the Medicare program using the LCA methodology will increase in future quarters, leading to a decline in our sales price for Vantas. The level of our revenues and results of operations at any given time will be based primarily on the following factors: • the effectiveness of our co-promotion relationship with Indevus; • success of the commercialization of Vantas and any other product candidates that may be approved; • our ability to license our implant technology • changes in our ability to obtain FDA approval for our product candidates; • results of our clinical trials; • timing of new product offerings, acquisitions, licenses or other significant events by us or our competitors; • regulatory approvals and legislative changes affecting the products we may offer or those of our competitors; • our ability to establish, grow and maintain a productive sales force; • demand and pricing of Vantas and other products we may offer; • physician and patient acceptance of Vantas and other products we may offer; • levels of third-party reimbursement for Vantas and other products we may offer; • interruption in the manufacturing or distribution of Vantas and other products we may offer; and • the effect of competing technological and market developments. 40 It will be difficult for us to forecast demand for Vantas and our product candidates that may be approved with any degree of certainty, and therefore, our sales prospects are uncertain. In addition, we will be increasing our operating expenses as we expand our commercial capabilities. Accordingly, we may experience significant, unanticipated quarterly losses. Because of these factors, our operating results in one or more future quarters may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline significantly. Risks Related to Our Potential Merger with Indevus Pharmaceuticals The merger is subject to conditions to closing that could result in the merger being delayed or not consummated, which could negatively impact our stock price and future business and operations. The merger is subject to conditions to closing as set forth in the merger agreement, including obtaining the requisite stockholder approvals of Indevus and us and regulatory approvals of the transaction. If any of the conditions to the merger are not satisfied or, where permissible, not waived, the merger will not be consummated. Failure to consummate the merger could negatively impact our stock price, future business and operations, and financial condition. Any delay in the consummation of the merger or any uncertainty about the consummation of the merger may adversely affect the future businesses, growth, revenue and results of operations of either or both of the companies or the combined company. Failure to complete the merger could negatively impact the market price of our common stock and the future business and financial results of our Company. If the merger is not completed for any reason, our ongoing business may be adversely affected and will be subject to a number of risks, including: • we might have to pay Indevus a termination fee of $5.0 million, or we might be required to reimburse Indevus for up to $3.0 million of expenses relating to the merger, such as legal, accounting, financial advisory and printing fees; • the inability to pursue other beneficial opportunities as a result of the focus of our management on the merger, without realizing any of the anticipated benefits of completing the merger; • the market price of our common stock might decline to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that the merger will be completed; and • our unreimbursed costs incurred related to the merger, such as legal, accounting, financial advisory and printing fees, must be paid even if the merger is not completed. If the merger agreement is terminated and our board of directors seeks another merger or business combination, our stockholders cannot be certain that we will be able to find a party willing to pay an equivalent or more attractive price than the price Indevus has agreed to pay in the merger. We will incur substantial expenses whether or not the merger is completed. We will incur substantial expenses related to the merger whether or not the merger is completed. These expenses would include legal, accounting, financial advisory and printing fees. As of December 31, 2006, we have incurred approximately $0.8 million related to the merger transaction. Moreover, in the event the merger agreement is terminated, we may, under certain circumstances, be required to pay Indevus a $5.0 million termination fee or reimburse out-of-pocket expenses of up to $3.0 million. Also, should the merger agreement be terminated due to a willful breach of the merger agreement by us, we could owe significant damages to Indevus. Employee uncertainty related to the merger could harm the combined company resulting from the merger. Current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future as employees of the combined company resulting from the merger until strategies with regard to our current employees are announced or, if the merger fails to be consummated our on-going operations, or executed. This may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain, and may affect the performance during the transition period of, key management, sales, marketing and technical personnel. Some of our executive officers and directors have conflicts of interest or additional interests that might have influenced them to support and approve the merger. 41 Our executive officers and directors might have been influenced to support and approve the merger because of arrangements that provide them with interests in the merger that are different from, or in addition to, the interests of our stockholders in the merger, including the following • severance benefits to certain of our executive officers pursuant to existing employment agreements; • share issuances to our executive officers and directors in consideration of the cancellation of all options to purchase our common stock in connection with the merger; • employment agreements expected to be entered into between Indevus and certain of our officers, and, in the case of James C. Gale, the chairman of our board of directors, an expected membership on Indevus’ board of directors; • rights to continued director and executive officer indemnification and insurance coverage by Indevus after the merger for acts or omissions occurring before the merger; and • registration rights covering the shares of Indevus common stock acquired by SMH (and affiliated entities; James C. Gale, the chairman of our board of directors, is the chief investment officer of those SMH affiliated entities) in connection with the merger for resale under the Securities Act on a Registration Statement on Form S-3 to be filed by Indevus within 30 days following the effective time of the merger. The merger agreement limits our ability to pursue alternative business combinations. Certain “no shop” provisions included in the merger agreement make it difficult for us to sell our business to a party other than Indevus. These provisions include the general prohibition on our soliciting any acquisition proposal or offer for a competing transaction, a requirement that we pay a termination fee of $5.0 million if the merger agreement is terminated in specified circumstances and a requirement that we reimburse Indevus’ fees and expenses of up to $3.0 million if the merger agreement is terminated in specified circumstances. These provisions might discourage a third party with an interest in acquiring all of or a significant part of us from considering or proposing an acquisition, including a proposal that might be more advantageous to our stockholders when compared to the terms and conditions of the proposed merger with Indevus. Furthermore, the termination fee may result in a potential competing acquirer proposing to pay a lower per share price to acquire us than it might otherwise have proposed to pay to our stockholders. 42 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable 