RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business Increasing competition in each of our service regions and markets may have an adverse effect on our business growth and financial condition. The telecommunications industry in China is rapidly evolving. In recent years, the central government has implemented a number of measures to restructure, and encourage fair and orderly competition in the telecommunications industry. As a result, we face increasing competition from other licensed telecommunications operators in China, including China Telecom Group, or China Telecom; China Mobile Communications Corporation, or China Mobile; China United Telecommunications Corporation, or China Unicom; China Railway Communications Corporation Limited, or China Railcom; and China Satellite Communications Corporation, or China Satcom. We expect our competitors to further expand their network coverage and increase their sales and marketing efforts in our northern and southern service regions. We will also face competition from foreign-invested telecommunications operators as a result of China's accession into the World Trade Organization, or the WTO, and the entry of foreign telecommunications companies into the Chinese market. In addition, we face competition from other telecommunications operators in our Asia-Pacific markets. As we operate in an increasingly competitive market, we have experienced and may continue to experience pressure on operating revenues and operating margins for some of our telecommunications services. In our northern service region, competition in fixed-line services and in broadband and data services may result in lower tariffs, a smaller customer base and lower usage for our services, thereby adversely affecting our business growth and financial condition. We compete with other fixed-line service providers, including China Telecom, China Unicom and China Railcom, each of which has been licensed to provide fixed-line telephone services in our northern service region. We have experienced limited competition from other fixed-line service providers to date in the market for local telephone services, primarily because our competitors have not built significant local access infrastructure. However, competition for the provision of these services may increase in the future as our competitors develop their own networks, including through the use of alternative technologies. In the markets for domestic and international long distance telephone services, we face strong competition from voice over Internet protocol, or VoIP services, provided by China Telecom, China Mobile, China Unicom and China Railcom. Tariffs for VoIP services are market-based and therefore not subject to minimum pricing restriction. In addition, we may face increasing competition from Internet phone service providers such as Skype and Vonage if current restrictions on the provision of these services are loosened. Increased competition from these operators may force us to lower our tariffs or may reduce the size of our customer base and the usage of our networks. Any of these developments may materially adversely affect our business growth and financial condition. Mobile service substitution for our fixed-line telephone services has also created considerable competition in the markets for local and long distance telephone services. Consistent with trends in global markets in recent years, an increasing proportion of total voice traffic is being carried by mobile networks. Currently, China Mobile and China Unicom are the only licensed providers of mobile communications services in China and, in recent years, some of the traffic from our fixed-line networks has been diverted to the networks of these two companies. In addition, we face pricing pressure from mobile operators, which have recently increasingly lowered tariffs through various discount programs. The usage volume of non-PHS local calls decreased to 172.9 billion pulses in 2005 from 189.0 billion pulses in 2004, at least in part due to migration of our non-PHS local traffic to mobile services. For managed data services and broadband Internet access services, or broadband services, we primarily compete with China Unicom, China Telecom, China Railcom and other broadband Internet access services providers, such as Beijing Gehua CATV Network Co., Ltd. on the basis of pricing, the coverage and quality of networks, ability to provide end-to-end connectivity, quality of network management and customer service. While other major telecommunications operators in China have been leasing transport facilities from us to serve their customers, some of them, such as China Mobile and China Unicom, have in recent years begun to build their own long distance networks for voice services and fiber-optic networks for data services. Increased competition from these domestic telecommunications providers may result in lower revenues for us due to competitive pricing policies and increased sales and marketing costs to attract or retain subscribers. In our southern service region, if we do not compete effectively against China Telecom and other operators, we may achieve lower returns on our investments than expected and our business growth may be adversely affected. In our southern service region, we compete primarily against China Telecom in the provision of VoIP services, broadband services and data services. China Telecom has a competitive advantage over us in our southern service region in terms of its larger customer base, broader network coverage and greater brand recognition. China Telecom controls most of the local access network, including the "last mile" access network, in our southern service region. Despite our efforts to build a local access network over the past five years, China Telecom is still the dominant service provider in our southern service region. As a result, we may not be able to compete effectively against China Telecom and realize acceptable returns on our investments and our business growth prospects may be adversely affected. In addition to China Telecom, we are faced with increased competition from other operators in our southern service region. In the Asia-Pacific markets, continuing pricing pressure or our inability to meet the requirements of our business customers may reduce our revenues and net income derived from these markets. The telecommunications services market for business and carrier customers in the Asia-Pacific region is highly competitive, and our success in the region will depend on our ability to compete against a variety of other telecommunications operators, including regional as well as global telecommunications operators. Some of our competitors may have competitive advantages over us, including greater name recognition in a particular market, greater resources, larger customer bases and better relationships with our current and potential customers. Due to substantial excess transport capacity in the Asia-Pacific carrier market, we face intense competition from other providers of telecommunications services in the Asia-Pacific region, including C2C Pte. Ltd. and the FLAG Telecom Group Limited. As a result of strong competition, prices of data and bandwidth products and services in our target markets have experienced continual declines in recent years. Competition also exists in the business customer segment, in which we face strong competition from international providers such as AT&T Corp. and local incumbent providers such as Singapore Telecommunications Limited, Japan's Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corporation, or NTT, and KT Corp. The incumbent providers in particular tend to have better control of local networks. Any continued decrease in price or our inability to meet the requirements of business customers may have a material adverse impact on our revenues and net income derived from our international telecommunications services. Competition from foreign-invested operators and other new entrants may further increase the competition for employees, exacerbate price competition and increase our operating expenses, thereby adversely affecting our financial condition and growth prospects. As a result of China's accession to the WTO in December 2001, and the adoption of the Regulations on the Administration of Foreign-Invested Telecommunications Enterprises in January 2002, which implement China's commitments to the WTO, the PRC government has agreed to gradually liberalize the various segments and regions of the telecommunications market in China to foreign investors. Both the percentage of ownership of Sino-foreign joint ventures offering telecommunications services in China and the regions where those joint ventures are permitted to offer telecommunications services will be increased over several years. For example, foreign operators are permitted, subject to various ownership and licensing restrictions, to establish joint venture enterprises in the municipalities of Beijing and Shanghai and the city of Guangzhou to provide domestic and international voice, packet-switched and circuit-switched data transmission and other services. Foreign-invested operators entering China's telecommunications market as a result of this liberalization may have greater financial, managerial and technical resources and more expertise in network management and sales and marketing than we do. Increased competition from these and other new entrants into the Chinese telecommunications market may further increase the competition for skilled and experienced employees, exacerbate price competition and increase our customer acquisition costs and other operating expenses, and thereby adversely affect our financial condition and growth prospects. Competition from alternative technologies to our PHS business and an introduction of TD-SCDMA technology may cause our PHS services to be less competitive, and adversely affect our growth prospects and revenues. We currently provide personal handyphone system, or PHS, services in most cities in our northern service region to reduce the impact of mobile substitution on our fixed-line operations. PHS is a telecommunications technology that allows us to offer to our customers wireless local access services with mobility within an area with the same area code. Our ability to realize acceptable returns from our investment in PHS technology will depend on continued customer adoption of this technology. However, this market may not continue to develop, since potential customers are and will be able to choose from a variety of alternative fixed-line and wireless communication technologies, including both existing technologies and new technologies to be offered in the future, such as third generation, or 3G mobile telephone services. For instance, if China Mobile or China Unicom reduces the tariffs for mobile telecommunications services, our existing and potential PHS customers may choose to use these services instead of our PHS services to take advantage of the less geographically restricted service scope and other features of mobile technology. In addition, more mobile licenses may be issued in the near future, which will increase the level of competition in the provision of mobile telephone services, which will in turn increase pricing pressure and adversely affect the growth prospects of our PHS services. Furthermore, if we introduce 3G mobile telephone services, traffic on our PHS services may migrate to our 3G services, thereby materially and adversely affect the growth prospects of our PHS services. Furthermore, part of the radio spectrum currently used by our PHS services may be reallocated by the PRC government to time division synchronization code division multiple access technology, or TD-SCDMA technology, which is one of the three technologies adopted by the International Telecommunications Union and is under review by the PRC government for use in providing 3G mobile telephone services. The PRC government is currently conducting tests on TD-SCDMA related products. The PRC government has not officially announced its decisions on issues such as the timing of the grant of the 3G licenses, the number of 3G licenses to be granted, any technical requirements, or any selection of preferred technologies. If TD-SCDMA technology is introduced, our ability to use the existing PHS spectrum may be restricted, thereby limiting the volume of usage we can handle and adversely affecting our revenues. Any of the risks described above may cause our PHS services to become less competitive and thereby materially and adversely affect our growth prospects and revenues. Because we rely on certain arrangements with other telecommunications operators, changes to the terms or availability of these arrangements may result in disruptions to our services and operations. Our ability to provide telecommunications services depends upon certain arrangements with other telecommunications operators. In particular, interconnection is necessary to complete all calls between our subscribers and subscribers of other telecommunications operators. We, either through ourselves or through China Netcom Group, have entered into interconnection and transmission line leasing agreements with other fixed-line operators, including our parent company, China Netcom Group, mobile telephone operators and other telecommunications providers, as required to conduct our current business. Any disruption to our interconnection with the networks of those operators or other international telecommunications carriers with which we interconnect due to technical or competitive reasons may affect our operations, service quality and customer satisfaction, thus adversely affecting our business. Furthermore, we are generally not entitled to collect indirect or consequential damages resulting from disruptions in the networks to which we are interconnected. Our failure to renew our existing interconnection and leased line agreements on commercially acceptable terms may result in disruptions to our services. In addition, in our southern service region, we may need to lease local access network facilities from other operators in order to provide services to our customers. If we are unable to enter into arrangements with such operators in a timely manner or on acceptable terms, it may result in a delay in providing services to our customers and disrupt our operations, as we may need to seek alternative arrangements with other operators, which may adversely affect our financial condition and our results of operations. Disruptions to our network or operating systems, or to those with which we interconnect, may result in customer dissatisfaction and reduced revenues from operations. Our network infrastructure and the networks with which we interconnect are vulnerable to potential damage or interruption from floods, wind, storms, fires, power loss, severed cables, acts of terrorism and similar events. In particular, commercial fishing and other maritime activities may damage our Asia-Pacific submarine cables. Our networks and systems and the networks with which we interconnect also require regular maintenance and upgrades that may cause service disruptions. The occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems at our facilities or any other failure of our networks or systems, or the networks to which we are interconnected, may result in consequential interruptions in services across our telecommunications infrastructure. Network or system failures, as well as high traffic volumes, may also affect the quality of our services and cause temporary service interruptions. Although we have not experienced material disruptions or damage to our network and operating systems in the past, any such future occurrence may result in customer dissatisfaction and reduced revenues from operations. Failure to successfully respond to technological and industry developments may hinder our revenue growth and adversely affect our competitive position. The telecommunications sector has recently experienced rapid increases in the diversity and sophistication of the technologies and services offered. As a result, we expect that we will need to constantly upgrade our telecommunications technologies and services in order to respond to competitive industry conditions and customer requirements. For example, the next generation network has the capability of providing new value-added services and content that combine voice, data and images with increased efficiency and flexibility. Next generation networks may replace the traditional public switched telephone networks in the future. We have not experienced significant difficulties in upgrading new technologies and equipment in the past, but if we fail to smoothly upgrade or achieve a balanced transition of our existing network to the next generation network, we may lose our customers and market share, which may adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Furthermore, if the new technologies adopted by us do not perform as expected, or if we are unable to effectively deliver new services based on these technologies in a commercially viable manner, our revenue growth may decline and our competitive position may be adversely affected. If we fail to successfully implement our business strategies, we may not achieve acceptable investment returns or manage growth in certain services and markets, and our financial condition may be adversely affected. We may not be able to successfully implement all of our business strategies. For example, we have made substantial investments in developing our broadband network infrastructure and technology. However, the broadband market in China may not continue to expand at recent rates of growth, and we may not be able to attract enough customers and generate sufficient usage to achieve an acceptable return on our significant broadband investment. In addition, we may not be able to successfully expand our business and achieve profitable growth in our southern service region and the Asia-Pacific region or be able to successfully manage the growth in our business. Failure to successfully implement our business strategies may adversely affect our financial condition. Our internal controls and management systems are not currently consistent with international practices in certain respects and we are in the process of improving these controls and systems to enable us to certify the effectiveness of our internal controls under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our failure to timely and successfully upgrade these controls and systems could subject us to regulatory actions and harm the price of our stock. Our primary operating subsidiary was established in the PRC, and as such our internal control and management systems were designed to meet the standards generally adopted by companies in China. These standards are different from the standards and best practices adopted by companies listed in the United States. We have identified areas in which our current internal control and management systems do not meet international standards and practices. In addition, during their recent audit, our external auditors brought to our attention a number of areas in which there are more than a remote likelihood that our current internal controls and management systems do not reduce to a relatively low level of the risk of undetected errors or fraud that are more than inconsequential and could adversely affect our ability to accurately and timely record, process, summarize and report financial data. Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the various rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto or in conjunction therewith, we will be required, for fiscal year 2006, to perform an evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting and file an assessment of its effectiveness with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. Unless we successfully upgrade our controls and systems, we will not be able to satisfactorily comply with our obligations under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If we fail to successfully complete the improvements we have scheduled on a timely basis or if the activities fail to raise our internal controls and management systems to the levels required by international standards or legal requirements or if we fail to implement required new or improved controls, then we may fail to meet our reporting obligations and our auditors may be unable to certify the management's assertion of the effectiveness of our internal controls as required under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. This could subject us to regulatory scrutiny and result in a loss of public confidence in our management, which could, among other things, adversely affect our stock price. We rely substantially on short-term borrowings and our inability to obtain sufficient funding may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. Similar to many enterprises in China, a significant percentage of our funding requirements is satisfied through short-term borrowings. This has resulted in a significant increase in our net current liabilities. As of December 31, 2004 and 2005, our short-term bank loans and the current portion of our long-term bank and other loans were RMB 56,609 million and RMB 56,147 million, respectively, representing 68.5% and 68.4% of the sum of total long-term and short-term bank loans and other borrowings as of the respective dates. Although, in our experience, a substantial portion of our short-term borrowings is rolled over upon maturity and these borrowings have been, in the past, a stable source of funding, no assurances can be given that this will continue to be the case. If our lenders do not roll over our short-term borrowings, or if we are unable to secure sufficient borrowings, our liquidity position would be adversely affected, and we may be required to seek more expensive sources of short-term or long-term funding to finance our operations. In addition, implementing our strategies may require substantial capital expenditures. To the extent these expenditures exceed our cash resources, we will be required to seek additional debt or equity financing. If we are unable to obtain sufficient funding for our operations or development plans on commercially acceptable terms, or at all, our liquidity and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our ultimate controlling shareholder, China Netcom Group, may cause us to enter into transactions or take (or fail to take) other actions or make decisions that conflict with the best interests of our other shareholders. As of May 31, 2006, China Netcom Group beneficially owned approximately 70.39% of our outstanding shares. As a result, China Netcom Group, subject to our articles of association and applicable laws and regulations, will effectively be able to control our management, policies and business by controlling the composition of our board of directors, determining the timing and amount of our dividend payments, approving significant corporate transactions, including mergers and acquisitions, and approving our annual budgets. Therefore, China Netcom Group may cause us to enter into transactions or take (or fail to take) other actions or make decisions that conflict with the best interests of our other shareholders. We rely on China Netcom Group to provide certain services and facilities for which we currently have limited alternative sources of supply. Changes in the availability, pricing or quality of these services or facilities may have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability. Pursuant to various agreements and arrangements, China Netcom Group provides us with services and facilities necessary for our business activities, including but not limited to, the use of fiber-optic networks in our northern and southern service regions, submarine cables in the Asia-Pacific region, international gateways, leases for properties located in our northern and southern service regions and the Asia-Pacific region. The interests of China Netcom Group as provider of these services and facilities may conflict with our interests. We currently have limited alternative sources of supply for these services and facilities and, as a result, may have limited ability to negotiate with China Netcom Group regarding the terms for providing these services and facilities. Changes in the availability, pricing or quality of these services or facilities may have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability. Failure by China Netcom Group to fulfill its obligations under certain existing arrangements may have a material adverse effect on our business operations, growth prospects and profitability. China Netcom Group has committed to certain arrangements to support our existing operations and future development, including through a letter of undertakings, a non-competition agreement and a restructuring agreement. In the letter of undertakings, China Netcom Group agreed to, among other things, extend its full support to our current operations and future developments. China Netcom Group has also entered into a non-competition agreement whereby China Netcom Group has agreed not to compete with us in our service regions and our international markets without our consent. In addition, under a restructuring agreement, China Netcom Group agreed to indemnify CNC China and us for losses arising from certain matters. Failure by China Netcom Group to fulfill its obligations under any of these arrangements may have a material adverse effect on our business operations, growth prospects and profitability. The PRC National Audit Office and other governmental or third parties may audit or investigate our ultimate controlling shareholder and us from time to time. The outcome of these governmental or third party investigations may adversely affect our corporate image, the reputation and credibility of our management, our business and financial condition and the prices of our shares and ADSs. PRC's National Audit Office, or the NAO, from time to time performs audits on state-owned companies, such as China Netcom Group, our ultimate controlling shareholder. If, as a result of an NAO audit, material irregularities are found within China Netcom Group or China Netcom Group becomes the target of any negative publicity, there would be a material adverse effect on our corporate image, the reputation and credibility of our management, our business and financial condition and the prices of our shares and ADSs. In addition, we may be the subject of other governmental or third party investigations or similar events that, depending on their outcome, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition and the prices of our shares and ADSs. Risks Relating to the PRC Telecommunications Industry Extensive government regulation of the telecommunications industry in China may restrict our ability to respond to market conditions or competition, and may have a material adverse effect on our operations, business and financial condition. As a telecommunications operator in China, we are subject to extensive regulation by and under the supervision of the MII, which is the primary telecommunications industry regulator in China. The MII is responsible for formulating policies and regulations for the telecommunications industry, granting telecommunications licenses, allocating frequency spectrum and numbers, formulating interconnection and settlement arrangements between telecommunications operators, and enforcing industry regulations. Other PRC governmental authorities also regulate tariff policies, capital investment and foreign investment in the telecommunications industry. See "Item 4. Information on the Company -- Regulation". The regulatory framework within which we operate may constrain our ability to implement our business strategies and limit our ability to respond to market conditions or to changes in our cost structure. Moreover, we operate our businesses pursuant to approvals granted by the State Council and under licenses granted by the MII. If these approvals or licenses were revoked or suspended, our business and operations would be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we are subject to various regulatory requirements as to service quality, pricing and other actions, and failure to comply with such requirements may subject us to mandatory penalties or other punitive measures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. In addition, some of our competitors, such as China Unicom and China Railcom, enjoy preferential treatment from the PRC government with respect to tariff setting. These companies are currently permitted to set their respective tariffs for certain services, such as long distance calls over the public switched telephone network, or the traditional network, at price levels above or below the government fixed tariffs on a long-term basis, subject to filings with, and approvals from, the relevant regulatory authorities. This preferential treatment is not available to us. Our competitors who enjoy this preferential treatment may be able to provide certain services at prices that are more competitive than our prices, and our business and financial condition may be adversely affected as a result. Future changes to the regulations and policies governing the telecommunications industry in China, including possible future industry restructurings, may have a material adverse effect on our businesses. Possible future changes to regulations and policies governing the telecommunications industry in China may have a material adverse effect on our businesses and operations. As part of the comprehensive plan to restructure the telecommunications industry in China, as approved by the State Council in 2001, the central government stated its intention to further adjust and improve its regulatory oversight of the telecommunications industry, including gradual further deregulation of telecommunications tariffs. The Ministry of Information Industry, or the MII, under the direction of the State Council, is currently preparing a telecommunications law to provide a uniform regulatory framework for the telecommunications industry. If and when the telecommunications law is adopted by the National People's Congress, it will provide a new framework for telecommunications regulations in China. The proposed nature and scope of the telecommunications law have not yet been announced by the PRC government. The telecommunications law and other new telecommunications regulations or rules, or future changes thereto, such as enforcement of existing regulations and policies, may materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. Issues may also arise regarding the interpretation and enforcement of China's WTO commitments regarding telecommunications services, which may affect telecommunications regulations and the telecommunications industry in China. Any future regulatory changes, such as those relating to the issuance of additional telecommunications licenses, tariff setting, interconnection and settlement arrangements, changes in technical and service standards, universal service obligations and spectrum and number allocations, may have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. The PRC government may issue additional mobile telecommunications licenses in the future. The timing of issuance and terms of these licenses, if any, have not yet been announced. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain a mobile license. In addition, if we do obtain a mobile license, we may not be able to effectively establish mobile operations or that our mobile operations will generate satisfactory returns for our shareholders. The issuance of additional licenses would also increase the competition we face. The PRC telecommunications industry has been extensively restructured in recent years and may be subject to further restructuring. Such further industry restructuring may materially affect the operations of all telecommunications operators in China, including us. Accordingly, we cannot predict the scope and effect of any further restructuring on our operations. New regulations, regulatory changes or changes in enforcement policies relating to telecommunications tariffs may adversely affect our competitiveness, business and profitability. Tariffs are the prices we charge our customers for our telecommunications services. We are subject to extensive government regulations on tariffs, especially those relating to our basic telecommunications services, such as local and long distance fixed-line telephone services, managed data services, leased line services and interconnection agreements. The relevant provincial telecommunications administrations and provincial price bureaus currently determine the monthly fees and usage fees for our fixed-line local telephone services based on a fixed tariff set by the MII in consultation with the National Development and Reform Commission, or NDRC. The MII and the NDRC jointly set tariffs for all long distance services using the traditional network, leased lines and data services. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from services that are subject to tariffs determined by the PRC government. In the past, our revenues have been adversely affected by reductions in tariffs mandated by the PRC government. In 2002, the MII indicated in writing that it did not intend to initiate any adjustment to tariffs for local fixed-line telephone services during the three to five years commencing in September 2002. However, we cannot predict with accuracy the timing, likelihood or magnitude of tariff adjustments or the extent or potential impact on our business of future tariff adjustments. If the government substantially lowers the tariffs for local fixed-line telephone services, our business and profitability may be adversely affected. In addition, the tariffs for some of our services in certain locations have been set at levels above or below the levels mandated by the government. The MII may order us to adjust these tariffs and may impose fines on us for repeated failures to comply with the mandated tariff levels for these services, or even suspend our business where the situation becomes serious, as determined at the discretion of the MII. According to a regulatory circular issued by the MII, the MII reaffirmed its intention to strictly enforce these minimum tariff levels. In addition, such enforcement may be undertaken in a selective manner. The enforcement of such tariff levels and the imposition of fines or other penalties, whether done on a selective or industry-wide basis, may materially and adversely affect our competitiveness and, consequently, our business and profitability. The PRC government may require major operators, including us, to provide universal services with specified obligations, and we may not be compensated adequately for providing such services. Under the Telecommunications Regulations, as promulgated by the State Council on September 25, 2000, telecommunications operators in China are required to fulfill universal service obligations in accordance with relevant regulations to be promulgated by the PRC government, and the MII has the authority to delineate the scope of universal service obligations. The MII, together with governmental finance and pricing authorities, is also responsible for formulating administrative rules relating to the establishment of a universal service fund and compensation schemes for universal services. These rules have not yet been promulgated, and there are currently no specific regulatory requirements relating to the provision of universal services in China. While the scope of specific universal services obligations is not yet clear, we believe that such services may include mandatory provision of basic telecommunications services in less economically developed areas in China. We may not be adequately compensated by the government or be able to realize an adequate return on investments for expanding networks to, and providing telecommunications services in, those less economically developed areas due to potentially higher capital expenditure requirements, lower usage by customers and lack of flexibility in setting our tariffs. The MII requires China Telecom, China Netcom Group, China Mobile, China Unicom, China Railcom and China Satcom to participate in a project to provide telephone services in a number of remote villages in China as transitional measures prior to the formalization of a universal service obligation framework. In order to fulfill such obligations under these transitional measures, China Netcom Group has agreed with us that it will assume the responsibility for investing in and constructing the necessary network facilities. If we operate and maintain such network facilities in our northern and southern service regions, China Netcom Group has agreed to compensate us for the related expenses based on their fair market value. However, China Netcom Group may fail to fulfill its obligations under this project, and we may not be adequately compensated by China Netcom Group for the cost and expenses resulting from our operation and maintenance of any such network. Either of these events may adversely affect our financial condition. We face regulatory uncertainties associated with our Asia-Pacific operations that may disrupt our operations. Our Asia-Pacific telecommunications operations are subject to extensive government regulation, which may limit our flexibility to respond to market conditions, competition, new technologies or changes in our cost structure. In most countries and regions, we are required to obtain one or more telecommunications authorizations for our telecommunications networks and services and are subject to a variety of regulatory obligations. In most of the countries in which we have or plan to have operations, the telecommunications regulations are still evolving. In some countries and regions, the range of services that we are legally permitted to provide is limited. In other countries and regions, telecommunications legislation may be applied in an unequal or discriminatory fashion. Any changes in law, regulations or government and regulatory policies could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In particular, decisions or actions by regulators concerning economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our interests may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Failure to meet these regulatory requirements may result in fines or other sanctions, including revocation of our licenses. We may also be required to obtain new licenses to expand into new areas of business. We may fail to obtain these licenses and our existing licenses may not be renewed. Any of these events may disrupt our operations in the Asia-Pacific region. Risks Relating to China and Asia Our operations may be adversely affected by China's economic, political and social conditions. Most of our assets are located in China and most of our revenues are derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our results of operations and prospects are subject, to a significant extent, to economic, political and social developments in China. In particular, our operating results may be adversely affected by: o changes in China's political, economic and social conditions; o changes in policies of the government or changes in laws and regulations, or the interpretation of laws and regulations; o changes in foreign exchange regulations; o measures that may be introduced to control inflation, such as interest rate increases; and o changes in the rate or method of taxation. The Chinese economy has historically been a planned economy. The majority of productive assets in China is still owned by various levels of the PRC government. In recent years the government has implemented economic reform measures emphasizing decentralization, utilization of market forces in the development of the economy and a high level of management autonomy. Such economic reform measures may be inconsistent or ineffectual, and we may not benefit from all such reforms. Furthermore, these measures may be adjusted or modified, possibly resulting in such economic liberalization measures being applied inconsistently from industry to industry, or across different regions of the country. In the past twenty years, China has been one of the world's fastest growing economies in gross domestic product, or GDP. We cannot assure you that such growth will be sustained in the future. Moreover, a slowdown in the economies of the United States, the European Union and certain Asian countries may adversely affect economic growth in China. Our financial condition and results of operations, as well as our future prospects, would be materially and adversely affected by an economic downturn in China. Economic growth in China has also historically been accompanied by periods of high inflation. The government has implemented various policies from time to time to control the rate of economic growth, limit inflation and otherwise regulate economic expansion. Some of these measures benefit the overall economy of China, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or by changes in the tax regulations applicable to us. Political and economic conditions in the Asia-Pacific region are unpredictable and our operations may be disrupted if these conditions become unfavorable to our business. A key element of our international business strategy involves the expansion of our operations in the Asia-Pacific region. Substantially all of our business activities outside China are concentrated in the Asia-Pacific region. Changes in political or economic conditions in the region are difficult to predict and may adversely affect our operations or cause this region to become less attractive to businesses, which may reduce our revenues. For example, the recession that many Asia-Pacific countries and regions experienced in 1998 and early 1999 was characterized by currency fluctuations, liquidity shortages and an overall economic decline. Declining economic growth rates in the future may reduce our revenues and cause us to lower our expenditures on our network infrastructure and operations, which may negatively impact our business and our profitability over time. Our Asia-Pacific operations also expose us to additional risks inherent in international operations, including: o difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through some Asian legal systems; o fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect our results of operations and the value of our Asian assets and investments; o implementation of foreign exchange controls or other restrictions; and o difficulties in obtaining licenses or interconnection arrangements on acceptable terms, or at all. Any of the above risks may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Further, some of the countries in the Asia-Pacific region in which we operate and have investments have experienced or continue to experience political instability. The continuation or re-emergence of such political instability may have a material adverse effect on economic or social conditions in those countries and may result in outbreaks of civil unrest in the affected areas, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations or on the ownership, control and condition of our assets in those areas. The PRC legal system has inherent uncertainties that may limit the legal protections available to you as an investor or to us in the event of any claims or disputes with third parties. The Chinese legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, the central government has promulgated laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. In particular, legislation over the past twenty-six years has significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investment in China. CNC China, our primary operating subsidiary, was incorporated in China as a "wholly foreign-owned enterprise". Although we are the sole shareholder of, and therefore have full control over, CNC China, the exercise of our shareholder rights in CNC China are subject to its articles of association and PRC laws applicable to foreign investment enterprises in China, which may be different from the laws of the United States. For example, unlike in the United States, under PRC laws, shareholders do not have the right to sue the directors or officers for misconduct on our behalf if we fail to commence such a lawsuit ourselves. As Chinese foreign investment laws and regulations are relatively new and the Chinese legal system is still evolving, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit the remedies available to you as an investor and to us in the event of any claims or disputes with third parties. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. Since we are a Hong Kong company, you will not have certain investor rights as our shareholder, such as the right to bring legal action against other shareholders on behalf of the company. We were incorporated in Hong Kong. Under the Company Ordinance of Hong Kong, any of our shareholders, including our controlling shareholder China Netcom Group Corporation (BVI) Limited, or CNC BVI, do not have the right to bring legal action against any other shareholder on our behalf to enforce any claim against such party or parties if we fail to enforce such claim ourselves. You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process and enforcing judgments against us and our management. Most of our current operations are conducted in China and most of our assets are located in China. In addition, most of our directors and executive officers reside within China, and substantially all of the assets of these persons are located within China. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon these directors or executive officers, including with respect to matters arising under U.S. federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. Moreover, our PRC counsel, Haiwen & Partners, has advised us that China does not have treaties with the United States or many other countries providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of court judgments. Our Hong Kong counsel, Linklaters, has also advised us that Hong Kong has no arrangement for the reciprocal enforcement of judgments with the United States. As a result, recognition and enforcement in China of judgments of a court of the United States or any other jurisdiction, including judgments against us or our directors, executive officers, underwriters or experts, may be difficult or impossible. Government control of currency conversion may adversely affect our operations and financial results. We receive substantially all of our revenues in Renminbi, which is not a freely convertible currency. A portion of such revenues will need to be converted into other currencies to meet our foreign currency obligations. Our foreign currency requirements primarily include: o debt service on foreign currency-denominated debt; o purchases of imported equipment; and o payment of any dividends declared in respect of our shares. Our primary operating subsidiary will be permitted to undertake current account foreign exchange transactions by producing commercial documents evidencing such transactions, provided that they are processed through certain banks in China. However, foreign exchange transactions under the capital account, including principal payments with respect to foreign currency-denominated obligations, will be subject to limitations of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange. These limitations may affect our ability to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing, or to obtain foreign exchange for capital expenditures. In the future, we expect to derive an increasing proportion of our revenues from our Asia-Pacific operations. The governments of some of the Asian countries in which we operate have in the past imposed various forms of foreign exchange controls. We cannot assure you that foreign exchange controls will not be imposed again in the future. If imposed, these restrictions may adversely affect our ability to meet our foreign currency obligations. Fluctuations in exchange rates may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and the prices of our shares and ADSs or any dividends payable on our shares and ADSs in foreign currency terms. We conduct our business primarily in Renminbi, which is also our functional and reporting currency. The Renminbi is not a fully convertible currency. From 1994 to July 20, 2005, the official exchange rate for the conversion of Renminbi to U.S. dollars was generally stable. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government introduced a managed floating exchange rate system to allow the value of the Renminbi to fluctuate within a regulated band based on market supply and demand and by reference to a basket of currencies. On the same day, the value of the Renminbi appreciated by 2% against the U.S. dollar. The PRC government has since made and in the future may make further adjustments to the exchange rate system. Substantially all of our revenues are denominated in Renminbi, while a portion of our capital expenditures are denominated in foreign currencies, such as U.S. dollars and Hong Kong dollars. Future movements in the exchange rate of Renminbi and other currencies may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, particularly our international long distance services and Asia-Pacific telecommunications services. In addition, any revaluation of the Renminbi may adversely affect the prices of our shares and ADSs or any dividends payable on our shares and ADSs in foreign currency terms. Our corporate structure may restrict our ability to receive dividends from, and transfer funds to, our Chinese operating subsidiary, which may restrict our ability to act in response to changing market conditions. Substantially all of our operations are conducted through our Chinese operating subsidiary, China Netcom (Group) Company Limited, or CNC China. The ability of our Chinese subsidiary to make dividend and other payments to us may be restricted by factors that include changes in applicable foreign exchange and other laws and regulations. As a wholly foreign-owned enterprise in China, CNC China is required to provide for a reserve fund and a staff and workers' bonus and welfare fund, each of which is appropriated from net profit after taxation but before dividend distribution according to the prevailing accounting rules and regulations in the PRC. CNC China is required to allocate at least 10% of its net profit to the reserve fund until the balance of this fund has reached 50% of its registered capital. In addition, the profit available for distribution from our Chinese subsidiary is determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in China. This calculation may differ from one performed in accordance with either HKFRS or U.S. GAAP. As a result, we may not receive sufficient distributions from our Chinese subsidiary to enable us to make dividend distributions to our shareholders in the future, even if our HKFRS or U.S. GAAP financial statements indicate that our operations have been profitable. Distributions by our Chinese subsidiary to us other than as dividends may be subject to governmental approval and taxation. Any transfer of funds from our company to our Chinese subsidiary, either as a shareholder loan or as an increase in registered capital, is subject to registration or approval with or by Chinese governmental authorities, including the relevant administration of foreign exchange and/or other relevant examining and approval authorities. These limitations on the free flow of funds between us and our Chinese subsidiary may restrict our ability to act in response to changing market conditions. Risk relating to our ADSs Holders of our ADSs will not have the same voting rights as the holders of our shares and may not receive voting materials in time to be able to exercise their right to vote. Except as described in this document and in the deposit agreement, holders of our ADSs will not be able to exercise voting rights attaching to the shares evidenced by our ADSs on an individual basis. Holders of our ADSs will receive proxy materials with respect to matters to be voted on at a meeting of shareholders through the depositary and may only exercise voting rights by appointing the depositary or its nominee as their representative to exercise the voting rights attaching to the shares represented by the ADSs. Consequently, if the materials are slow to be forwarded to holders of ADSs by the depositary or are otherwise delayed or if the depositary sets deadlines by which holders of ADSs must give their instructions regarding how to vote that fall too soon after mailing of the proxy materials, you may not receive voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote. Thus, it is possible that you, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, may not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote. 