ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following discussion of “risk factors” identifies the most significant factors that may adversely affect Ashland’s business, operations, financial position or future financial performance. This information should be read in conjunction with Management’s Discussion and Analysis and the consolidated financial statements and related notes incorporated by reference into this annual report on Form 10-K. The following discussion of risks is designed to highlight what Ashland believes are important factors to consider when evaluating its expectations. These factors could cause future results to differ from those in forward-looking statements and from historical trend s. The competitive nature of Ashland’s markets may delay or prevent the Company from passing increases in raw materials costs on to its customers. In addition, certain of Ashland’s suppliers may be unable to deliver products or raw materials or may withdraw from contractual arrangements. The occurrence of either event could adversely affect Ashland’s results of operations. Rising and volatile raw material prices, especially those of hydrocarbon derivatives or cotton linters or wood pulp, may negatively impact Ashland’s costs. Similarly, energy costs are a significant component of certain of Ashland’s product costs. Ashland is not always able to raise prices in response to such increased costs, and its ability to pass on the costs of such price increases is dependent upon market conditions. Likewise, Ashland purchases certain products and raw materials from suppliers, often pursuant to written supply contracts. If those suppliers are unable to timely meet Ashland’s orders or choose to terminate or otherwise avoid contractual arrangements, Ashland may not be able to make alternative supply arrangements. Also, domestic and global government regulations related to the manufacture or transport of certain raw materials may impede Ashland’s ability to obtain those raw materials on commercially reasonable terms. If Ashland is unable to obtain and retain qualified suppliers under commercially acceptable terms, its ability to manufacture and deliver products in a timely, competitive and profitable manner could be adversely affected. Several of Ashland’s businesses are cyclical in nature, and economic downturns or declines in demand, particularly for certain durable goods, may negatively impact its revenues and profitability. Ashland’s revenues and profitability are susceptible to downturns in the economy, particularly in those segments serving the housing, construction, automotive and paper industries. Both overall demand for Ashland’s products and services and its profitability are affected by economic recession, inflation, changes in prices of raw materials (including many hydrocarbon derivatives, wood pulp and cotton linters) or changes in governmental monetary or fiscal policies. During the recent economic downturn, a number of Ashland’s customers in the construction, automotive, paper and certain other industries experienced financial and production stresses, which led to decreased demand for Ash land’s products and has affected Ashland’s margins on products sold. Demand for Ashland’s products by many of these customers has not returned to pre-downturn levels, and may not. While Ashland strives to reduce costs to help offset the effects of this decreased demand, 8 there is no assurance Ashland will be able to manage costs in light of any further demand decreases. If another economic downturn occurs, the economic recovery is slower than expected or there is a significant decline in customer demand, Ashland’s business, results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted. Ashland faces competition from other companies, which places downward pressure on prices and margins and may otherwise adversely affect Ashland’s business. Ashland operates in highly competitive markets, competing against a number of domestic and foreign companies. Competition is based on several key criteria, including product performance and quality, product price, product availability and security of supply, responsiveness of product development in cooperation with customers and customer service. Certain key competitors are significantly larger than Ashland and have greater financial resources, leading to greater operating and financial flexibility. As a result, these competitors may be better able to withstand changes in conditions within the relevant industry, changes in the prices of raw materials and energy and in general economic co nditions. In addition, competitors' pricing decisions could compel Ashland to decrease its prices, which could negatively affect its margins and profitability. Also, additional competition in markets served by Ashland could adversely affect margins and profitability and could lead to a reduction in market share. Ashland’s success depends upon its ability to attract and retain key employees and the identification and development of talent to succeed senior management. Ashland’s success depends on its ability to attract and retain key personnel, and Ashland relies heavily on its management team. The inability to recruit and retain key personnel or the unexpected loss of key personnel may adversely affect Ashland’s operations. Also, approximately one-third of Ashland’s U.S. based employees will be retirement-eligible within the next five years, which increases the risk that key employees could leave the Company. In addition, because of its reliance on its management team, Ashland’s future success depends in part on its ability to identify and develop talent to succeed its senior management. The retention of key personn el and appropriate senior management succession planning will continue to be critical to the successful implementation of Ashland’s strategies. Changes in laws or regulations or the manner of their interpretation or enforcement could adversely impact Ashland’s financial performance and restrict its ability to operate its business or execute its strategies. New laws or regulations, or changes in existing laws or regulations or the manner of their interpretation or enforcement, could increase Ashland’s cost of doing business and restrict its ability to operate its business or execute its strategies. This includes, among other things, the possible taxation under U.S. law of certain income from foreign operations, compliance costs and enforcement under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, and costs associated with complying with the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 and the regulations promulgated thereunder. Ashland’s substantial international operations subject it to risks of doing business in foreign countries, which could adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. About one-third of Ashland’s net sales for fiscal 2010 were to customers outside of North America. Also, Ashland currently has approximately 50 facilities located outside the United States. Ashland expects sales from international markets to continue to represent an even larger portion of the Company’s net sales in the future. If the sale of Ashland Distribution is consummated, the Company expects that almost half of its sales will be from outside North America. Accordingly, Ashland’s business is subject to risks related to the differing legal, political, social and regulatory requirements and economic conditions of many jurisdictions. The global nature of Ashland’s business presents difficulties in hiring and maintaining a workforce in certain countries. Fluctuations in exchange rates may affect product demand and may adversely affect the profitability in U.S. dollars of products and services provided in foreign countries. In addition, foreign countries may impose additional withholding taxes or otherwise tax Ashland’s foreign income, or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade or investment, including currency exchange controls. The imposition of tariffs is also a risk that could impair Ashland’s financial performance. Certain legal and political risks are also inherent in the operation of a company with Ashland’s global scope. For example, it may be more difficult for Ashland to enforce its agreements or collect receivables through foreign legal systems. There is a risk that foreign governments may nationalize private enterprises in certain countries where Ashland operates. In certain countries or regions, terrorist activities and the response to such activities may threaten Ashland’s operations more than in those in the United States. Also, changes in general economic and political conditions in countries where Ashland operates, particularly in emerging markets, are a risk to A shland’s financial performance. As Ashland continues to operate its business globally, its success will depend in part on its ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other related risks. There can be no assurance that the consequences of these and other factors relating to its multinational operations will not have an adverse effect on Ashland. 9 Ashland is responsible for, and has financial exposure to, liabilities from pending and threatened claims, including those alleging personal injury caused by exposure to asbestos, which reduce Ashland’s cash flows and could reduce profitability. There are various claims, lawsuits and administrative proceedings pending or threatened, including those alleging personal injury caused by exposure to asbestos, against Ashland and its current and former subsidiaries. Such actions are with respect to commercial matters, product liability, toxic tort liability and other matters that seek remedies or damages, some of which are for substantial amounts. While these actions are being contested, their outcome is not predictable. Ashland’s businesses could be adversely affected by financial exposure to these liabilities. Projecting future asbestos costs is subject to numerous variables that are extremely difficult to predict. In addition to the significant uncertainties surrounding the number of claims that might be received, other variables include the type and severity of the disease alleged by each claimant, the long latency period associated with asbestos exposure, dismissal rates, costs of medical treatment, the impact of bankruptcies of other companies that are co-defendants in claims, uncertainties surrounding the litigation process from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and from case to case, and the impact of potential changes in legislative or judicial standards. Furthermore, any predictions with respect to th ese variables are subject to even greater uncertainty as the projection period lengthens. In light of these inherent uncertainties, Ashland believes that its asbestos reserves represent the best estimate within a range of possible outcomes. As a part of the process to develop these estimates of future asbestos costs, a range of long-term cost models was developed. These models are based on national studies that predict the number of people likely to develop asbestos-related diseases and are heavily influenced by assumptions regarding long-term inflation rates for indemnity payments and legal defense costs, as well as other variables mentioned previously. Because of the inherent uncertainties in projecting future asbestos liabilities and establishing appropriate reserves, Ashland’s actual asbestos costs may exceed its reserves, which could adversely affect its profitability and financial performance. Ashland has incurred, and may continue to incur, substantial operating costs and capital expenditures as a result of environmental, health and safety, and hazardous substances liabilities and requirements, which could reduce Ashland’s profitability. Ashland is subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations, rules and ordinances relating to pollution, protection of the environment and human health and safety, and the generation, storage, handling, treatment, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances and waste materials. Ashland has incurred, and will continue to incur, significant costs and capital expenditures to comply with these laws and regulations. Environmental, health and safety regulations change frequently, and such regulations and their enforcement have tended to become more stringent over time. Accordingly, the enforcement of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations could interrupt Ashland’s operations, require modifications to its facilities or cause Ashland to incur significant liabilities, costs or losses that could adversely affect the profitability of the Company. Actual or alleged violations of environmental, health or safety laws and regulations could result in restrictions or prohibitions on plant operations as well as substantial damages, penalties, fines, civil or criminal sanctions and remediation costs. In addition, under some environmental laws, Ashland may be strictly liable and/or jointly and severally liable for environmental damages and penalties. Ashland is also subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that require environmental assessment or remediation efforts (collectively environmental remediation) at multiple locations. Ashland uses engineering studies, historical experience and other factors to identify and evaluate remediation alternatives and their related costs in determining the estimated reserves for environmental remediation. Environmental remediation reserves are subject to numerous inherent uncertainties that affect Ashland’s ability to estimate its share of the applicable costs. Such uncertainties involve the nature and extent of contamination at each site, the extent of required cleanup efforts under existing environmental regulations, widely varying costs of alternate cleanup methods, changes in environmental regulations, the potential effect of continuing improvements in remediation technology and the number and financial strength of other potentially responsible parties at multiparty sites. As a result, Ashland’s actual costs for environmental remediation could exceed its reserves and, therefore, adversely affect Ashland’s financial performance. Ashland’s business exposes it to potential product liability claims and recalls, which could adversely affect its financial condition and performance. The development, manufacture and sales of specialty chemical products by Ashland, including products produced as food ingredients or with pharmaceutical and nutritional supplement applications, involve an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims, product recalls, product seizures and related adverse publicity. A product liability claim or judgment against Ashland could also result in substantial and unexpected expenditures, affect consumer or customer confidence in its products, and divert management’s attention from other responsibilities. Although Ashland maintains product liability insurance, there can be no assurance that this type or the level of coverage is adequate or that Ashla nd will be able to continue to maintain its existing insurance or obtain comparable insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all. A product recall or a 10 partially or completely uninsured judgment against Ashland could have a material adverse effect on results of operations and financial condition. Business disruptions could seriously harm Ashland’s operations and financial performance. Business disruptions, including those related to natural disasters, severe weather conditions, supply disruptions, increasing costs for energy, temporary plant and/or power outages, information technology systems and network disruptions, terrorist attacks, armed conflict, war, pandemic diseases or other catastrophic events, could seriously harm Ashland’s operations, as well as the operations of its customers and suppliers, and adversely impact Ashland’s financial performance. Although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, they could result in reduced demand for Ashland’s products, make it difficult or impossible for Ashland to manufacture its products or delive r products and services to its customers or to receive raw materials from suppliers, or create delays and inefficiencies in the supply chain. While Ashland maintains business continuity plans that are intended to allow the Company to continue operations or mitigate the effect of events that could disrupt its business, the Company cannot provide assurances that its plans would fully protect the Company from all such events. In addition, insurance maintained by the Company to protect against loss of business and other related consequences resulting from business disruptions is subject to coverage limitations, depending on the nature of the risk insured. This insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of the Company’s damages or damages to others in the event Ashland’s business is disrupted. In addition, insurance r elated to these types of risks may not be available now or, if available, may not be available in the future at commercially reasonable rates. Ashland’s pension and postretirement benefit plan obligations are currently underfunded, and Ashland may have to make significant cash payments to some or all of these plans, which would reduce the cash available for Ashland’s businesses. Ashland has unfunded obligations under its domestic and foreign pension and postretirement benefit plans. The funded status of Ashland’s pension plans is dependent upon many factors, including returns on invested assets, the level of certain market interest rates and the discount rate used to determine pension obligations. Unfavorable returns on the plan assets or unfavorable changes in applicable laws or regulations could materially change the timing and amount of required plan funding, which would reduce the cash available for Ashland’s businesses. In addition, a decrease in the discount rate used to determine pension obligations could result in an increase in the valuation of pension obligations, which could affect the reported funding status of Ashland’s pension plans and future contributions, as well as the periodic pension cost in subsequent fiscal years. Under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or ERISA, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, or PBGC, has the authority to terminate an underfunded tax-qualified pension plan under limited circumstances. In the event Ashland’s tax-qualified pension plans are terminated by the PBGC, Ashland could be liable to the PBGC for some portion of the underfunded amount and, under certain circumstances, the liability could be senior to Ashland’s senior unsecured notes. Ashland is undergoing a strategic transformation to focus on investing in and growing its specialty chemicals businesses. If Ashland is unable to achieve the expected benefits from its growth strategy, its business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Ashland’s strategic objective has been to create a more focused company built around a strong core of specialty chemicals businesses. Ashland intends to invest in and to grow its specialty chemicals businesses, operating its other businesses to generate strong cash flows to fund this investment. As a result, Ashland is currently in a transformational period in which it has made and may continue to make changes that could be material to its business, financial condition and results of operations. Over the past six years, changes have included the disposition of Ashland’s refining and marketing and highway construction businesses, the acquisition of Hercules Incorporated (Hercu les) and the proposed sale of the Distribution business. The success of Ashland’s growth strategy may be limited by, among other things, the availability and suitability of acquisition candidates and Ashland’s financial resources, including available cash and borrowing capacity. In addition, acquisitions involve numerous risks including determining appropriate valuations, integrating operations and personnel, achieving expected synergies, providing new product or service offerings and dedicating management attention away from other business matters. Dispositions also involve certain risks, including stranded costs and the possibility that the benefits anticipated from a sale will not be fully realized. If Ashland is unable to achie ve the expected benefits from its growth strategy, the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. Ashland may not be able to effectively protect or enforce its intellectual property rights. Ashland relies on the patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright laws of the United States and other countries to protect its intellectual property rights. The laws of some countries may not protect Ashland’s intellectual property rights to 11 the same extent as the laws of the United States. Failure of foreign countries to have laws to protect Ashland’s intellectual property rights or an inability to effectively enforce such rights in foreign countries could result in the loss of valuable proprietary information, which could have an adverse effect on Ashland’s business and results of operations. Even in circumstances where Ashland has a patent on certain technologies, such patents may not provide meaningful protection against competitors or against competing technologies. In addition, any patent applications submitted by Ashland may not result in an issued patent. There can be no assurance that Ashland’s intellectual property rights will not be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. Ashland could also face claims from third parties alleging that Ashland’s products or processes infringe on their proprietary rights. If Ashland is found liable for infringement, it could be responsible for significant damages, prohibited from using ce rtain products or processes or required to modify certain products and processes. Any such infringement liability could adversely affect Ashland’s product and service offerings, profitability and results of operations. Ashland also protects its know-how and trade secrets by entering into confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with most of its employees and third parties. There can be no assurance that such agreements will not be breached or that Ashland will be able to effectively enforce them. Any unauthorized disclosure of any of Ashland’s material know-how or trade secrets could adversely affect Ashland’s business and results of operations. Ashland’s restrictive debt covenants may affect its ability to operate its business successfully. The terms of Ashland’s credit facilities and senior unsecured notes contain various provisions that limit its ability to, among other things: grant liens; incur additional indebtedness; provide guarantees or support other contingent obligations; engage in mergers and acquisitions and consolidations; sell, transfer and otherwise dispose of property and assets; make loans, acquisitions, joint ventures and other investments; declare dividends, make distributions or redeem or repurchase capital stock; change the nature of Ashland’s business; and enter into transactions with its affiliates. These covenants could adversely affect Ashland’s ability to finance its future operations or capital needs and pursue available business opportunities. In addition, Ashland’s credit facilities require it to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests. Events beyond Ashland’s control, including changes in general economic and business conditions, may affect its ability to meet those financial ratios and financial condition tests. Ashland cannot assure that it will meet those tests or that the lenders will waive any failure to meet those tests. A breach of any of these covenants or any other restrictive covenants contained in Ashland’s credit facilities or senior unsecured notes would result in an event of default. If an event of default under Ashland’s credit facilities occurs, the holders of the affected indebtedness could declare all amounts outstanding, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable, which, in turn, could cause the default and acceleration of the maturity of certain of Ashland’s other indebtedness. If Ashland was unable to pay such amounts, the lenders under its credit facilities could proceed against the collateral pledged to them. Ashland has pledged a substantial portion of its assets to the lenders under its credit facilities. If an event of default occurs under the senior unsecured notes, the trustee under the notes or holders of at least 25% of the outstanding aggregate principal amount of notes may declare the principal of the notes and any accrued interest immediately payable, which, in turn, could cause the default and acceleration of the maturity of certain of Ashland’s other indebtedness, including its credit facility. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 