Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces significant risks. The following risk factors could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and the price of our common stock. We may encounter risks in addition to those described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair or adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Adverse domestic and global economic conditions and disruption of financial markets could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. During the past several years, domestic and international financial markets have experienced extreme disruption, including, among other things, extreme volatility and severely diminished liquidity and credit availability. These developments and the related severe domestic and international economic downturn, have continued to adversely impact our business and financial condition in a number of ways, including effects beyond those that were experienced in previous recessions. A prolonged economic downturn may adversely affect the ability of our customers and suppliers to obtain financing and to perform their obligations under agreements with us. These restrictions could result in a decrease in, or cancellation of, existing business, could limit new business, and could negatively impact our ability to collect on our accounts receivable on a timely basis, if at all. Although there have been recent signs of economic improvement, we are unable to predict the duration and severity of the current economic downturn and disruption in financial markets and their effects on our business and results of operations. These events may, in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The architectural, engineering and construction (AEC) industry is in the midst of a severe downturn. A continuing decline in the AEC industry could adversely affect our future revenue and profitability. We estimate that the AEC industry accounted for approximately 77% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2011. Our historical operating results reflect the cyclical and variable nature of the AEC industry. The AEC industry is in the midst of a severe downturn. We believe that this industry generally experiences downturns several months after a downturn in the general economy and that there may be a similar delay in the recovery in the AEC industry following a recovery in the general economy. A continued downturn in the AEC industry would further diminish demand for some of our products and services, and would therefore negatively affect our revenues and have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Because a majority of our overall costs are fixed, changes in economic activity, positive or negative, affect our results of operations. Because approximately 45% of our overall costs were fixed for the year ended December 31, 2011, changes in economic activity, positive or negative, affect our results of operations. As a consequence, our results of operations are subject to volatility and could deteriorate rapidly in a prolonged environment of declining revenues. Failure to maintain adequate cash reserves and to effectively manage our costs could adversely affect our ability to offset our fixed costs and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Impairment of goodwill may adversely impact future results of operations. We have intangible assets, including goodwill and other identifiable acquired intangibles on our balance sheet due to prior acquisitions. Based on our goodwill impairment assessments, we recorded impairments of $65.4 million during 2011. The results of our impairment analysis are as of a particular point in time. If our assumptions regarding future forecasted revenue or gross margins of our operating segments (or “reporting units”) are not achieved, we may be required to record additional goodwill impairment charges in future periods, if any such change constitutes a triggering event prior to the quarter in which we perform our annual goodwill impairment test. Competition in our industry and innovation by our competitors may hinder our ability to execute our business strategy and maintain our profitability. The markets for our products and services are highly competitive, with competition primarily at local and regional levels. We compete primarily based on the level and quality of customer service, technological leadership, product performance and price. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to improve our service offerings, and develop and integrate new technology solutions. In addition, current and prospective customers may decide to perform certain services themselves instead of outsourcing these services to us. These competitive pressures could adversely affect our sales and consolidated results of operations. We also face the possibility that competition will continue to increase, particularly if copy and printing or business services companies choose to expand into the reprographics services industry. Many of these companies are substantially larger and have significantly greater financial resources than us, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage. In addition, we could encounter competition in the future from large, well-capitalized companies such as equipment dealers and system integrators that can produce their own technology and leverage their existing distribution channels. Any such future competition could adversely affect our business and reduce our future revenue and profitability. 8 Table of Contents The reprographics industry has undergone significant changes in recent years and will continue to evolve. Our failure to anticipate and adapt to future changes in the reprographics industry could harm our competitive position and future revenue and profitability. The reprographics industry has undergone significant changes in recent years. The industry’s main production technology has migrated from analog to digital. This has prompted a number of industry trends, including a rapid shift toward decentralized production and lower labor utilization. As a result of these trends, reprographers have had to modify their operations to decentralize printing and shift costs from labor to technology. We expect the reprographics industry to continue to evolve. If we fail to keep pace with current changes or fail to anticipate or adapt to future changes in our primary industry, including changes in digital document services, our competitive position could be harmed which would have a material adverse impact on our future revenue and profitability. If we are unable to charge for our value-added services to offset potential declines in print volumes, our long-term revenue could decline. Our customers value the ability to view and order prints over the internet and print to output devices in their own offices and other locations throughout the country and the world. In 2011, our reprographics services excluding digital revenues represented approximately 54% of our total net sales, and our facilities management services represented 24% of our total net sales. Both categories of revenue are generally derived from a charge per square foot of printed material. Future technology advances may further facilitate and improve our customers’ ability to print in their own offices or at a job site. As technology continues to improve, this trend toward printing on an “as needed” basis could result in decreasing printing volumes and declining revenues in the longer term. Failure to offset these potential declines in printing volumes by changing how we charge for our services and develop additional revenue sources could significantly affect our business and reduce our long term revenue, resulting in an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We derive a significant percentage of net sales from within the State of California and our business could be disproportionately harmed by an economic downturn or natural disaster affecting California. We derived approximately 32% of our net sales in 2011 from our operations in California. As a result, we are dependent to a large extent upon the AEC industry in California and, accordingly, are sensitive to economic factors affecting California, including general and local economic conditions, macroeconomic trends, and natural disasters (including earthquakes and wildfires). In recent years, the real estate development projects (both residential and non-residential) in California have significantly declined which, in turn, has resulted in a decline in sales from within the California-based AEC industry. Any adverse developments affecting California could have a disproportionately negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our growth strategy depends, in part, on our ability to successfully complete and manage our acquisitions and branch openings. Failure to do so could impede our future growth and adversely affect our competitive position. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to prudently pursue strategic acquisitions. Our efforts to execute our acquisition strategy may be affected by our ability to continue to identify, negotiate, close acquisitions and effectively integrate acquired businesses. Acquisitions, however, have not been a significant part of our growth strategy in recent years due to potential risks inherent in an economy recovering from a recent recession. If we are unable to successfully monitor and manage our operations, our business and profitability could suffer. Since 1997, we have acquired more than 140 businesses and, in most cases, have delegated the responsibility for marketing, pricing, and selling practices to local and operational managers. During the past two years we have begun to centralize many of these functions, but during this transition period, if we do not successfully manage our operations under this decentralized operating structure, we risk having disparate results, lost market opportunities, lack of economic synergies, and a loss of vision and planning, all of which could harm our business and profitability. In addition, there is a risk that the company-wide rebranding initiative that we commenced following the end of the third quarter of fiscal year 2010 could have a negative effect on our revenues and results of operations and financial condition. We are dependent upon our vendors to continue to supply us equipment, parts, supplies, and services at comparable terms and price levels as the business grows. Our access to equipment, parts, supplies, and services depends upon our relationships with, and our ability to purchase these items on competitive terms from our principal vendors. These vendors are not required to use us to distribute their equipment and are generally free to change the prices and other terms at which they sell to us. In addition, we compete with the selling efforts of some of these vendors. Significant deterioration in relationships with, or in the financial condition of, these significant vendors could have an adverse impact on our ability to sell equipment as well as our ability to provide effective service and technical support. If one of these vendors terminates or significantly curtails its relationship with us, or if one of these vendors ceases operations, we would be forced to expand our relationships with our other existing vendors or seek out new relationships with previously unused vendors. Our failure to adequately protect the proprietary aspects of our technology may cause us to lose market share. Our success depends on our ability to protect and preserve the proprietary aspects of our technology products. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret protection, confidentiality agreements, license agreements, non-competition agreements, reseller agreements, customer contracts, and technical measures to establish and protect our rights in our proprietary technologies. These protections, however, may not be adequate to remedy harm we suffer due to misappropriation of our proprietary rights by third parties. Furthermore, we may, from time to time, be subject to intellectual property litigation which can be expensive, a burden on management’s time and our Company’s resources, and the outcome of any such litigation may be uncertain. In performing our document management services, we handle customers’ confidential information. Our failure to protect our customers’ confidential information against security breaches could damage our reputation, harm our business and adversely impact our results of operations. Our document management services involve the handling of our customers’ confidential information. Any compromise of security, accidental loss or theft of customer data in our possession could damage our reputation and expose us to risk of liability, which could harm our business and adversely impact our consolidated results of operation. Added risks are associated with our international operations. We have international operations in China, India, the United Kingdom and Canada. Approximately 10% of our revenues for fiscal 2011 were derived from our international operations, with approximately 6% derived from China. Our future revenues, costs of operations and net income could be adversely affected by a number of factors related to our international operations, including changes in economic conditions from country to country, changes in a country’s political condition, trade protection measures, licensing and other legal requirements and local tax issues. 9 Table of Contents If we lose key personnel or qualified technical staff, our ability to manage the day-to-day aspects of our business will be adversely affected. We believe that our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel is critical to our success. If we lose key personnel and/or are unable to recruit qualified personnel, our ability to manage the day-to-day aspects of our business will be adversely affected. In addition, the loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management team, in particular, the sudden loss of the services of Mr. Suriyakumar, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, would disrupt our business and impede our ability to execute our business strategy. Because the other members of our executive and divisional management team have on average more than 20 years of experience within the reprographics industry, we believe it would be difficult to replace them. Damage or disruption to our facilities, including our technology center, could impair our ability to effectively provide our services and may have a significant impact on our revenues, expenses and financial condition. We currently store most of our customer data at our technology center located in Silicon Valley near known earthquake fault zones. Damage to or destruction of this technology center or a disruption of our data storage processes resulting from sustained process abnormalities, human error, acts of terrorism, violence, war or a natural disaster, such as fire, earthquake or flood, could have a material adverse effect on the markets in which we operate and on our business operations. Although we currently maintain general property damage insurance, if we incur losses from uninsured events, we could incur significant expenses which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Downgrades in our credit rating may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, independent credit rating agencies rate our credit worthiness. Credit market deterioration and its actual or perceived effects on our business, financial condition and results of operation, along with deterioration in general economic conditions, may increase the likelihood that major independent credit agencies will downgrade our credit rating. Any downgrade in our credit rating could increase our cost of borrowing, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, perhaps materially. Any downgrade in our credit rating may also cause a decline in the market price of our common stock. Results of tax examinations may adversely impact our future results of operations. We are subject to various tax examinations on an ongoing basis. Adverse results of tax examinations for income, payroll, value added, sales-based and other taxes may require future material tax payments if we are unable to sustain our position with the relevant jurisdiction. Where appropriate, we have made accruals for these matters which are reflected in our Consolidated Balance Sheets and Statements of Operations. Our debt instruments impose operating and financial restrictions on us and, in the event of a default, would have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Our credit agreement and high-yield notes indenture impose operating and other restrictions on us and many of our subsidiaries. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our debt instruments. If any such default occurs, our creditors under those instruments may declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable, in addition to other remedies. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 