ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to numerous risks. You should carefully consider the risks described below together with the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other documents we file with the SEC, which could materially affect our business, financial condition, and future results. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our company. Risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. We have limited experience in targeting a global marketplace and compete in a rapidly evolving industry which makes our future operating results difficult to predict. We have limited experience in targeting the global business intelligence marketplace. In addition, we have a limited operating history in an industry characterized by rapid technological innovation, changing customer needs, evolving industry standards and frequent introductions of new products, enhancements and services. Any of these factors can render our existing software platform and services obsolete or unmarketable. We believe that our future success will depend in large part on our ability: • to support current and future releases of popular hardware, operating systems, computer programming languages, databases and software applications • to develop new products that achieve market acceptance in a timely manner • to meet an expanding range of customer requirements. As we encounter increasing competitive pressures, we will likely be required to modify, enhance, reposition or introduce new products and service offerings. We may not be successful in doing so in a timely, cost-effective and appropriately responsive manner, or at all. All of these factors make it difficult to predict our future operating results which may impair our ability to manage our business. We may experience quarterly fluctuations in our operating results due to a number of factors which make our future results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below expectations or our guidance. Our operating results may fluctuate due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. Our past results should not be relied on as an indication of our future performance. If our revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts or below any guidance we may provide to the market, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Our operating results have varied in the past. In addition to other risk factors listed in this “Risk Factors” section, factors that may affect our quarterly operating results, business and financial condition include the following: • demand for our software platform and services and the size and timing of orders • market acceptance of our current and future products • a slowdown in spending on information technology and software by our current and/or prospective customers • sales cycles and performance of our indirect channel partners and original equipment manufacturers (known as OEMs) • budgeting cycles of our customers • the management, performance and expansion of our international operations • the rate of renewals of our maintenance agreements • changes in the competitive dynamics of our markets • our ability to control costs, including our operating expenses • customers delaying purchasing decisions in anticipation of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors • the outcome or publicity surrounding any pending or threatened lawsuits • the timing of recognizing revenue in any given quarter as a result of revenue recognition rules 13 Table of Contents • an increase in the rate of product returns • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations • failure to successfully manage any acquisitions • general economic and political conditions in our domestic and international markets. In addition, we may in the future experience fluctuations in our gross and operating margins due to changes in the mix of our direct and indirect sales, domestic and international revenues, and license and professional services revenues. We may implement changes to our license pricing structure for all of our products including increased prices and modified licensing parameters. If these changes are not accepted by our current or future customers, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Based upon all of the factors described above, we have a limited ability to forecast the amount and mix of future revenues and expenses, and it is likely that at some time our operating results will fall below our estimates or the expectations of public market analysts and investors. We depend on revenue from a single product platform. We are dependent on a single product platform, QlikView. Our business would be harmed by a decline in demand for, or in the price of, our software platform as a result of, among other factors: • any change in our pricing model • increased competition • support, research and development or other expenditures undertaken in attempts, whether or not successful, to develop new products • maturation in the markets for our products. Our financial results would suffer if the market for business intelligence software does not continue to grow or if we are unable to further penetrate this market. Nearly all of our revenues to date have come from sales of business intelligence software and related maintenance services. We expect these sales to account for substantially all of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Although demand for business intelligence software has grown in recent years, the market for business intelligence software applications is still evolving. We cannot be sure that this market will continue to grow or, even if it does grow, that customers will purchase our software platform or services. We have spent, and intend to keep spending, considerable resources to educate potential customers about business intelligence software in general and our software platform in particular. However, we cannot be sure that these expenditures will help our software platform achieve any additional market acceptance or enable us to attract new customers or new users at existing customers. A reduction in the demand for our services and software platform could be caused by, among other things, lack of customer acceptance, weakening economic conditions, competing technologies and services or decreases in software spending. If the market and our market share fail to grow or grow more slowly than we currently expect, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. We use indirect channel partners and if we are unable to maintain successful relationships with them, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. In addition to our direct sales force, we use strategic indirect channel partners, such as distribution partners, value-added resellers, system integrators and OEMs to license and support our software platform. For the year ended December 31, 2010, transactions by indirect channel partners accounted for more than 50% of our total product licenses and first year maintenance billings. Our channel partners may offer customers the products of several different companies, including products that compete with ours. Our channel partners generally do not have an exclusive relationship with us; thus, we cannot be certain that they will prioritize or provide adequate resources for selling our products. Divergence in strategy or contract defaults by any of these channel partners may harm our ability to develop, market, sell or support our software platform. In addition, establishing and retaining qualified indirect sales channel partners and training them in our software platform and services require significant time and resources. In order to develop and expand our distribution channel, we must continue to scale and improve our processes and procedures that support our channel, including investment in systems and training. These processes and procedures may become increasingly complex and difficult to manage as we grow our organization. Our ability to achieve revenue growth in the future will depend in part on our success in maintaining successful relationships with our channel partners. There can be no assurance that our channel partners will continue to cooperate with us when our distribution agreements expire or are up for renewal. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with these channel partners, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Also, in a number of regions we rely on a limited number of resellers, and our business may be harmed if any of these resellers were to fail to effectively address their specified geographic territories. 14 Table of Contents In addition, we rely on our channel partners to operate in accordance with the terms of their contractual agreements with us. For example, our agreements with our channel partners limit the terms and conditions pursuant to which they are authorized to resell or distribute our software and offer technical support and related services. We also typically require our channel partners to provide us with the dates and details of product license transactions sold to end user customers. If our channel partners do not comply with their contractual obligations to us, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be harmed. If we are unable to expand our direct sales capabilities, we may not be able to generate increased revenues. In order to succeed, we must expand our direct sales force to generate increased revenue from new customers. We intend to increase our number of direct sales professionals. New hires will require training and will take time to achieve full productivity. We cannot be certain that new hires will become as productive as necessary or that we will be able to hire enough qualified individuals in the future. Failure to hire qualified direct sales personnel will preclude us from expanding our business and growing our revenue. As we pursue new enterprise customers, additional OEM opportunities or more complicated deployments, our sales cycle and deployment processes may become more unpredictable and require greater time and expense. Our sales cycle may lengthen as we pursue new enterprise customers. Enterprise customers may undertake a significant evaluation process in regard to enterprise software which can last from several months to a year or longer. If our sales cycle were to lengthen in this manner, events may occur during this period that affect the size or timing of a purchase or even cause cancellations, and this may lead to more unpredictability in our business and operating results. Additionally, sales cycles for sales of our software platform to OEMs tend to be longer, ranging from three to 12 months or more, and may involve convincing a partner’s entire organization that our software platform is the appropriate software for its applications. We may spend substantial time, effort and money on our sales efforts without any assurance that our efforts will produce any sales. In addition, we may face unexpected deployment challenges with enterprise customers or more complicated installations of our software platform. It may be difficult to deploy our software platform if the customer has unexpected database, hardware or software technology issues. Additional deployment complexities may occur if a customer hires a third party to deploy our software platform or if one of our indirect channel partners leads the implementation of our solution. Any difficulties or delays in the initial implementation could cause customers to reject our software or lead to the delay or non-receipt of future orders, in which case our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. Managing our international operations is complex and our failure to do so successfully could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We receive a significant portion of our total revenues from international sales from foreign direct and indirect operations. International revenues accounted for approximately 75% for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 77% of our total revenues for each of the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. We have facilities located in Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Russia, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Arab Emirates and the United Kingdom. We expect to continue to add personnel in additional countries. Our international operations require significant management attention and financial resources. There are certain risks inherent in our international business activities including, but not limited to: • managing and staffing international offices and the increased costs associated with multiple international locations • maintaining relationships with indirect channel partners outside the U.S., whose sales and lead generation activities are very important to our international operations • multiple legal systems and unexpected changes in legal requirements • tariffs, export restrictions, trade barriers and other regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to sell or develop our products in certain foreign markets • trade laws and business practices favoring local competition • costs of localizing products and potential lack of acceptance of localized versions • potential tax issues, including restrictions on repatriating earnings and multiple and conflicting tax laws and regulations • employer payroll tax withholdings with respect to exercises by employees of options to purchase common stock • weaker intellectual property protection in some countries • difficulties in enforcing contracts and collecting accounts receivable, longer sales cycles and longer payment cycles, especially in emerging markets 15 Table of Contents • the significant presence of some of our competitors in certain international markets • our ability to adapt to sales practices and customer requirements in different cultures • political and economic instability, including war and terrorism or the threat of war and terrorism. We believe that, over time, a significant portion of our revenues and costs will continue to be denominated in foreign currencies. To the extent such denomination in foreign currencies does occur, gains and losses on the conversion to the U.S. dollar of accounts receivable, accounts payable and other monetary assets and liabilities arising from international operations may contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations. Although we may in the future decide to undertake foreign exchange hedging transactions to cover a portion of our foreign currency transaction exposure, we currently do not hedge any foreign currency exposure. If we are not effective in any future foreign exchange hedging transactions in which we engage, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. In addition, compliance with foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that are applicable to our international operations is complex and may increase our cost of doing business in international jurisdictions, and our international operations could expose us to fines and penalties if we fail to comply with these regulations. These laws and regulations include import and export requirements, U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to help ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, partners and other persons with whom we do business will not take actions in violation of our policies or these laws. Any violations of these laws could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, including substantial fines or prohibitions on our ability to offer our products and services to one or more countries, and could also materially damage our reputation, our brand and our international expansion efforts. Our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our international operations and reduce our international sales. If new industry standards emerge or if we are unable to respond to rapid technological changes, demand for our software platform may be adversely affected. We believe that our future success will depend in large part on our ability: • to support current and future industry standards, including databases and operating systems • to maintain technological competiveness and meet an expanding range of customer requirements • to introduce new products and features for our customers. The emergence of new industry standards in related fields may adversely affect the demand for our existing software platform. If new technologies emerged that were incompatible with customer deployments of our software platform, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. We currently support Open Database Connectivity, or ODBC, and Object Linking and Embedding Database, or OLEDB, standards in database access technology. If we are unable to adapt our software platform on a timely basis to new standards in database access technology, the ability of our software platform to access customer databases could be impaired. In addition, the emergence of new server operating systems standards could adversely affect the demand for our existing software platform. Our platform currently requires the Windows Server operating system when deployed on a server, as used in most multi-user deployments. If customers are unwilling to use Windows Server, we may not be able to achieve compatibility on a timely basis or without substantial research and development and support expense. We currently support all generally available client operating systems that run industry standard web browsers, but we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to support future client operating systems and web browsers in a timely and cost-effective manner, if at all. The markets for our software platform and services are also characterized by rapid technological and customer requirement changes. In particular, our technology is optimized for servers utilizing the x86 and x64 families of microprocessors. If the speed and performance of these microprocessor families do not continue to increase at the rates we anticipate, our software may not attain the performance speed and capabilities that we expect. Also, if different microprocessor architecture were to gain widespread acceptance in server applications, we may not be able to achieve compatibility on a timely basis or without substantial research and development and support expense. Difficulty by us in achieving compatibility with different microprocessor architecture or other technological change or in satisfying changing customer requirements could render our existing and future products obsolete and unmarketable. As a result, we may not be able to accurately predict the lifecycle of our software platform and services, and they may become obsolete before we receive the amount of revenues that we anticipate from them. Business intelligence software is inherently complex. The development and testing of new products and product enhancements can require significant research and development expenditures. As a result, substantial delays in the general availability of such new releases or significant problems in the installation or implementation of such new releases could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We may not successfully develop and market product enhancements or new products that respond to technological change or new customer requirements. Even if we introduce a new product, we may experience a decline in revenues of our existing products that is not fully matched by the new product’s revenue. For example, customers may delay making purchases of a new product to make a more thorough evaluation of the product, or until industry and marketplace reviews become widely available. In addition, we may lose existing customers who choose a competitor’s product rather than migrate to our new product. This could result in a temporary or permanent revenue shortfall and harm our business. 16 Table of Contents Our business depends on customers renewing their annual maintenance contracts and our ability to collect renewal fees. Any decline in maintenance renewals could harm our future operating results. We sell our software platform pursuant to a perpetual license with a fixed upfront fee which ordinarily includes one year of maintenance as part of the initial price. Our customers have no obligation to renew their maintenance agreements after the expiration of this initial period, and they may not renew these agreements. We may be unable to predict future customer renewal rates accurately. Our customers’ renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our software platform, the prices of our software platform, the prices of products and services offered by our competitors or reductions in our customers’ spending levels. If our customers do not renew their maintenance arrangements or if they renew them on less favorable terms, our revenue may decline and our business will suffer. A substantial portion of our quarterly maintenance revenue is attributable to maintenance agreements entered into during previous quarters. As a result, if there is a decline in renewed maintenance agreements in any one quarter, only a small portion of the decline will be reflected in our maintenance revenue recognized in that quarter and the rest will be reflected in our maintenance revenue recognized in the following four quarters or more. In addition, we may have difficulties collecting renewal fees from our customers, especially in regards to customers located in emerging international markets. If we are unable to collect renewal fees from customers, our business will be harmed. Our software platform could contain undetected errors, or bugs, which could cause problems with product performance and which could in turn reduce demand for our software platform, reduce our revenue and lead to product liability claims against us. Software products like ours, which consist of hundreds of thousands of lines of code and incorporate licensed software from third parties, may contain errors and/or defects. Although we test our software extensively, we have in the past discovered software errors in our products after their introduction. Despite testing by us and by our current and potential customers, errors may be found in new products or releases after deployment begins. This could result in lost revenue, damage to our reputation or delays in market acceptance which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We may also have to expend resources to correct these defects. Our license agreements with customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to product liability, warranty and other claims. It is possible, however, that these provisions may not be effective as a result of existing or future laws of certain domestic or international jurisdictions or unfavorable judicial decisions in such jurisdictions, and we may be exposed to product liability, warranty and other claims. If these claims are made, our potential exposure may be substantial given the use of our products in business-critical applications. A successful product liability claim against us could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We face intense competition which may lead to reduced revenue and loss of market share. The markets for business intelligence software, analytical applications and information management are intensely competitive and subject to rapidly changing technology and evolving standards. In addition, many companies in these markets are offering, or may soon offer, products and services that may compete with our software platform. We face competitors in several broad categories, including business intelligence software, analytical processes, query, search and reporting tools. We compete with large software corporations, including suppliers of enterprise resource planning software that provide one or more capabilities that are competitive with our products, such as IBM (which acquired Cognos in 2008), Microsoft, Oracle (which acquired Hyperion Solutions in 2007) and SAP AG (which acquired Business Objects in 2008), and with open source business intelligence vendors, including Pentaho and JasperSoft. Open source software is software that is made widely available by its authors and is licensed “as is” for a nominal fee or, in some cases, at no charge. As the use of open source software becomes more widespread, certain open source technology could become competitive with our proprietary technology, which could cause sales of our products to decline or force us to reduce the fees we charge for our products. We also compete, or may increasingly in the future compete, with various independent competitors that are primarily focused on business intelligence products, such as Actuate, Information Builders, MicroStrategy, the SAS Institute and TIBCO. We expect additional competition as other established and emerging companies or open source vendors enter the business intelligence software market and new products and technologies are introduced. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing or other resources and greater name recognition than we do. In addition, many of our competitors have strong relationships with current and potential customers and extensive knowledge of the business intelligence industry. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than us. Increased competition may lead to price cuts, fewer customer orders, reduced gross margins, longer sales cycles and loss of market share. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors, and our business, operating results and financial condition will be harmed if we fail to meet these competitive pressures. Current and future competitors may also make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with others. By doing so, these competitors may increase their ability to meet the needs of our potential customers. Our current or prospective indirect channel partners may establish cooperative relationships with our current or future competitors. These relationships may limit our ability to sell our software platform through specific distribution channels. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among current and future competitors may emerge and rapidly gain significant market share. These developments could limit our ability to obtain revenues from new customers and to maintain technical support revenues from our installed customer base. If we are unable to compete successfully against current and future competitors, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. 17 Table of Contents If customers demand business intelligence software to be provided via a “software as a service” business model, our business could be harmed. Software as a service, or SaaS, is a model of software deployment where a software provider typically licenses an application to customers for use as a service on demand through web browser technologies. A SaaS business model can require a vendor to undertake substantial capital investments and related sales and support resources and personnel. If customers were to require business intelligence software like QlikView to be provided via a SaaS deployment, we would need to undertake these investments in order to implement this alternative business model. In addition, we would be obligated to apply new revenue recognition policies. Even if we undertook these investments, we may be unsuccessful in implementing a SaaS business model. These factors could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If we fail to develop our brand cost-effectively, our business may be harmed. We believe that developing and maintaining awareness and integrity of our brand in a cost effective manner are important to achieving widespread acceptance of our existing and future products and are important elements in attracting new customers. We believe that the importance of brand recognition will increase as competition in our market further intensifies. Successful promotion of our brand will depend on the effectiveness of our marketing efforts and on our ability to provide reliable and useful products at competitive prices. Brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenue, and even if they do, the increased revenue may not offset the expenses we incur in building our brand. We also rely on our customer base and community of end-users in a variety of ways, including to give us feedback on our products and to provide user-based support to our other customers. If we fail to promote and maintain our brand successfully or to maintain loyalty among our customers and QlikCommunity, our user community, or if we incur substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain our brand, we may fail to attract new customers or retain our existing customers and our business may be harmed. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our revenues and profits could be adversely affected. We have recently expanded our operations and employee headcount significantly, and we anticipate that further significant expansion will be required. Our future operating results depend to a large extent on our ability to manage this expansion and growth successfully. Sustaining our growth will place significant demands on our management as well as on our administrative, operational and financial resources. To manage our growth, we must continue to improve our operational, financial and management information systems and expand, motivate and manage our workforce. If we are unable to manage our growth successfully without compromising our quality of service and our profit margins, or if new systems that we implement to assist in managing our growth do not produce the expected benefits, our revenues and profits could be harmed. Risks that we face in undertaking future expansion include: • training new personnel to become productive and generate revenue • controlling expenses and investments in anticipation of expanded operations • implementing and enhancing our administrative infrastructure, systems and processes • addressing new markets • expanding operations in the U.S. and new international regions. A failure to manage our growth effectively could harm our ability to market and sell our software platform and maintenance services. If we are unable to recruit or retain skilled personnel, or if we lose the services of any of our key personnel, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to attract, train and retain highly skilled personnel, and we face intense competition for these employees. We may not be able to retain our current key employees or attract, train or retain other highly skilled personnel in the future. If we lose the services of one or all of these individuals, or if we are unable to attract, train and retain the highly skilled personnel we need, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. In addition, we must successfully integrate new employees into our operations and generate sufficient revenues to justify the costs associated with these employees. If we fail to successfully integrate employees or to generate the revenue necessary to offset employee-related expenses, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. The success of our business is also heavily dependent on the leadership of our key management personnel, including Lars Björk, Chief Executive Officer, and other members of our senior management team. The loss of one or more key employees could adversely affect our continued operations. Our future success depends in a large part upon the continued service of key members of our senior management team. In particular, Lars Björk, our Chief Executive Officer, is critical to the overall management of QlikTech, as well as the development of our technology, our culture, and our strategic direction. The loss of any of our management or key personnel could seriously harm our business. 18 Table of Contents Future product development is dependent on adequate research and development resources. In order to remain competitive, we must continue to develop new products, applications and enhancements to our existing software platform. This is particularly true as we further expand our product capabilities. Maintaining adequate research and development resources, such as the appropriate personnel, talent and development technology, to meet the demands of the market is essential. Our research and development organization is located in Lund, Sweden, and we may have difficulty hiring suitably skilled personnel in this region or expanding our research and development organization to facilities located in other geographic locations. In addition, many of our competitors expend a considerably greater amount of resources on their respective research and development programs. Our failure to maintain adequate research and development resources or to compete effectively with the research and development programs of our competitors would present an advantage to such competitors. If we fail to offer high quality customer support, our business would suffer. Once our software platform and solutions are deployed to our customers, our customers rely on our support services to resolve any related issues. High quality customer support is important for the successful marketing and sale of our software platform and services and for the renewal of existing customers. The importance of high quality customer support will increase as we expand our business and pursue new enterprise customers. If we do not help our customers quickly resolve post-deployment issues and provide effective ongoing support, our ability to sell our software platform and professional services to existing customers would suffer and our reputation with existing or potential customers would be harmed. We currently utilize a combination of internal support personnel and third party support organizations, and we cannot provide assurance that actions taken or not taken by our third party support organization will not harm our reputation or business. As we expand our sales, we will be required to engage and train additional support personnel and resources. Further, our support organization will face additional challenges as we enter new international markets, including challenges associated with delivering support, training and documentation in languages required by new customers. If we fail to maintain high quality customer support or to grow our internal and external support organization to match any future sales growth, our business will suffer. If we do not meet our revenue forecasts, we may be unable to reduce our expenses to avoid or minimize harm to our results of operations. Our revenues are difficult to forecast and are likely to fluctuate significantly from period to period. We base our operating expense budgets on expected revenue trends, and many of our expenses, such as office and equipment leases and personnel costs, will be relatively fixed in the short term and will increase over time as we make investments in our business. Our estimates of sales trends may not correlate with actual revenues in a particular quarter or over a longer period of time. Variations in the rate and timing of conversion of our sales prospects into actual licensing revenues could cause us to plan or budget inaccurately and those variations could adversely affect our financial results. In particular, delays, reductions in amount or cancellation of customers’ purchases or an increase in the number of customers exercising our 30-day money back guarantee on our software platform would adversely affect the overall level and timing of our revenues, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. Due to the relatively fixed nature of many of our expenses, we may be unable to adjust spending quickly enough to offset any unexpected revenue shortfall. In the course of our sales to customers, we may encounter difficulty collecting accounts receivable and could be exposed to risks associated with uncollectible accounts receivable. In the event we are unable to collect on our accounts receivable, it could negatively affect our cash flows, operating results and business. Our methodologies and software solutions may infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties or be found to contain unexpected open source software, and this may create liability for us or otherwise harm our business. Third parties may claim that our current or future products infringe their intellectual property rights, and such claims may result in legal claims against our customers and us. These claims may damage our reputation, harm our customer relationships and create liability for us. We expect the number of such claims will increase as the number of products and the level of competition in our industry segments grow, the functionality of products overlap and the volume of issued software patents and patent applications continues to increase. We generally agree in our customer contracts to indemnify customers for expenses or liabilities they incur as a result of third party intellectual property infringement claims associated with our products or services. To the extent that any claim arises as a result of third party technology we have licensed for use in our product, we may be unable to recover from the appropriate third party any expenses or other liabilities that we incur. In addition, software products like ours that contain thousands of lines of software code at times incorporate open source software code. The use of open source software code is typically subject to varying forms of software licenses, called copyleft or open source licenses. These types of licenses may require that any person who creates a software product that redistributes or modifies open source software that was subject to an open source license must also make their own software product subject to the same open source license. This can lead to a requirement that the newly created software product be provided free of charge or be made available or distributed in source code form. Although we do not believe our software includes any open source software that would result in the imposition of any such requirement on portions of our software product, our software could be found to contain this type of open source software. 19 Table of Contents Responding to any infringement claim, regardless of its validity, or discovering open source software in our product could harm our business, operating results and financial condition, by, among other things: • resulting in time-consuming and costly litigation • diverting management’s time and attention from developing our business • requiring us to pay monetary damages or enter into royalty and licensing agreements that we would not normally find acceptable • causing product shipment or deployment delays • requiring us to stop selling certain of our products • requiring us to redesign certain of our products using alternative non-infringing or non-open source technology or practices, which could require significant effort and expense • requiring us to disclose our software source code, the detailed program commands for our software program • requiring us to satisfy indemnification obligations to our customers. Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our software platform, services and brand. As of December 31, 2010, we had three issued U.S. patents and one pending U.S. patent expiring at various times ranging from 2015 to 2029 and 19 issued and six pending foreign patents expiring at various times ranging from 2015 to 2029. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, patent, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual commitments to protect our proprietary information. For example, we license our software pursuant to click-wrap or signed license agreements that impose certain restrictions on a licensee’s ability to utilize the software. We also seek to avoid disclosure of our intellectual property, including by requiring those persons with access to our proprietary information to execute confidentiality agreements with us and by restricting access to our source code. Despite our efforts, these measures can only provide limited protection. Unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer portions of our software platform or may otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property. Any patents owned by us may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. Any of our pending or future patent applications, whether or not being currently challenged, may not be issued with the scope of the claims we seek, if at all. Legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in other countries are uncertain and may afford little or no effective protection for our services, software, methodology and other proprietary rights. Consequently, we may be unable to prevent our intellectual property rights from being exploited abroad, which could require costly efforts to protect them. Policing the unauthorized use of our proprietary rights is expensive, difficult and, in some cases, impossible. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources, either of which could harm our business. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. If we cannot protect our proprietary technology against unauthorized copying or use, we may not remain competitive. Furthermore, many of our current and potential competitors have the ability to dedicate substantially greater resources to developing and protecting their technology or intellectual property rights than we do. In addition, our attempts to protect our proprietary technology and intellectual property rights may be further limited as our employees may be recruited by our current or future competitors and may take with them significant knowledge of our proprietary information. Consequently, others may develop services and methodologies that are similar or superior to our services and methodologies or may design around our intellectual property. Computer “hackers” may damage our systems, services and products, and breaches of data protection could impact our business. Computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause interruptions or shutdowns of our internal systems and services. If successful, any of these events could damage our computer systems or those of our customers and could disrupt or prevent us from providing timely maintenance and support for our software platform. Computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. The costs to us to eliminate or alleviate security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities could be significant, and the efforts to address these problems could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers and may impede our sales and other critical functions. In the course of our regular business operations and providing maintenance and support services to our customers, we process and transmit proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data, including personal information of employees, customers and others. Breaches in security could expose us, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, which could result in potential regulatory actions, litigation and potential liability for us, as well as the loss of existing or potential customers and damage to our brand and reputation. Our business could be harmed as a result of the risks associated with our acquisitions. As part of our business strategy, we may from time to time seek to acquire businesses that provide us with additional intellectual property, customer relationships and geographic coverage. We can provide no assurances that we will be able to find and identify desirable acquisition targets or that we will be successful in entering into a definitive agreement with any one target. In addition, even if we reach a definitive agreement with a target, there is no assurance that we will complete any future acquisition. 20 Table of Contents Any acquisitions we undertake will likely be accompanied by business risks which may include, among other things: • the effect of the acquisition on our financial and strategic position and reputation • the failure of an acquisition to result in expected benefits, which may include benefits relating to enhanced revenues, technology, human resources, costs savings, operating efficiencies, goodwill and other synergies • the difficulty, cost and management effort required to integrate the acquired businesses, including costs and delays in implementing common systems and procedures and costs and delays caused by communication difficulties • the assumption of certain known or unknown liabilities of the acquired business, including litigation-related liabilities • the reduction of our cash available for operations and other uses, the increase in amortization expense related to identifiable assets acquired, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt • a lack of experience in new markets, new business culture, products or technologies or an initial dependence on unfamiliar distribution partners • the possibility that we will pay more than the value we derive from the acquisition • the impairment of relationships with customers, partners or suppliers of the acquired business or our customers • the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company. These factors could harm our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition to the risks commonly encountered in the acquisition of a business as described above, we may also experience risks relating to the challenges and costs of closing a transaction. The risks described above may be exacerbated as a result of managing multiple acquisitions at once. Business disruptions could affect our operating results. A significant portion of our research and development activities and certain other critical business operations are concentrated at a single facility in Sweden. We are also a highly automated business and a disruption or failure of our systems could cause delays in completing sales and providing services. A major natural disaster, fire, act of terrorism or other catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business operations or information technology systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our future operating results could be harmed. Future litigation could harm our results of operation and financial condition. In addition to intellectual property litigation, from time to time, we may be subject to other litigation. We record a related liability when we can make a reasonable estimate of the liability relating to pending litigation and determine that it is probable. As additional information becomes available, we assess the potential liability and revise estimates as appropriate. However, because of uncertainties relating to litigation, the amount of our estimates could be wrong. In addition to the related cost and use of cash, pending or future litigation could cause the diversion of management’s attention and resources. We are incurring significant increased costs and demands upon management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies, which could harm our operating results. As a public company, we are incurring significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the Nasdaq Global Market (“Nasdaq”) impose various requirements on public companies, including requirements with respect to corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, we expect these rules and regulations to substantially increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. We also expect these rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantial costs to maintain the same or similar coverage. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. We may need additional capital in the future and it may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. We have historically relied on outside financing and cash flow from operations to fund our operations, capital expenditures and expansion. However, we may require additional capital in the future to fund our operations and acquisitions, finance investments in equipment or personnel or respond to competitive pressures. We cannot provide assurance that additional financing will be available on terms acceptable to us. In addition, the terms of available financing may place limits on our financial and operational flexibility. If we are unable to obtain sufficient capital in the future, we may not be able to continue to meet customer demand for service quality, availability and competitive pricing. We also may be forced to reduce our operations or may not be able to expand or acquire complementary businesses, develop new services or otherwise respond to changing business conditions or competitive pressures. 21 Table of Contents Prolonged economic uncertainties or downturns could materially harm our business. Current or future economic downturns could harm our business and results of operations. Negative trends in the general economy both in the U.S. and abroad, including trends resulting from actual or threatened military action by the U.S., terrorist attacks on the U.S., Europe or elsewhere, and financial and credit market fluctuations, could cause a decrease in corporate spending on business intelligence software in general and negatively affect the rate of growth of our business. General worldwide economic conditions have experienced a significant downturn. These conditions make it extremely difficult for our customers and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and they could cause our customers to slow spending on our products and services, which would delay and lengthen sales cycles. Furthermore, during challenging economic times our customers may face issues in gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which could result in an impairment of their ability to make timely payments to us. If that were to occur, we may be required to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts and our results would be harmed. We maintain operating bank accounts at financial institutions in the U.S., Sweden and other regions. In particular, a significant amount of our cash balances in the U.S. and Sweden are in excess of the insurance limits of the U.S. government’s Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or FDIC and Swedish government’s Swedish Deposit Insurance Scheme, or Insättningsgarantin. The FDIC insures deposits in most banks and savings associations located in the U.S. and protects depositors against the loss of their deposits if an FDIC-insured bank or savings association fails, subject to specified monetary ceilings. Similarly, the Swedish Deposit Insurance Scheme is a state-provided guarantee of deposits in accounts at Swedish banks, subject to specified monetary ceilings. We could incur substantial losses if the underlying financial institutions in these or other regions fail or are otherwise unable to return our deposits. We have a significant number of customers in the consumer products and services, manufacturing and financial services industries. A substantial downturn in these industries may cause firms to react to worsening conditions by reducing their capital expenditures in general or by specifically reducing their spending on information technology. Customers in these industries may delay or cancel information technology projects or seek to lower their costs by renegotiating vendor contracts. Also, customers with excess information technology resources may choose to develop in-house software solutions rather than obtain those solutions from us. Moreover, competitors may respond to market conditions by lowering prices and attempting to lure away our customers. In addition, the increased pace of consolidation in certain industries may result in reduced overall spending on our products. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or recovery, generally or in the consumer products and services, manufacturing and financial services industries. If the economic conditions of the general economy or markets in which we operate worsen from present levels, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. If we fail to establish and maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting, our operating results and our ability to operate our business could be harmed. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we establish and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. Under the SEC’s current rules, beginning with the year ending December 31, 2011, we will be required to perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our independent registered public accounting firm will also be required to report on our internal control over financial reporting. Our testing and our independent registered public accounting firm’s testing may reveal deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses and render our internal control over financial reporting ineffective. Due to the extent of our international operations, our financial reporting requires substantial international activities, resources and reporting consolidation. We expect to incur substantial accounting and auditing expense and to expend significant management time in complying with the requirements of Section 404. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to investigations or sanctions by the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc., known as FINRA, or other regulatory authorities. In addition, we could be required to expend significant management time and financial resources to correct any material weaknesses that may be identified or to respond to any regulatory investigations or proceedings. We have previously identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, and if we are unable to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, this could have a material adverse effect on our business and common stock price. We produce our consolidated financial statements in accordance with the requirements of United States generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”), but our internal accounting controls may not currently meet all standards applicable to companies with publicly traded securities. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports to help mitigate the risk of fraud and to operate successfully as a publicly traded company. 22 Table of Contents In connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2009, we identified a material weakness in the design and operation of our internal controls over financial reporting relating to the accounting for expenses in one of our European operating subsidiaries. A material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of a company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis by the company’s internal controls. Specifically, we determined that we had insufficient reconciliation and oversight of our accounting for accrued and prepaid expenses in one of our European operating subsidiaries during our financial statement close process which would have resulted in the overstatement of our assets and liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet and an overstatement of operating expenses and understatement of net income. During 2010, we have implemented procedures and controls designed to improve communication and overview of financial reporting by our geographic territories, including the affected operating subsidiary noted above, during our reporting consolidation processes. These procedures and controls include a monthly review of each of our territory’s financial results by financial controllers outside of the respective territory; increased communications, including monthly videoconferences among all regional financial controllers to address any material topics; and a quarterly requirement for all reporting territories to provide detailed commentary and analysis of material balance sheet positions and operating results for internal review purposes. We believe we have remediated this material weakness. In connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2008, we identified a material weakness in our formal financial statement closing process. We remediated this material weakness during 2009 by implementing additional controls, including increasing our corporate accounting staff, implementing additional system controls and establishing a formalized closing calendar. Although we believe we have addressed the internal control deficiencies that led to the material weaknesses, the measures we have taken may not be effective given our global operations and distribution capabilities, and we may not be able to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future. If we have these or other material weaknesses in the future, it could affect the financial results that we report or create a perception that those financial results do not fairly state our financial condition or results of operations. Either of those events could have an adverse effect on the value of our common stock. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in or interpretations of accounting standards. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP. These principles are subject to interpretation by the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting standards. It is possible that future requirements, including the recently proposed implementation of International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”), could change our current application of U.S. GAAP, resulting in a material adverse impact on our financial position or results of operations. Our accounting policies that recently have been or may be affected by changes in the accounting rules are as follows: • software revenue recognition • accounting for income taxes • accounting for leases • accounting for business combinations and related goodwill • accounting for stock issued to employees • assessing fair value of financial and non-financial assets • application, if any, of IFRS. We continuously review our compliance with all new and existing revenue recognition accounting pronouncements. Depending upon the outcome of these ongoing reviews and the potential issuance of further accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations, we may be required to modify our reported results, revenue recognition policies or business practices which could harm our results of operations. We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. We are subject to taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. All of these jurisdictions have in the past and may in the future make changes to their corporate income tax rates and other income tax laws which could increase our future income tax provision. Our future income tax obligations could be affected by earnings that are lower than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have lower statutory rates and by earnings that are higher than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have higher statutory rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in the amount of unrecognized tax benefits or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof. Our determination of our tax liability is subject to review by applicable U.S. federal, state and local and foreign tax authorities. Any adverse outcome of such a review could harm our operating results and financial condition. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment and, in the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Moreover, as a multinational business, we have subsidiaries that engage in many intercompany transactions in a variety of tax jurisdictions where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are also subject to non-income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities with respect to these non-income taxes and may have exposure to additional non-income tax liabilities which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our future effective tax rates could be favorably or unfavorably affected by changes in tax rates, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. Such changes could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. 23 Table of Contents As a result of these and other factors, the ultimate amount of tax obligations owed may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and any such difference may harm our financial results in future periods in which we change our estimates of our tax obligations or in which the ultimate tax outcome is determined. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports or publish unfavorable research or reports about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that securities or industry analysts may publish about us, our business, our market or our competitors. If any of the analysts who may cover us adversely change their recommendation regarding our stock, or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors, our stock price would likely decline. If any analyst who may cover us were to cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, interest in our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. The price of our common stock may be volatile and fluctuate substantially. The market price of our common stock could be highly volatile and may fluctuate substantially due to the following factors (in addition to the other risk factors described in this section): • quarterly variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors • announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, new products, significant contracts or commercial relationships • our ability to respond to changing industry standards, technological developments or customer requirements on a timely basis • commencement of, or our involvement in, litigation • any major change in our board of directors or management • recommendations by securities analysts or changes in earnings estimates • announcements about our earnings that are not in line with analyst expectations • announcements by our competitors of their earnings that are not in line with analyst expectations • the volume of shares of our common stock available for public sale • sales of stock by us or by our stockholders • short sales, hedging and other derivative transactions involving shares of our common stock • adoption of new accounting standards • general economic conditions in the U.S. and abroad and slow or negative growth of related markets • general political conditions in the U.S. and abroad, including terrorist attacks, war or threat of terrorist attacks or war. In addition, the stock market in general, Nasdaq and the market for technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the particular companies affected. These broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price irrespective of our operating performance. As a result of these factors, an investor might be unable to resell their shares at or above the price paid. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against the affected company. This type of litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. 24 Table of Contents Future sales of our common stock in the public market, including sales by our stockholders with significant holdings, may depress our stock price. The market price of our common stock could drop due to sales of a large number of shares or the perception that such sales could occur, including sales or perceived sales by our directors, officers or large stockholders. These sales could also make it more difficult or impossible for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate to raise funds through future offerings of common stock. Our management will have broad discretion over the use of our cash reserves, if any, and might not apply this cash in ways that increase the value of an investment. Our management will have broad discretion to use our cash reserves, if any, and you will be relying on the judgment of our management regarding the application of this cash. They might not apply our cash in ways that increase the value of an investment. We expect to use our cash reserves for general corporate purposes, including working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and further development of our services and solutions. We have not allocated this cash for any specific purposes. Our management might not be able to yield any return on the investment and use of this cash. We currently do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock, and consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a return on investment is if the price of our common stock appreciates and you sell your shares at a price above your cost. We currently do not intend to declare or pay dividends on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future. See “Dividend Policy” for more information. Consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment in our company will be if the market price of our common stock appreciates and you sell your shares at a price above your cost. There is no guarantee that the price of our common stock will ever exceed the price that you pay. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and in Delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control of our company. We are a Delaware corporation, and the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us that stockholders may consider favorable. Our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws: • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to thwart a takeover attempt • do not provide for cumulative voting in the election of directors which would allow holders of less than a majority of the stock to elect some directors • establish a classified board of directors, as a result of which the successors to the directors whose terms have expired will be elected to serve from the time of election and qualification until the third annual meeting following their election • require that directors only be removed from office for cause • provide that vacancies on the board of directors, including newly-created directorships, may be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office • limit who may call special meetings of stockholders • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders • establish advance notice requirements for nominating candidates for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 25 Table of Contents 