Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our common stock involves risk. Before making an investment in our common stock, you should carefully consider the following risks, as well as the other information contained in this report, including our consolidated financial statements and Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The risks described below are those which we believe are the material risks we face. Any of the risks described below could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or not believed by us to be material could also impact us. Risks Related to the Extensive Regulation of Our Business If our institutions fail to comply with extensive regulatory requirements, we could face monetary liabilities or penalties, restrictions on our operations or growth or loss of access to federal loans and grants for our students on which we are substantially dependent. In the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, Ashford University derived 85.5%, 86.8% and 83.9%, respectively, and the University of the Rockies derived 84.6%, 80.8% and 61.9%, respectively, of their respective revenues (in each case calculated on a cash basis in accordance with applicable U.S. Department of Education regulations) from federal student financial aid programs, referred to in this report as Title IV programs, administered by the U.S. Department of Education. To participate in Title IV programs, a school must be legally authorized to operate in the state in which it is physically located, accredited by an accrediting agency recognized by the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Education as a reliable indicator of educational quality and certified as an eligible institution by the U.S. Department of Education. As a result, we are subject to extensive regulation by state education agencies, our accrediting agency and the U.S. Department of Education. These regulatory requirements cover many aspects of our operations, including our educational programs, facilities, instructional and administrative staff, administrative procedures, marketing, recruiting, financial operations and financial condition. These regulatory requirements can also affect our ability to acquire or open additional schools, to add new or expand existing educational programs, to change our corporate structure or ownership and to make other substantive changes. The state education agencies, our accrediting agency and the U.S. Department of Education periodically revise their requirements and modify their interpretations of existing requirements. If one of our institutions fails to comply with any of these regulatory requirements, the U.S. Department of Education can impose sanctions on such institution including: •transferring the institution to the heightened cash monitoring level two method of payment or to the reimbursement method of payment, which would adversely affect the timing of the institution's receipt of Title IV funds; •requiring the institution to post a letter of credit in favor of the U.S. Department of Education as a condition for continued Title IV certification; •imposing monetary liability against the institution in an amount equal to any funds determined to have been improperly disbursed; •initiating proceedings to impose a fine or to limit, suspend or terminate the institution's participation in Title IV programs; •taking emergency action to suspend the institution's participation in Title IV programs without prior notice or a prior opportunity for a hearing; •failing to grant the institution's application for renewal of its certification to participate in Title IV programs; or 41 Table of Contents •referring a matter for possible civil or criminal investigation. In addition, the agencies that guarantee Title IV private lender loans for our students could initiate proceedings to limit, suspend or terminate our ability to obtain guarantees of our students' loans through that agency. If sanctions were imposed resulting in a substantial curtailment or termination of our participation in Title IV programs, our enrollments, revenues and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, if administrative proceedings were initiated alleging regulatory violations, or seeking to impose any such sanctions, or if a third party were to initiate judicial proceedings alleging such violations, the mere existence of such proceedings could damage our reputation. We cannot predict with certainty how all of these regulatory requirements will be applied or whether we will be able to comply with all of the requirements. We have described some of the most significant regulatory risks that apply to us in the following paragraphs. Because we operate in a highly regulated industry, we are also subject to compliance reviews and claims of noncompliance and lawsuits by government agencies, regulatory agencies and third parties, including claims brought by third parties on behalf of the federal government under the federal False Claims Act. If the results of these reviews or proceedings are unfavorable to us or if we are unable to defend successfully against such lawsuits or claims, we may be required to pay money damages or be subject to fines, limitations, loss of Title IV funding, injunctions or other penalties. Even if we adequately address issues raised by an agency review or successfully defend a lawsuit or claim, we may have to divert significant financial and management resources from our ongoing business operations to address issues raised by those reviews or to defend against those lawsuits or claims. Claims and lawsuits brought against us may damage our reputation or adversely affect our stock price, even if such claims and lawsuits are eventually determined to be without merit. The U.S. Department of Education's Office of Inspector General has conducted a compliance audit of Ashford University and has preliminarily advised us of certain areas of potential noncompliance. The U.S. Department of Education's Office of Inspector General, or the OIG, is responsible for promoting the effectiveness and integrity of the U.S. Department of Education's programs and operations. With respect to educational institutions that participate in Title IV programs, the OIG conducts its work primarily through an audit services division and an investigation services division. The audit services division typically conducts general audits of schools to assess their administration of federal funds in accordance with applicable rules and regulations. The investigation services division typically conducts focused investigations of particular allegations of fraud, abuse or other wrongdoing against schools by third parties, such as a lawsuit filed under seal pursuant to the federal False Claims Act. The OIG's audit services division commenced a compliance audit of Ashford University in May 2008, covering the period March 10, 2005 through June 30, 2009. The scope of the audit covered Ashford University's administration of Title IV program funds, including compliance with regulations governing institutional and student eligibility, awards and disbursements of Title IV program funds, verification of awards, returns of unearned funds and compensation of financial aid and recruiting personnel. On September 2, 2009, the OIG conducted a telephonic exit interview for the audit, in which it notified Ashford University of its completion of field work and that it would be issuing an initial draft report of its findings, to which Ashford University would have an opportunity to respond prior to OIG's issuance of a final report, and informed us that it tentatively was considering certain findings of noncompliance with provisions of the Higher Education Act and regulations governing Ashford University's administration of Title IV programs. Specifically, the OIG tentatively identified the following areas of potential noncompliance for its initial draft report: •compensation policies and practices with respect to enrollment advisors; •calculation of returns of Title IV program funds; 42 Table of Contents •timeliness of returns of Title IV program funds; •student authorizations to retain credit balances; •disbursements of unearned Title IV program funds; and •maintenance of supporting documentation for students' leaves of absence. The OIG's tentative findings as stated in the exit interview are preliminary and remain under review by the staff of the OIG. While we believe Ashford University operates in substantial compliance with the regulations of the U.S. Department of Education which are applicable to the areas under review, due to the tentative and preliminary nature of the OIG's assertions, we cannot predict the extent of the OIG's ultimate findings. However, we expect that the OIG's draft report will assert findings of noncompliance, and if such findings are included in the OIG's final report, such final report could result in recommendations that the U.S. Department of Education's Office of Federal Student Aid impose fines, liabilities or an adverse action on Ashford University and require Ashford University to take corrective action. Once the OIG's draft report is received, Ashford University will have at least 30 days to submit responses to the OIG's draft findings. After the OIG has considered our responses, the OIG will issue a final audit report, which will contain the OIG's final findings and any recommendations to the Office of Federal Student Aid based on those findings. If the OIG identifies instances of noncompliance in its final audit report, the Office of Federal Student Aid would determine what action to take, if any, and we would anticipate having an opportunity to participate in a dialog with the Office of Federal Student Aid concerning the OIG report. Such action by the Office of Federal Student Aid could include requiring Ashford University to modify its Title IV administration procedures or its practices with respect to the compensation of its enrollment advisors, assessing a monetary liability for the return of Title IV program funds or the commencement of an administrative action to impose potentially significant fines or to limit, suspend or terminate Ashford University's Title IV participation. If the Office of Federal Student Aid assesses any monetary liabilities or commences an administrative action, Ashford University would pursue fully its administrative remedies. Because of the ongoing nature of the OIG audit, we cannot predict the ultimate extent of the draft or final audit findings or the potential liability or remedial actions that might result. Such findings and related remedial action may have a material adverse effect on our reputation in the industry, our cash flows and results of operations, our ability to recruit students and our business. Our schools may be sanctioned or subject to lawsuits if they pay impermissible commissions, bonuses or other incentive payments to individuals involved in certain recruiting, admissions or financial aid awarding activities. An institution that participates in Title IV programs may not provide any commission, bonus or other incentive payment based directly or indirectly on success in securing enrollments or financial aid to any person or entity engaged in any student recruitment, admissions or financial aid awarding activity. Although the U.S. Department of Education's regulations set forth 12 "safe harbors" which describe compensation arrangements that do not violate the incentive compensation rule, including the payment and adjustment of salaries and bonuses under certain conditions, the law and regulations do not establish clear criteria for compliance in all circumstances, and the U.S. Department of Education no longer reviews and approves compensation plans prior to their implementation. If one of our institutions were to violate the incentive compensation rule, it would be subject to monetary liabilities or to administrative action to impose a fine or to limit, suspend or terminate its eligibility to participate in Title IV programs, which would have a material adverse effect on our enrollment, revenues and results of operations. 43 Table of Contents Additionally, several of our competitors have been faced with lawsuits brought by current or former employees pursuant to the federal False Claims Act, alleging violations of the incentive compensation rule. Defending a False Claims Act lawsuit could be costly and could divert management's time and attention from our business, regardless of whether the claim has merit. The adverse resolution of such a lawsuit could lead to monetary liability, including treble damages and attorneys' fees, and other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We must periodically seek recertification to participate in Title IV programs and may, in certain circumstances, be subject to review by the U.S. Department of Education prior to seeking recertification. An institution that is certified to participate in Title IV programs must periodically seek recertification from the U.S. Department of Education to continue participating in such programs, including when it undergoes a change of control as defined by the U.S. Department of Education. Our current provisional certification for Ashford University is scheduled to expire on June 30, 2011. Our current provisional certification for the University of the Rockies is scheduled to expire on September 30, 2010. The U.S. Department of Education may also review our schools' continued certification to participate in Title IV programs if we undergo a change of control. In addition, the U.S. Department of Education may take emergency action to suspend an institution's certification without advance notice if it determines the institution is violating Title IV requirements and determines that immediate action is necessary to prevent misuse of Title IV funds. If the U.S. Department of Education did not renew or if it withdrew our schools' certifications to participate in Title IV programs, our students would no longer be able to receive Title IV funds, which would have a material adverse effect on our enrollment, revenues and results of operations. Congress may change the eligibility standards or reduce funding for Title IV programs. The Higher Education Act, which is the federal law that governs Title IV programs, must be periodically reauthorized by Congress, typically every five to six years. The Higher Education Act was most recently reauthorized in August 2008, continuing Title IV programs through at least September 30, 2014. In addition, Congress must determine funding levels for Title IV programs on an annual basis and can change the laws governing Title IV programs at any time. Political and budgetary concerns significantly affect Title IV programs. Because a significant percentage of our revenue is derived from Title IV programs, any action by Congress that significantly reduces Title IV program funding, or reduces our ability or the ability of our students to participate in Title IV programs, would have a material adverse effect on our enrollment, revenues and results of operations. Congressional action could also require us to modify our practices in ways that could increase our administrative and regulatory costs. The recently commenced negotiated rulemaking by the U.S. Department of Education could result in regulatory changes that materially and adversely affect our business. In November 2009, the U.S. Department of Education convened two new negotiated rulemaking committees related to Title IV program integrity issues and foreign school issues. The proposed program integrity rulemaking addresses 14 topics, including, but not limited to: •standards regarding the payment of incentive compensation to any person or entity involved in student recruiting or admissions activities or in making decisions regarding the awarding of Title IV students financial aid; •establishing a definition of "gainful employment" for purposes of determining whether certain educational programs, including all programs provided by a for-profit postsecondary educational institution like our two institutions, comply with the Title IV program requirement of preparing 44 Table of Contents students for gainful employment in a recognized occupation and thereby qualify as eligible programs for which eligible students may receive Title IV student financial aid; •revising the definition of what constitutes a substantial misrepresentation made by an institution regarding the nature of its educational program, its financial charges or the employability of its graduates; •standards regarding the sufficiency of a state's authorization of an institution for the purpose of establishing an institution's eligibility to participate in the Title IV programs; and •the definition of a credit hour for purposes of determining program eligibility for Title IV student financial aid, particularly in the context of distance learning. The program integrity committee completed its meetings in February 2010 without reaching consensus on proposed regulations for all 14 issues. As a result, the U.S. Department of Education is not bound by any of the proposed regulations presented to the committee and is expected to publish proposed regulations later this year which may or may not differ from those presented to the committee. The proposed regulations will be subject to public comment and further modification by the U.S. Department of Education After the public comment period expires, the U.S. Department of Education must publish final regulations in the Federal Register on or before November 1, 2010, for the regulations to be effective July 1, 2011. The U.S. Department of Education has stated its intent to publish final regulations on or before November 1, 2010. We cannot predict the outcome of this rulemaking process at this time. These rules could affect the manner in which we conduct our business by, for example, requiring us to change the manner in which we compensate our enrollment advisors or change the structure of our online programs. The rules also could affect institutional eligibility and educational program eligibility requirements under Title IV regulations and require us to take additional steps to maintain our compliance with those requirements by, for example, obtaining additional approvals in the states in which we are physically located or changing the tuition or other aspects of our educational programs. Compliance with these rules, which if adopted could be effective as early as July 1, 2011, could have a material adverse effect on our enrollment, revenues and results of operations. Our failure to maintain institutional accreditation would result in a loss of eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. An institution must be accredited by an accrediting agency recognized by the U.S. Department of Education in order to participate in Title IV programs. Each of our schools is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission of the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools, which is recognized by the U.S. Department of Education as a reliable authority regarding the quality of education and training provided by the institutions it accredits. Ashford University was reaccredited by the Higher Learning Commission in 2006 for a term of ten years, and the University of the Rockies was reaccredited by the Higher Learning Commission in 2008 for a term of seven years. The Higher Learning Commission scheduled a visit for Ashford University for April 2010 to focus on (i) institutional finances, (ii) effectiveness and outcomes of current experiential learning formats and transfer credit and (iii) the impact on the Clinton campus of campus-based programs offered online. Following a separate visit to Ashford University in November 2009 following our initial public offering, the staff of the Higher Learning Commission has advised us that the upcoming visit in April 2010 will focus on effectiveness and outcomes of current experiential learning formats and online student academic load. The Higher Learning Commission has scheduled Ashford University for a comprehensive evaluation during the 2016-2017 academic year in connection with the next regularly scheduled accreditation renewal process. The Higher Learning Commission has scheduled the University of the 45 Table of Contents Rockies for a comprehensive evaluation during the 2015-2016 academic year in connection with the next regularly scheduled accreditation renewal process. Based on the Higher Learning Commission's policy that an institution have a comprehensive evaluation visit no more than five years after the six-month follow-up visit following a change of control, we understand that the comprehensive evaluation visits for both institutions will be rescheduled. In addition, in connection with (i) the Higher Learning Commission's determination that our initial public offering constituted a change of control under its standards and (ii) the approval of the change requests submitted by Ashford University and the University of the Rockies to proceed with the initial public offering, the Higher Learning Commission conducted an on-site focused visit to each of Ashford University and the University of the Rockies in November 2009 to verify that the respective institutions continue to meet the Higher Learning Commission's requirements. The Higher Learning Commission had postponed consideration of a request by the University of the Rockies for approval of three new graduate programs until completion of the on-site visit and formal acceptance of the visiting team's recommendations by the Higher Learning Commission. The Commission visiting team to each institution issued a report confirming that the institution continued to meet the Commission's requirements following our initial public offering. The Commission advised the University of the Rockies that it could submit its request to offer three new graduate programs. The University has submitted the request and is waiting for confirmation of visit dates at this time. To remain accredited, our institutions must continuously meet accreditation standards relating to, among other things, performance, governance, institutional integrity, educational quality, faculty, administrative capability, resources and financial stability. If either of our institutions fails to satisfy any of the Higher Learning Commission's standards, it could lose its accreditation. Loss of accreditation would denigrate the value of our institutions' educational programs and would cause them to lose their eligibility to participate in Title IV programs, which would have a material adverse effect on our enrollment, revenues and results of operations. If one of our schools does not maintain necessary state authorization in the states in which it is physically located, it may not operate or participate in Title IV programs. To participate in Title IV programs, an institution must be authorized by the relevant education agency of the state in which it is physically located. •Ashford University is located in the State of Iowa and is exempt from having to register as a postsecondary school in the State of Iowa. Such exemption may be lost or withdrawn if Ashford University fails to comply with requirements under Iowa law for continued exemption. •The University of the Rockies is located in the State of Colorado and is authorized by the Colorado Commission on Higher Education. Such authorization may be lost or withdrawn if the University of the Rockies fails to comply with requirements under Colorado statutes and rules for continued authorization. Loss of state authorization by one of our institutions in the state in which it is physically located would terminate our ability to provide educational services through such institution, as well as make such institution ineligible to participate in Title IV programs, which would have a material adverse effect on our enrollments, revenues and results of operations. The failure of our schools to demonstrate financial responsibility may result in a loss of eligibility to participate in Title IV programs or require the posting of a letter of credit in order to maintain eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. To participate in Title IV programs, an eligible institution must, among other things, satisfy specific measures of financial responsibility prescribed by the U.S. Department of Education or post a letter of 46 Table of Contents credit in favor of the U.S. Department of Education and possibly accept other conditions to the institution's participation in Title IV programs. The measures of financial responsibility include a minimum composite score of 1.5. The composite score is derived from the institution's or its parent's audited, fiscal-year-end financial statements and is calculated annually by the U.S. Department of Education for each participating institution. If such composite score does not meet or exceed 1.5, the U.S. Department of Education may require the institution to post a letter of credit in favor of the U.S. Department of Education and possibly accept other conditions on its participation in Title IV programs. Based on the financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, Ashford University and the University of the Rockies did not satisfy the composite score requirement of the financial responsibility test. As a result, (i) Ashford University posted a letter of credit in favor of the U.S. Department of Education in the amount of $12.1 million, which was scheduled to remain in effect through September 30, 2009, and (ii) the University of the Rockies posted a letter of credit in favor of the U.S. Department of Education in the amount of $0.7 million, which was scheduled to remain in effect through June 30, 2009. In July 2009, the U.S. Department of Education notified us that the University of the Rockies received a composite score of 1.7 for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, and that the University of the Rockies was released from the requirement to post a letter of credit. In August 2009, the U.S. Department of Education notified us that Ashford University received a composite score of 1.6 for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, and that Ashford University was released from the requirement to post a letter of credit based on the financial responsibility test. The failure of our schools to demonstrate administrative capability may result in a loss of eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. U.S. Department of Education regulations specify extensive criteria by which an institution must establish that it has the requisite administrative capability to participate in Title IV programs. To meet the administrative capability standards, an institution must, among other things: •comply with all applicable Title IV program requirements; •have an adequate number of qualified personnel to administer Title IV programs; •have acceptable standards for measuring the satisfactory academic progress of its students; •have various procedures in place for awarding, disbursing and safeguarding Title IV funds and for maintaining required records; •administer Title IV programs with adequate checks and balances in its system of internal control over financial reporting; •not be, and not have any principal or affiliate who is, debarred or suspended from federal contracting or engaging in activity that is cause for debarment or suspension; •provide financial aid counseling to its students; •refer to the OIG any credible information indicating that any student, parent, employee, third-party servicer or other agent of the institution has engaged in any fraud or other illegal conduct involving Title IV programs; •submit all required reports and financial statements in a timely manner; and •not otherwise appear to lack administrative capability. 47 Table of Contents If an institution fails to satisfy any of these criteria or comply with any other U.S. Department of Education regulations, the U.S. Department of Education may impose sanctions including: •transferring the institution to the heightened cash monitoring level two method of payment or to the reimbursement method of payment, which would adversely affect the timing of the institution's receipt of Title IV funds; •requiring the institution to post a letter of credit in favor of the U.S. Department of Education as a condition for continued Title IV certification; •imposing a monetary liability against the institution in an amount equal to any funds determined to have been improperly disbursed; •initiating proceedings to impose a fine or to limit, suspend or terminate the institution's participation in Title IV programs; •taking emergency action to suspend the institution's participation in Title IV programs without prior notice or a prior opportunity for a hearing; •failing to approve the institution's application for renewal of its certification to participate in Title IV programs; or •referring a matter for possible civil or criminal investigation. If we are found not to have satisfied the U.S. Department of Education's administrative capability requirements, we could be limited in our access to, or lose, Title IV program funding, which would have a material adverse effect on our enrollment, revenues and results of operations. We are subject to sanctions if we fail to correctly calculate and return Title IV program funds in a timely manner for students who withdraw before completing their educational program. An institution participating in Title IV programs must correctly calculate the amount of unearned Title IV program funds that have been disbursed to students who withdraw from their educational programs before completion and must return those unearned funds in a timely manner, generally within 45 days of the date the school determines that the student has withdrawn. Under U.S. Department of Education regulations, failure to make timely returns of Title IV program funds for 5% or more of students sampled on the institution's annual compliance audit in either of its two most recently completed fiscal years can result in an institution's having to post a letter of credit in an amount equal to 25% of its prior year returns of Title IV program funds. If unearned funds are not properly calculated and returned in a timely manner, an institution is also subject to monetary liabilities or an action to impose a fine or to limit, suspend or terminate its participation in Title IV programs. For the year ended December 31, 2007, Ashford University exceeded the 5% threshold for late refunds sampled, due to human error. As a result, we are subject to the requirement to post a letter of credit in favor of the U.S. Department of Education equal to 25% of the total refunds in 2007. In 2008, Ashford University notified the U.S. Department of Education of its intention to post this letter of credit, but was advised by the U.S. Department of Education that such posting was unnecessary because we had already posted a letter of credit due to Ashford University's failure to meet the composite score standard for the year ended December 31, 2007, which letter of credit was in excess of the amount required for late refunds. The U.S. Department of Education subsequently released Ashford University from the requirement to post a letter of credit based on its composite score, at which time Ashford University became obligated to post a smaller letter of credit in the amount of $5.0 million, or 25% of Ashford University's required Title IV returns for the year ended December 31, 2008, which the Company posted. Although we have taken steps to reduce late refunds, we cannot ensure that such steps will be sufficient to address this issue. For the year ended December 31, 2008, Ashford University did not exceed the 5% threshold for late refunds sampled. 48 Table of Contents We may lose our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs if the percentage of our revenue derived from those programs is too high. Pursuant to a provision of the Higher Education Act, as reauthorized in August 2008, a for-profit institution loses its eligibility to participate in Title IV programs if the institution derives more than 90% of its revenues (calculated on a cash basis in accordance with applicable U.S. Department of Education regulations) from Title IV funds for two consecutive fiscal years, commencing with the institution's first fiscal year that ends after the new law's effective date of August 14, 2008. This rule is commonly referred to as the "90/10 rule." Any institution that violates the 90/10 rule becomes ineligible to participate in Title IV programs for at least two fiscal years. In addition, an institution whose rate exceeds 90% for any single year will be placed on provisional certification and may be subject to other enforcement measures. In the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, Ashford University derived 85.5% and 86.8%, respectively, and the University of the Rockies derived 84.6% and 80.8%, respectively, of their respective revenues (calculated on a cash basis in accordance with applicable U.S. Department of Education regulations) from Title IV funds. In connection with the change by the University of the Rockies to a December 31 fiscal year end date, the U.S. Department of Education required the University of the Rockies to calculate its compliance with the 90/10 rule for the fiscal year ending July 31, 2008 and for the five-month period ending December 31, 2008, and those percentages were 74.3% and 80.8%, respectively. Ineligibility to participate in Title IV programs would have a material adverse effect on our enrollments, revenues and results of operations. Recent changes in federal law which increased Title IV grant and loan limits, and any additional increases in the future, may result in an increase in the revenues we receive from Title IV programs, which could make it more difficult for us to satisfy the 90/10 rule. We may lose our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs if our student loan default rates are too high. For each federal fiscal year, the U.S. Department of Education calculates a rate of student defaults for each educational institution which is known as a "cohort default rate." An institution may lose its eligibility to participate in some or all Title IV programs if, for each of the three most recent federal fiscal years, 25% or more of its students who became subject to a repayment obligation in that federal fiscal year defaulted on such obligation by the end of the following federal fiscal year. In addition, an institution may lose its eligibility to participate in some or all Title IV programs if its cohort default rate exceeds 40% in the most recent federal fiscal year for which default rates have been calculated by the U.S. Department of Education. Ashford University's cohort default rates for the 2007, 2006 and 2005 federal fiscal years, the three most recent years for which information is available, were 13.3%, 4.1% and 4.1%, respectively. The cohort default rates for the University of the Rockies for the 2007, 2006 and 2005 federal fiscal years, the three most recent years for which information is available, were 0%, 0% and 0%, respectively. The draft cohort default rates for the 2008 federal fiscal year for Ashford University and the University of the Rockies were 13.3% and 2.8%, respectively. Because Ashford University's draft cohort default rate for the 2007 federal fiscal year exceeds 10%, it would no longer be exempt from the 30-day disbursement delay rule for first-year, first-time undergraduate student borrowers. The loss of this exemption has resulted in a delay in Ashford University receiving Title IV funds for such students and, accordingly, has negatively affected our cash flows, to the extent we would have otherwise been able to receive such funds sooner. 49 Table of Contents The August 2008 reauthorization of the Higher Education Act includes significant revisions to the requirements concerning cohort default rates. Under the revised law, the period for which students' defaults on their loans are included in the calculation of an institution's cohort default rate has been extended by one additional year, which is expected to increase the cohort default rates for most institutions. That change will be effective with the calculation of institutions' cohort default rates for the federal fiscal year ending September 30, 2009, which rates are expected to be calculated and issued by the U.S. Department of Education in 2012. The U.S. Department of Education will not impose sanctions based on rates calculated under this new methodology until three consecutive years of rates have been calculated, which is expected to occur in 2014. Until that time, the U.S. Department of Education will continue to calculate rates under the old calculation method and impose sanctions based on those rates. The revised law also increases the threshold for ending an institution's participation in the relevant Title IV programs from 25% to 30%, effective for final three-year cohort default rates published on or after the 2012 federal fiscal year. Ineligibility to participate in Title IV programs would have a material adverse effect on our enrollments, revenues and results of operations. Our failure to comply with regulations of various states could preclude us from recruiting or enrolling students in those states. Various states impose regulatory requirements on educational institutions operating within their boundaries. Several states have sought to assert jurisdiction over online educational institutions that have no physical location or other presence in the state but that offer educational services to students who reside in the state or that advertise to or recruit prospective students in the state. State regulatory requirements for online education are inconsistent between states and are not well developed in many jurisdictions. As such, these requirements are subject to change and in some instances are unclear or are left to the discretion of state employees or agents. Our changing business and the constantly changing regulatory environment require us to regularly evaluate our state regulatory compliance activities. If we are found not to be in compliance and a state seeks to restrict one or more of our business activities within that state, we may not be able to recruit students from that state and may have to cease recruiting or enrolling students in that state. Although the only state authorizations required for Ashford University and the University of the Rockies to participate in Title IV programs are the exemption for Ashford University in the State of Iowa and the University of the Rockies' authorization from the Colorado Commission of Higher Education, the loss of licensure or authorization in other states, or the assertion by other states that licensure is required within their states, could prohibit us from recruiting or enrolling students in those states. If a substantial number of our students cannot secure Title IV loans as a result of decreased lender participation in Title IV programs or if lenders increase the costs or reduce the benefits associated with the Title IV loans they provide, we could be materially adversely affected. The cumulative impact of recent regulatory and market developments has caused some lenders, including some lenders that have previously provided Title IV loans to our students, to cease providing Title IV loans to students. Other lenders have reduced the benefits and increased the fees associated with the Title IV loans they do provide. In addition, the new regulatory refinements may result in higher administrative costs for schools, including us. If the costs of Title IV loans increase or if availability decreases, some students may decide not to enroll in a postsecondary institution, which could have a material adverse effect on our enrollment, revenues and results of operations. In May 2008, new federal legislation was enacted to attempt to ensure that all eligible students will be able to 50 Table of Contents obtain Title IV loans in the future and that a sufficient number of lenders will continue to provide Title IV loans. Among other things, the new legislation: •authorizes the U.S. Department of Education to purchase Title IV loans from lenders, thereby providing capital to the lenders to enable them to continue making Title IV loans to students; and •permits the U.S. Department of Education to designate institutions eligible to participate in a "lender of last resort" program, under which federally recognized student loan guaranty agencies will be required to make Title IV loans to all otherwise eligible students at those institutions. We cannot predict whether the student loan liquidity provision in this legislation will be renewed when it expires on June 30, 2010. In September 2009, the House of Representatives passed the Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act of 2009, H.R. 3221. This legislation, which was designed to address the goals outlined by the budget of the Obama Administration, would amend the Higher Education Act to prohibit new federally guaranteed loans from being made under the Federal Family Education Loan Program (the "FFEL Program"), beginning on July 1, 2010, at which time all new federal education loans would be originated through the Federal Direct Loan Program. The legislation has not been passed by Congress and is subject to further review and amendment. If the proposal passes, our institutions would be required to certify loans through the Federal Direct Loan Program (for which we are eligible to participate) rather than through the FFEL Program. The elimination of the FFEL Program would also end the student loan subsidies and guarantees available to private lenders under the FFEL Program and would discourage such lenders from making student loans in the future. A reduction in the number of private lenders willing to provide loans to our students could have a material adverse effect on our enrollment, revenues and results of operations. If regulators do not approve or if they delay their approval of transactions involving a change of control of our company, our ability to participate in Title IV programs may be impaired. If we or either of our institutions undergoes a change of control under the standards of applicable state education agencies, the Higher Learning Commission or the U.S. Department of Education, we must seek the approval of each such regulatory agency. A failure by us or one of our institutions to reestablish its state authorization, Higher Learning Commission accreditation or U.S. Department of Education certification, as applicable, following a change of control could result in a suspension or loss of operating authority or the ability to participate in Title IV programs, which would have a material adverse effect on our enrollments, revenues and results of operations. The U.S. Department of Education and most state and accrediting agencies require institutions of higher education to report or obtain approval of certain changes of control and changes in other aspects of institutional organization or operations. Transactions or events that constitute a change of control may include significant acquisitions or dispositions of an institution's common stock and significant changes in the composition of an institution's board. The types of thresholds for such reporting and approval vary among the states and among accrediting agencies. The Higher Learning Commission issued amended policies in June 2009 which, among other provisions, provide that a disposition of stock by a holder that reduces the holder's ownership below 25% of the outstanding stock of a publicly traded company is a change of control requiring the prior approval of the Higher Learning Commission. The amended policies also provide that a sale of more than 10% and less than 25% of the outstanding common stock of a publicly traded company must be reported to the staff of the Higher Learning Commission, which may determine in some cases that such sale requires prior approval, or additional monitoring, by the Higher Learning Commission. The U.S. Department of Education regulations provide that a change of control occurs for a publicly traded corporation if either (i) a person acquires such ownership and control of the corporation so that the corporation is required 51 Table of Contents to file a current report on Form 8-K with the SEC disclosing a change of control, or (ii) the corporation's largest stockholder who owns at least 25% of the total outstanding voting stock of the corporation, ceases to own at least 25% of such stock or ceases to be the largest stockholder. A significant purchase or disposition of our voting stock could be determined by the U.S. Department of Education to be a change of control under this standard. In such event, the regulatory procedures applicable to a change in ownership and control would have to be followed in connection with the transaction. Similarly if such a disposition were deemed a change of control by the Higher Learning Commission or applicable state educational licensing agency, any required regulatory notifications and approvals would have to be made or obtained. The U.S. Department of Education confirmed that our initial public offering did not constitute a change of control under its regulations. The Higher Learning Commission determined that our initial public offering constituted a change of control under its standards. The Higher Learning Commission approved Ashford University's and University of the Rockies' applications seeking permission to proceed with the initial public offering and subsequently conducted separate on-site focused visits to both institutions months following our initial public offering to verify their compliance with the Higher Learning Commission's requirements. The visiting team to each institution issued a report confirming that the institutions continued to meet the Higher Learning Commission's requirements following our initial public offering. We cannot offer new programs, expand our physical operations into certain states or acquire additional schools if such actions are not approved in a timely fashion by the applicable regulatory agencies, and we may have to repay Title IV funds disbursed to students enrolled in any such programs, states or acquired schools if we do not obtain prior approval. Our expansion efforts include offering new educational programs, some of which may require regulatory approval. In addition, we may increase our physical operations in additional states and seek to acquire additional schools. If we are unable to obtain the necessary approvals for such new programs, operations or acquisitions from the U.S. Department of Education, the Higher Learning Commission or any applicable state education agency or other accrediting agency, or if we are unable to obtain such approvals in a timely manner, our ability to consummate the planned actions and provide Title IV funds to any affected students would be impaired, which could have a material adverse effect on our expansion plans. If we were to determine erroneously that any such action did not need approval or had all required approvals, we could be liable for repayment of the Title IV program funds provided to students in that program or at that location. Our regulatory environment and our reputation may be negatively influenced by the actions of other postsecondary institutions. In recent years, regulatory investigations and civil litigation have been commenced against several postsecondary educational institutions. These investigations and lawsuits have alleged, among other things, deceptive trade practices and noncompliance with U.S. Department of Education regulations. These allegations have attracted adverse media coverage and have been the subject of federal and state legislative hearings. Although the media, regulatory and legislative focus has been primarily on the allegations made against these specific companies, broader allegations against the overall postsecondary sector may negatively impact public perceptions of postsecondary educational institutions, including Ashford University and the University of the Rockies. Such allegations could result in increased scrutiny and regulation by the U.S. Department of Education, Congress, accrediting bodies, state legislatures or other governmental authorities on all postsecondary institutions, including ours. 52 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business Our financial performance depends on our ability to continue to develop awareness among, to recruit and to retain students. Building awareness among potential students of Ashford University and the University of the Rockies and the programs we offer is critical to our ability to attract prospective students. It is also critical to our success that we convert these prospective students to enrolled students in a cost-effective manner and that these enrolled students remain active in our programs. Some of the factors that could prevent us from successfully recruiting and retaining students in our programs include: •the emergence of more and better competitors; •factors related to our marketing efforts, including the costs of Internet advertising and broad-based branding campaigns; •performance problems with our online systems; •failure to maintain accreditation and eligibility for Title IV programs; •student dissatisfaction with our services and programs; •a decrease in the perceived or actual economic benefits that students derive from our programs; •adverse publicity regarding us or online or postsecondary education generally; •price reductions by competitors that we are unwilling or unable to match; and •a decline in the acceptance of online education. Strong competition in the postsecondary education market, especially in the online education market, could decrease our market share, increase our cost of recruiting students and put downward pressure on our tuition rates. Postsecondary education is highly competitive. We compete with traditional public and private two- and four-year colleges as well as with other postsecondary schools. Traditional colleges and universities may offer programs similar to ours at lower tuition levels as a result of government subsidies, government and foundation grants, tax-deductible contributions and other financial sources not available to for-profit postsecondary institutions. In addition, some of our competitors, including both traditional colleges and universities, have substantially greater brand recognition and financial and other resources than we have, which may enable them to compete more effectively for potential students. We also expect to face increased competition as a result of new entrants to the online education market, including traditional colleges and universities that had not previously offered online education programs. We may not be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors and may face competitive pressures that could adversely affect our business. We may be required to reduce our tuition or increase spending in order to retain or to attract students or to pursue new market opportunities. We may also face increased competition in maintaining and developing new marketing relationships with corporations, particularly as corporations become more selective as to which online universities they will encourage their employees to attend and from which they will hire prospective employees. System disruptions and vulnerability from security risks to our technology infrastructure could impact our ability to generate revenue and could damage the reputation of our institutions. The performance and reliability of our technology infrastructure is critical to our reputation and to our ability to attract and retain students. Historically, we have licensed the software and related hosting 53 Table of Contents and maintenance services for our online platform from Blackboard, Inc. (Blackboard Academic Suite) and the software and related maintenance services for our student information system from Campus Management Corp., both of whom are third-party software and service providers. Additionally, in September 2009, we entered into the eCollege License Agreement with eCollege, a third-party software and service provider, pursuant to which we agreed to license from eCollege an online learning platform for our students that replaced the Blackboard Academic Suite. We also develop and utilize proprietary software, primarily for our customer relationship management, or CRM, system. Any system error or failure, or a sudden and significant increase in bandwidth usage, could result in the unavailability of systems to us or our students. Our computer networks may also be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses and other security problems. A user who circumvents security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in operations. As a result, we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against this threat. Although we continually monitor the security of our technology infrastructure, we cannot assure you that these efforts will protect our computer networks against the threat of security breaches. We may not be able to retain our key personnel or hire and retain the personnel we need to sustain and grow our business. Our success depends largely on the skills, efforts and motivations of our executive officers, who generally have significant experience with our company and within the education industry. Due to the nature of our business, we face significant competition in attracting and retaining personnel who possess the skill sets we seek. In addition, key personnel may leave us and may subsequently compete against us. We do not carry life insurance on our key personnel for our benefit. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, or our failure to attract and retain other qualified and experienced personnel on acceptable terms, could impair our ability to sustain and grow our business. In addition, because we operate in a highly competitive industry, our hiring of qualified executives or other personnel may cause us or such persons to be subject to lawsuits alleging misappropriation of trade secrets, improper solicitation of employees or other claims. If we are unable to hire and to continue to develop new and existing employees responsible for student recruitment, the effectiveness of our student recruiting efforts would be adversely affected. To support our planned enrollment and revenue growth, we intend to (i) hire, develop and train a significant number of additional employees responsible for student recruitment and (ii) retain and continue to develop and train our current student recruitment personnel. Our ability to develop and maintain a strong student recruiting function may be affected by a number of factors, including our ability to integrate and motivate our enrollment advisors, our ability to effectively train our enrollment advisors, the length of time it takes new enrollment advisors to become productive, regulatory restrictions on the method of compensating enrollment advisors and the competition in hiring and retaining enrollment advisors. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting during recent periods. In connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements included in the registration statement on Form S-1 that we filed in connection with our initial public offering, we concluded that there were matters that constituted material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008. A material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of our financial statements would not be prevented or detected on a timely basis by our employees in 54 Table of Contents the normal course of performing their assigned functions. In particular, we concluded that we did not have: •a sufficient complement of personnel with an appropriate level of accounting knowledge, experience and training in the selection and application of GAAP, performance of supervisory review and analysis and application of sufficient analysis on significant contracts, judgments and estimates; or •effective controls over the selection, application and monitoring of accounting policies related to redeemable convertible preferred stock, earnings per share, leasing transactions, stock based compensation, revenue recognition and purchase accounting to ensure that such transactions were accounted for in conformity with GAAP. We restated our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 in large part due to these inadequate internal controls. In addition, in the preparation of our interim condensed consolidated financial statements for first quarter of 2009, we discovered an overstatement of potentially dilutive shares and therefore an understatement of our diluted earnings per common share for the year ended December 31, 2008. These matters were determined to be immaterial and have been corrected in the financial information contained in this report. Although we have remediated the material weaknesses discussed above, we cannot assure you that such steps will be effective in preventing significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. As a public company, we are required to file annual and quarterly reports containing our consolidated financial statements and are subject to the requirements and standards set by the SEC, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board ("PCAOB") and the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE"). If we fail to remediate our material weaknesses that may occur in the future, or to otherwise develop and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting, we could fail to timely and accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, have to restate our financial statements or have our stock delisted. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting that will be required when the SEC's rules under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the "Sarbanes-Oxley Act") become applicable to us beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2010. As a result, stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting and our stock price could suffer. A decline in the overall growth of enrollment in postsecondary institutions, or in the number of students seeking degrees online or in our core disciplines, could cause us to experience lower enrollment at our schools. We have experienced significant growth since we acquired Ashford University in 2005. However, while we have continued to achieve growth in revenues and enrollment year-over-year, these growth rates have declined in recent periods and may continue to decline in the future. According to a March 2009 report from the National Center for Education Statistics, enrollment in degree-granting, postsecondary institutions is projected to grow 10.0% over the ten-year period ending in the fall of 2017 to 20.1 million. This growth is slower than the 25.8% increase reported in the prior ten-year period ended in the fall of 2007, when enrollment increased from 14.5 million in 1997 to 18.2 million in 2007. Similarly, a November 2009 study by Eduventures projects a compound annual growth rate of 13% in online postsecondary enrollment over the five-year period ending fall 2014. This rate of growth is slower than the 25.3% compound annual growth rate for the prior five-year period ended in fall 2008, when online enrollment increased by an aggregate of 1.3 million. In order to maintain current growth rates, we will need to attract a larger percentage of students in existing markets and expand our markets by creating new academic programs. In addition, if job growth in the fields related to our core disciplines is weaker than expected, fewer students may seek the types of degrees that we offer. 55 Table of Contents Our success depends in part on our ability to update and expand the content of existing programs and to develop new programs, concentrations and specializations on a timely basis and in a cost-effective manner. The updates and expansions of our existing programs and the development of new programs, concentrations and specializations may not be accepted by existing or prospective students or employers. If we do not adequately respond to changes in market requirements, our business will be adversely affected. Even if we are able to develop acceptable new programs, we may not be able to introduce these new programs as quickly as students require or as quickly as our competitors introduce competing programs. To offer a new academic program, we may be required to obtain appropriate federal, state and accrediting agency approvals, which may be conditioned or delayed in a manner that could significantly affect our growth plans. In addition, to be eligible for federal student financial aid programs, a new academic program may need to be approved by the U.S. Department of Education. Establishing new academic programs or modifying existing programs requires us to make investments in management and capital expenditures, incur marketing expenses and reallocate other resources. We may have limited experience with the programs in new disciplines and may need to modify our systems and strategy or enter into arrangements with other educational institutions to provide new programs effectively and profitably. If we are unable to increase enrollment in new programs, offer new programs in a cost-effective manner or are otherwise unable to manage effectively the operations of newly established academic programs, our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our failure to keep pace with changing market needs could harm our ability to attract students. Our success depends to a large extent on the willingness of employers to hire, promote or increase the pay of our graduates. Increasingly, employers demand that their new employees possess appropriate technical and analytical skills and also appropriate interpersonal skills, such as communication and teamwork. These skills can evolve rapidly in a changing economic and technological environment. Accordingly, it is important that our educational programs evolve in response to those economic and technological changes. The expansion of existing academic programs and the development of new programs may not be accepted by current or prospective students or by the employers of our graduates. Even if we develop acceptable new programs, we may not be able to begin offering those new programs in a timely fashion or as quickly as our competitors offer similar programs. If we are unable to adequately respond to changes in market requirements due to regulatory or financial constraints, unusually rapid technological changes or other factors, the rates at which our graduates obtain jobs in their fields of study could suffer, our ability to attract and retain students could be impaired and our business could be adversely affected. We are subject to laws and regulations as a result of our collection and use of personal information, and any violations of such laws or regulations, or any breach, theft or loss of such information, could adversely affect us. Possession and use of personal information in our operations subjects us to risks and costs that could harm our business. We collect, use and retain large amounts of personal information regarding our applicants, students, faculty, staff and their families, including social security numbers, tax return information, personal and family financial data and credit card numbers. We also collect and maintain personal information about our employees in the ordinary course of our business. Our services can be accessed globally through the Internet. Therefore, we may be subject to the application of national privacy laws in countries outside the United States from which applicants and students access our services. Such privacy laws could impose conditions that limit the way we market and provide our services. Our computer networks and the networks of certain of our vendors that hold and manage 56 Table of Contents confidential information on our behalf may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, employee theft or misuse, computer hackers, computer viruses and other security threats. Confidential information may also inadvertently become available to third parties when we integrate systems or migrate data to our servers following an acquisition of a school or in connection with periodic hardware or software upgrades. Due to the sensitive nature of the personal information stored on our servers, our networks may be targeted by hackers seeking to access this data. A user who circumvents security measures could misappropriate sensitive information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations. Although we use security and business controls to limit access and use of personal information, a third party may be able to circumvent those security and business controls, which could result in a breach of student or employee privacy. In addition, errors in the storage, use or transmission of personal information could result in a breach of privacy for current or prospective students or employees. Possession and use of personal information in our operations also subjects us to legislative and regulatory burdens that could require notification of data breaches and could restrict our use of personal information, and a violation of any laws or regulations relating to the collection or use of personal information could result in the imposition of fines against us. As a result, we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of these security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. A major breach, theft or loss of personal information regarding our students and their families or our employees that is held by us or our vendors, or a violation of laws or regulations relating to the same, could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and could result in further regulation and oversight by federal and state authorities and increased costs of compliance. An increase in interest rates could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain students. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, Ashford University derived 85.5% and 86.8%, respectively, of its revenues (calculated on a cash basis in accordance with applicable U.S. Department of Education regulations) from Title IV programs. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, the University of the Rockies derived 84.6% and 80.8%, respectively, of its revenues (calculated on a cash basis in accordance with applicable U.S. Department of Education regulations) from Title IV programs. Additionally, some of our students finance their education through private loans that are not part of Title IV programs. Interest rates have reached relatively low levels in recent years, creating a favorable borrowing environment for students. However, if Congress increases interest rates on Title IV loans, or if private loan interest rates rise, our students would have to pay higher interest rates on their loans. Any future increase in interest rates will result in a corresponding increase in educational costs to our existing and prospective students. Higher interest rates could also contribute to higher default rates with respect to our students' repayment of their education loans. Higher default rates may in turn adversely impact our eligibility to participate in some or all Title IV programs, which would have a material adverse effect on our enrollment, revenues and results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive market with rapid technological change, and we may not have the resources needed to compete successfully. Online education is a highly competitive market that is characterized by rapid changes in students' technological requirements and expectations and evolving market standards. Our competitors vary in size and organization, and we compete for students with traditional public and private two- and four-year colleges and universities and other postsecondary schools, including those that offer online educational programs. Each of these competitors may develop platforms or other technologies that allow for greater levels of interactivity between faculty and students or that are otherwise superior to the platform and technology we use, and these differences may affect our ability to recruit and retain students. We may not have the resources necessary to acquire or compete with technologies being developed by our competitors, which may render our online delivery format less competitive or obsolete. 57 Table of Contents Our growth may place a strain on our resources. We have experienced significant growth since we acquired Ashford University in 2005. The growth that we have experienced in the past, as well as any further growth that we experience, may place a significant strain on our resources and increase demands on our management information and reporting systems and financial management controls. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively while maintaining appropriate internal controls, we may experience operating inefficiencies that could increase our costs. We rely on exclusive proprietary rights and intellectual property that may not be adequately protected under current laws, and we may encounter disputes from time to time relating to our use of intellectual property of third parties. Our success depends in part on our ability to protect our proprietary rights. We rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, domain names and agreements to protect our proprietary rights. We rely on service mark and trademark protection in the United States and select foreign jurisdictions to protect our rights to the marks "Ashford," "Ashford University," "Bridgepoint," "Classline" and "Smart Track" as well as distinctive logos and other marks associated with our services. We rely on agreements under which we obtain rights to use course content developed by faculty members and other third-party content experts. We cannot assure you that these measures will be adequate, that we have secured, or will be able to secure, appropriate protections for all of our proprietary rights in the United States or select foreign jurisdictions or that third parties will not infringe upon or violate our proprietary rights. Despite our efforts to protect these rights, unauthorized third parties may attempt to duplicate or copy the proprietary aspects of our curricula, online resource material and other content. Our management's attention may be diverted by these attempts, and we may need to use funds in litigation to protect our proprietary rights against any infringement or violation. We may encounter disputes from time to time over rights and obligations concerning intellectual property, and we may not prevail in these disputes. In certain instances, we may not have obtained sufficient rights in the content of a course. Third parties may raise a claim against us alleging an infringement or violation of the intellectual property of that third party. Some third party intellectual property rights may be extremely broad, and it may not be possible for us to conduct our operations in such a way as to avoid those intellectual property rights. Any such intellectual property claim could subject us to costly litigation and impose a significant strain on our financial resources and management personnel regardless of whether such claim has merit. Our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type adequately or at all, and we may be required to alter the content of our classes or pay monetary damages, which may be significant. We may incur liability for the unauthorized duplication or distribution of class materials posted online for class discussions. In some instances our faculty members or our students may post various articles or other third-party content on class discussion boards. We may incur liability for the unauthorized duplication or distribution of this material posted online for class discussions. Third parties may raise claims against us for the unauthorized duplication of this material. Any such claims could subject us to costly litigation and could impose a significant strain on our financial resources and management personnel regardless of whether the claims have merit. Our general liability insurance may not cover potential claims of this type adequately or at all, and we may be required to alter the content of our courses or pay monetary damages. 58 Table of Contents Our student enrollment and revenues could decrease if the government tuition assistance offered to military personnel is reduced or eliminated, if scholarships which we offer to military personnel are reduced or eliminated or if our relationships with military bases deteriorate. As of December 31, 2009, 17.1% of our students were affiliated with the military, some of whom are eligible to receive tuition assistance from the government, which they may use to pursue postsecondary degrees. If governmental tuition assistance programs to active duty members of the military are reduced or eliminated or if our relationships with any military base deteriorates, our enrollment could suffer. Additionally, we provide scholarships to students who are affiliated with the military. If we reduce or eliminate our scholarships, our enrollment by military personnel may suffer. In addition, if we increase our scholarships, our per student revenue from military affiliated personnel will decline. Our expenses may cause us to incur operating losses if we are unsuccessful in achieving growth. Our spending is based, in significant part, on our estimates of future revenue and is largely fixed in the short term. As a result, we may be unable to adjust our spending in a timely manner if our revenue falls short of our expectations. Accordingly, any significant shortfall in revenues in relation to our expectations would have an immediate and material adverse effect on our profitability. In addition, as our business grows, we anticipate increasing our operating expenses to expand our program offerings, marketing initiatives and administrative organization. Any such expansion could cause material losses to the extent we do not generate additional revenues sufficient to cover those expenses. Seasonal and other fluctuations in our results of operations could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Although not apparent in our results of operations due to our rapid rate of growth, our operations are generally subject to seasonal trends. As our growth rate declines we expect to experience seasonal fluctuations in results of operations as a result of changes in the level of student enrollment. While we enroll students throughout the year, first and fourth quarter new enrollments and revenue generally are lower than other quarters due to the holiday break in December and January. We generally experience a seasonal increase in new enrollments in August and September of each year when most other colleges and universities begin their fall semesters. These fluctuations may cause volatility in or have an adverse effect on the market price of our stock. We have a limited operating history. Accordingly, our historical and recent financial and business results may not necessarily be representative of what such results will be in the future. We have a limited operating history on which you can evaluate our business strategy, our financial results and trends in our business. As a result, our historical results and trends, including enrollments, cohort default rates and bad debt expense, may not be indicative of our future results. Also, until recently we have been operating in a favorable economic environment and have not experienced how our business might be affected by economic downturns, such as the recent deterioration in the U.S. economy. We are subject to risks and uncertainties that are not typically encountered by companies that have longer operating histories or that are in more mature businesses. Therefore, our recent operating history may not be representative of our business going forward, and we may not be able to sustain our recent profitability. Government regulations relating to the Internet could increase our cost of doing business, affect our ability to grow or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business. The increasing popularity and use of the Internet and other online services has led and may lead to the adoption of new laws and regulatory practices in the United States or in foreign countries and to 59 Table of Contents new interpretations of existing laws and regulations. These new laws and interpretations may relate to issues such as online privacy, copyrights, trademarks and service marks, sales taxes, fair business practices and the requirement that online education institutions qualify to do business as foreign corporations or be licensed in one or more jurisdictions where they have no physical location or other presence. New laws, regulations or interpretations related to doing business over the Internet could increase our costs and materially and adversely affect our enrollments. We use third-party software for our online platform, and if the provider of that software was to cease to do business or was acquired by a competitor, we may have difficulty maintaining the software required for our online platform or updating it for future technological changes. In September 2009, we entered into a license agreement with Pearson eCollege, or eCollege, pursuant to which we agreed to license from eCollege an online learning platform for our students. The eCollege online learning platform provides an online learning management system which provides for the storage, management and delivery of course content. This platform also includes collaborative spaces for student communication and participation with other students and faculty as well as grade and attendance management for faculty and assessment capabilities to assist us in maintaining quality. We rely on eCollege for administrative support and hosting of the applicable systems. If eCollege ceases to operate or is unable or unwilling to continue to provide us with services or upgrades on a timely basis, we may have difficulty maintaining the software required for our online platform or updating it for future technological changes. We may incur significant costs complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act and with similar laws. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or the ADA, all public accommodations must meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Additional federal, state and local laws also may require modifications to our properties, or restrict our ability to renovate our properties. For example, the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988, or FHAA, requires apartment properties first occupied after March 13, 1990, to be accessible to the handicapped. We have not conducted an audit or investigation of all of our properties to determine our compliance with present requirements. Noncompliance with the ADA or FHAA could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants and also could result in an order to correct any non-complying feature. We cannot predict the ultimate amount of the cost of compliance with the ADA, FHAA or other legislation. Our failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations governing our activities could result in financial penalties and other costs. We use hazardous materials at our ground campuses and generate small quantities of waste, such as used oil, antifreeze, paint, car batteries and laboratory materials. Additionally, we purchased land nearby our Ashford University campus in Clinton, Iowa, for purposes of future campus expansion. We identified minor environmental issues in connection with the purchase of this land, including the fact that the land, which has historically been used as a golf course, was subject to customary and heavy applications of fertilizer and fungicide. As a result, we are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations governing, among other things, the use, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous substances and waste and the clean-up of contamination at our facilities or off-site locations to which we send or have sent waste for disposal. If we do not maintain compliance with any of these laws and regulations, or are responsible for a spill or release of hazardous materials, we could incur significant costs for clean-up, damages and fines or penalties. 60 Table of Contents Our failure to obtain additional capital in the future could adversely affect our ability to grow. We believe that cash flow from operations will be adequate to fund our current operating and growth plans for the foreseeable future. However, we may need additional financing in order to finance our continued growth, particularly if we pursue any acquisitions. The amount, timing and terms of such additional financing will vary principally depending on the timing and size of new program offerings, the timing and size of acquisitions we may seek to consummate and the amount of cash flows from our operations. To the extent that we require additional financing in the future, such financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all and, consequently, we may not be able to fully implement our growth strategy. Failure to comply with the terms of our Credit Agreement with Comerica Bank could impair our rights to the assets we pledged as collateral under this agreement. In January 2010, we entered into a Credit Agreement (and related documents) with Comerica Bank, or Comerica, pursuant to which we may borrow up to $50 million pursuant to a revolving line of credit. To secure our obligations under the Credit Agreement (and related documents), we granted Comerica a first priority security interest in substantially all of our assets, including our real property. If an event of default occurs or if we otherwise fail to comply with any of the negative or affirmative covenants of the Credit Agreement (and related documents), Comerica may declare all of the obligations and indebtedness under the Credit Agreement (and related documents) due and payable. For more information about the Credit Agreement and related documents, see Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources. In such a scenario, we may lose our right, title, and interest in the property that secures such obligations and indebtedness. If we are not able to integrate acquired institutions, our business could be harmed. From time to time, we may pursue acquisitions of other institutions. Integrating acquired operations into our business involves significant risks and uncertainties, including: •inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, policies and procedures; •distraction of management's attention from normal business operations during the integration process; •inability to obtain, or delay in obtaining, approval of the acquisition from the necessary regulatory agencies, or the imposition of operating restrictions or a letter of credit requirement on us or on the acquired school by any of those regulatory agencies; •expenses associated with the integration efforts; and •unidentified issues not discovered in our due diligence process, including legal contingencies. A protracted economic slowdown and rising unemployment could harm our business. We believe that many students pursue postsecondary education to be more competitive in the job market. However, a protracted economic slowdown could increase unemployment and diminish job prospects generally. Diminished job prospects and heightened financial worries could affect the willingness of students to incur loans to pay for postsecondary education and to pursue postsecondary education in general. As a result, our enrollment could suffer. In addition, many of our students borrow Title IV loans to pay for tuition, fees and other expenses. A protracted economic slowdown could negatively impact our students' ability to repay those loans which would negatively impact our cohort default rate. See "Risks Related to the Extensive 61 Table of Contents Regulation of Our Business—We may lose eligibility to participate in Title IV programs if our student loan default rates are too high" above. Our students also are frequently able to borrow Title IV loans in excess of their tuition. The excess is received by the students as a stipend. However, if a student withdraws, we must return any unearned Title IV funds including stipends. A protracted economic slowdown could negatively impact our students' ability to repay those stipends. As a result, the amount of Title IV funds we would have to return without reimbursement from students (and our bad debt expense) could increase, and our results could suffer. If we become involved in litigation or other legal proceedings, we could incur significant defense costs and losses in the event of adverse outcomes. From time to time, we are a party to various lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business. We are not at this time a party, as plaintiff or defendant, to any legal proceedings which, individually or in the aggregate, would be expected to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our corporate headquarters are located in a high brush fire danger area and near major earthquake fault lines. Our corporate headquarters are located in San Diego, California in a high brush fire danger area and near major earthquake fault lines. We could be materially and adversely affected in the event of a brush fire or major earthquake, either of which could significantly disrupt our business. Risk Related to Our Common Stock The price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly and you could lose all or part of your investment. Volatility in the market price of our common stock may prevent you from being able to sell your shares at or above the price you paid for your shares. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past, and there is no assurance it will not continue to fluctuate significantly for various reasons, which include: •our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry; •the public's reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC; •changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts who track our common stock or the stocks of other companies in our industry; •seasonal variations in our student enrollment; •new laws or regulations or new interpretations of laws or regulations applicable to our business; •changes in our enrollment or in the growth rate of our enrollment; •changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; •litigation involving our company or investigations or audits by regulators into the operations of our company or our competitors; •sales of common stock by our directors, executive officers and significant stockholders; and •changes in general conditions in the United States and global economies or financial markets, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to such events. 62 Table of Contents In addition, in recent years, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industry. Changes may occur without regard to the operating performance of these companies. The price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our company. If securities or industry analysts change their recommendations regarding our stock adversely or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Moreover, if one or more of the analysts who cover our company downgrade our stock or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline. As a public company, we are subject to additional financial and other reporting and corporate governance requirements that can be difficult for us to satisfy and may divert management attention from our business. As a public company, we are required to file with the SEC annual and quarterly information and other reports pursuant to the Exchange Act. We are required to ensure that we have the ability to prepare financial statements that comply with SEC reporting requirements on a timely basis. We are also subject to other reporting and corporate governance requirements, including the listing standards of the NYSE and certain provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder, which impose significant compliance obligations upon us. Specifically, we are required to: •prepare and distribute periodic reports and other stockholder communications in compliance with our obligations under the federal securities laws and NYSE rules; •create or expand the roles and duties of our board of directors and committees of the board; •institute compliance and internal audit functions that are more comprehensive; •evaluate and maintain our system of internal control over financial reporting, and report on management's assessment thereof, in compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the related rules and regulations of the SEC and the PCAOB; •involve and retain outside legal counsel and accountants in connection with the activities listed above; •enhance our investor relations function; and •maintain internal policies, including those relating to disclosure controls and procedures. As a public company we are required to commit significant resources and management oversight to the above-listed requirements which causes us to incur significant costs and which places a strain on our systems and resources. As a result, our management's attention might be diverted from other business concerns. In addition, we might not be successful in implementing these requirements. In particular, our internal control over financial reporting has not yet been fully tested to determine if it meets the standards set forth in Internal Control—Integrated Framework, issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting must be assessed by management for each year commencing with the year ending December 31, 2010. We do not currently have comprehensive documentation of our internal control over financial reporting, nor have we fully documented or tested our compliance with these controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. 63 Table of Contents We have not tested our internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 and such a test would not be possible to perform at this time. If we are unable to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to report on the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting commencing with the year ending December 31, 2010. If we are unable to maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to report our financial information on a timely basis and may suffer adverse regulatory consequences or violations of NYSE listing standards. There could also be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of investor confidence in us and the reliability of our financial statements. Sales of outstanding shares of our stock into the market in the future could cause the market price of our stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. If our stockholders sell, or indicate an intention to sell, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline. At December 31, 2009, 54,266,481 shares of our common stock were outstanding. The 15,525,000 shares sold in our initial public offering are freely tradable without restriction or further registration under federal securities laws unless purchased by our affiliates. Pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act, shares held by non-affiliates for more than six months may generally be sold without restriction, other than a current public information requirement, and may be sold freely without any restrictions after one year. Shares held by affiliates may also be sold under Rule 144, subject to applicable restrictions, including volume and manner of sale limitations. In addition, as of December 31, 2009, there were 7.2 million shares underlying outstanding options and 0.6 million shares underlying outstanding warrants. All shares subject to outstanding options and warrants are eligible for sale in the public market to the extent permitted by the provisions of various option and warrant agreements and Rule 144. If these additional shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold in the public market, the trading price of our stock could decline. Your percentage ownership in us may be diluted by future issuances of capital stock, which could reduce your influence over matters on which stockholders vote. Our board of directors has the authority, without action or vote of our stockholders, to issue all or any part of our authorized but unissued shares of common stock, including shares issuable upon the exercise of options, shares that may be issued to satisfy our obligations under our incentive plans or shares of our authorized but unissued preferred stock. Issuances of common stock or voting preferred stock would reduce your influence over matters on which our stockholders vote and, in the case of issuances of preferred stock, likely would result in your interest in us being subject to the prior rights of holders of that preferred stock. Our principal stockholder has significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval and access to our management. As of December 31, 2009, Warburg Pincus beneficially owned 64.9% of our outstanding common stock. Warburg Pincus may exercise significant influence over the election of our directors, amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and other actions requiring the vote or consent of our stockholders, including mergers, going private transactions and other extraordinary transactions. The ownership position of Warburg Pincus may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change of control or a change in the composition of our board of directors. Additionally, in February 2009, we entered into a nominating agreement with Warburg Pincus. Under the nominating agreement, as long as Warburg Pincus beneficially owns at least 15% of the outstanding shares of common stock, we will, subject to our fiduciary obligations, nominate and 64 Table of Contents recommend to our stockholders that two individuals designated by Warburg Pincus be elected to the board. Additionally, if Warburg Pincus beneficially owns less than 15% but more than 5% of the outstanding shares of common stock, we will, subject to our fiduciary obligations, nominate and recommend to our stockholders that one individual designated by Warburg Pincus be elected to the board. Two directors affiliated with Warburg Pincus, Patrick T. Hackett and Adarsh Sarma, currently serve on our board of directors. We currently do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment is if the price of our common stock appreciates. We do not expect to pay dividends on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future and we intend to use cash to grow our business. Consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a positive return on your investment in us will be if the market price of our common stock appreciates. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, may depress the trading price of our stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could depress the trading price of our stock by acting to discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management that the stockholders of our company may deem advantageous. These provisions: •authorize the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock that our board of directors could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares to discourage a takeover attempt; •provide for a classified board of directors (three classes); •provide that stockholders may only remove directors for cause; •provide that any vacancy on our board of directors, including a vacancy resulting from an increase in the size of the board, may only be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of our directors then in office, even if less than a quorum; •provide that a special meeting of stockholders may only be called by our board of directors or by our chief executive officer; •provide that action by written consent of the stockholders may be taken only if the board of directors first approves such action, except that if Warburg Pincus holds at least 50% of our outstanding capital stock on a fully diluted basis, whenever the vote of stockholders is required at a meeting for any corporate action, the meeting and vote of stockholders may be dispensed with, and the action taken without such meeting and vote, if a written consent is signed by the holders of outstanding stock having not less than the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize or take such action at the meeting of stockholders; provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing, we will hold an annual meeting of stockholders in accordance with NYSE rules, for so long as our shares are listed on the NYSE, and as otherwise required by the bylaws; •provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws; and •establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. Additionally, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business 65 Table of Contents combinations with any "interested" stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an "interested" stockholder. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 