1A. Risk Factors” in this annual report on Form 10-K. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following discussion of “risk factors” identifies the most significant factors that may adversely affect our business, operations, financial position or future financial performance. This information should be read in conjunction with Management’s Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) and the consolidated financial statements and related notes incorporated by reference into this report. The following discussion of risks is not all-inclusive, but is designed to highlight what we believe are important factors to consider when evaluating our expectations. These factors could cause our future results to differ from those in forward-looking statements and from historical trends. Several of Ashland’s businesses are cyclical in nature, and economic downturns or declines in demand, particularly for certain durable goods, may negatively impact its revenues and profitability. The profitability of Ashland is susceptible to downturns in the economy, particularly in those segments related to durable goods, including the housing, construction, automotive and marine industries. Both overall demand for Ashland’s products and services and its profitability will likely change as a direct result of an economic recession, inflation, changes in hydrocarbon (and its derivatives) and other raw materials prices or changes in governmental monetary or fiscal policies. Ashland may not be able to successfully redeploy the proceeds of the MAP Transaction in a value-creating manner. Ashland may not be able to successfully redeploy the MAP Transaction proceeds in a manner that will generate value for its shareholders. To the extent that the proceeds of the MAP Transaction are used for business acquisitions, there is a risk that the acquisition will fail to provide expected returns to Ashland’s shareholders. In addition, the process of integrating acquired operations into Ashland’s existing operations may result in unforeseen difficulties. Those difficulties might reduce Ashland’s profitability and delay the expected benefits of integrating any acquisition. Ashland’s implementation of its SAP™ enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) project has the potential for business interruption and associated adverse impact on operating results as well as internal controls. In 2004, Ashland initiated a multi-year ERP project that is expected to achieve increased efficiency and effectiveness in supply chain, financial and environmental, health and safety processes. The implementations completed to date in all four of our businesses throughout North America, Europe, the Middle East and Africa provide a common ERP for Ashland’s operations now generating more than 85% of Ashland’s consolidated revenues. Ashland intends to proceed with additional implementations of the ERP within certain of its remaining operations, including those in China and Singapore, in fiscal 2008. Extensive planning has occurred to support effective implementation of the ERP system; however, such 6 implementations carry certain risks, including potential for business interruption with the associated adverse impact on operating income. In addition, internal controls that are modified or redesigned to support the new ERP system may not have been completely tested. As a result, there is a risk that deficiencies may or will exist in the future and that they could constitute significant deficiencies, or in the aggregate, a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting. Ashland Water Technologies’ business model redesign may result in consequences which could adversely impact financial performance. Ashland Water Technologies has implemented a business model redesign to improve its financial performance. The business model redesign project changes how Ashland approaches various markets and the roles of many Ashland Water Technologies employees. If this new business model is executed poorly, it may result in added expense, customer dissatisfaction or regrettable employee turnover, any or all of which could adversely affect Ashland’s financial performance. The competitive nature of Ashland’s markets may delay or prevent the company from passing increases in raw materials costs on to its customers. In addition, certain of Ashland’s suppliers may be unable to deliver products or raw materials or may withdraw from contractual arrangements. The occurrence of either event could adversely affect Ashland’s results of operations. Rising and volatile raw material prices, especially those of hydrocarbon derivatives, may negatively impact Ashland’s costs. Ashland is not always able to raise prices in response to such increased costs, and its ability to pass on the costs of such price increases is dependent upon market conditions. Likewise, Ashland purchases certain products and raw materials from suppliers, often pursuant to written supply contracts. If those suppliers are unable to timely meet Ashland’s orders or choose to terminate or otherwise avoid contractual arrangements, Ashland may not be able to make alternative supply arrangements. If Ashland is unable to obtain and retain qualified suppliers under commercially acceptable terms, its ability to manufacture and deliver products in a timely, competitive and profitable manner could be adversely affected. Ashland is responsible for, and has financial exposure to, liabilities from pending and threatened claims, including those alleging personal injury caused by exposure to asbestos, which reduce Ashland’s cash flows and could reduce profitability. There are various claims, lawsuits and administrative proceedings pending or threatened against Ashland and its current and former subsidiaries. Such actions are with respect to commercial matters, product liability, toxic tort liability and other matters which seek remedies or damages, some of which are for substantial amounts. While these actions are being contested, their outcome is not predictable. In addition, Ashland is subject to liabilities from claims alleging personal injury caused by exposure to asbestos. Such claims result primarily from indemnification obligations undertaken in 1990 in connection with the sale of Riley Stoker Corporation (“Riley”), a former subsidiary of Ashland. Although Riley was neither a producer nor a manufacturer of asbestos, its industrial boilers contained some asbestos-containing components provided by other companies. As a result of the transactions, Ashland is responsible for, and has financial exposure to, these liabilities, which reduce Ashland’s cash flows and could reduce profitability. Ashland has incurred, and may continue to incur, substantial operating costs and capital expenditures as a result of environmental, health and safety liabilities and requirements, which could reduce Ashland’s profitability. Ashland is subject to various U.S. and foreign laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and worker health and safety. These laws and regulations regulate discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and the cleanup of contaminated properties. The costs of complying with these laws and regulations can be substantial and may increase as applicable requirements become more stringent and new rules are implemented. If Ashland violates the requirements of these laws and regulations, it may be forced to pay substantial fines, to complete additional costly projects or to modify or curtail its operations to limit contaminant emissions. Ashland is responsible for, and has financial exposure to, substantially all of the environmental liabilities and other liabilities of Ashland and its subsidiaries. Ashland has investigated and remediated a number of its current and former properties. Engineering studies, historical experience and other factors are used to identify and evaluate remediation alternatives and their related costs in determining the estimated reserves for environmental remediation. Environmental remediation reserves are subject to numerous inherent uncertainties that affect Ashland’s ability to estimate its share of the costs. Such uncertainties involve the nature and extent of contamination at each site, the extent of required cleanup efforts under existing environmental regulations, widely varying costs of alternate cleanup methods, changes in environmental regulations, the potential effect of continuing improvements in remediation technology and the number and financial strength of other potentially responsible parties at multiparty sites. 7 Ashland’s customers or markets may migrate to developing countries where it may have an insufficient presence. Also, Ashland may need to shift manufacturing of certain products to lower-cost countries or developing economies to remain competitive in its industry. Ashland’s North American customers are subject to increasing foreign competition from developing economies. If the demand for products manufactured by its North American customers declines, then demand for Ashland’s products in North America will also decline, with the potential to negatively impact Ashland’s results. In recent years, new production capacity in the chemical industry has been shifting to countries with developing economies where demand is growing more rapidly and the cost of production is lower. Ashland is investing in such countries and has announced plans to significantly expand operations in China. There are certain political and other risks associated with doing business in such countries. Moreover, as Ashland continues to invest in additional overseas facilities, its capital expenditures will increase to reflect the cost of construction of these facilities, which could impact Ashland’s cash flow. This additional manufacturing capacity may also make some of Ashland’s existing sites redundant, triggering potential write-offs and severance payments. In addition, as Ashland and its competitors shift production to lower-cost locations, worldwide pricing for certain products may decline, negatively impacting Ashland’s margins for those products. Provisions of Ashland’s articles of incorporation and by-laws and Kentucky law could deter takeover attempts and adversely affect Ashland’s stock price. Provisions of Ashland’s articles of incorporation and by-laws could make acquiring control of Ashland without the support of its Board of Directors difficult for a third party, even if the change of control might be beneficial to Ashland shareholders. Ashland’s articles of incorporation and by-laws contain: × provisions relating to the classification, nomination and removal of its directors; × provisions limiting the right of shareholders to call special meetings of its Board of Directors and shareholders; × provisions regulating the ability of its shareholders to bring matters for action at annual meetings of its shareholders; and × the authorization given to its Board of Directors to issue and set the terms of preferred stock. Ashland’s articles of incorporation and the laws of Kentucky impose some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between Ashland and any beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of its outstanding common stock. The existence of these provisions may deprive shareholders of any opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over the prevailing market price for Ashland Common Stock. The potential inability of Ashland shareholders to obtain a control premium could adversely affect the market price for its common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 