1A. Risk Factors” in this annual report on Form 10-K. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following discussion of “risk factors” identifies the most significant factors that may adversely affect Ashland’s business, operations, financial position or future financial performance. This information should be read in conjunction with Management’s Discussion and Analysis and the consolidated financial statements and related notes incorporated by reference into this annual report on Form 10-K. The following discussion of risks is designed to highlight what Ashland believes are important factors to consider when evaluating its expectations. These factors could cause future results to differ from those in forward-looking statements and from historical trends. Several of Ashland’s businesses are cyclical in nature, and economic downturns or declines in demand, particularly for certain durable goods, may negatively impact its revenues and profitability. Ashland’s revenues and profitability are susceptible to downturns in the economy, particularly in those segments serving the housing, construction, automotive, paper and marine industries. Both overall demand for Ashland’s products and services and its profitability are affected by economic recession, inflation, changes in prices of hydrocarbon (and its derivatives) and other raw materials or changes in governmental monetary or fiscal policies. During the economic downturn, a number of Ashland’s customers in the construction, automotive, paper and certain other industries are experiencing financial and production stresses, which has led to decreased demand for Ashland’s products and has affected Ashland’s margins on products sold. While Ashland strives to reduce costs to help offset the effects of this decreased demand, there is no assurance Ashland will be able to manage costs in light of any further demand decreases. If the economic downturn intensifies or there is a further decline in customer demand, Ashland’s business, results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted. Ashland is undergoing a strategic transformation which introduces uncertainties regarding its business, financial condition and results of operations. Ashland’s strategic objective has been to create a more focused company built around a strong core of specialty chemicals businesses. Ashland intends to invest in and to grow its specialty chemicals businesses, operating its other businesses to generate strong cash flows to fund this investment. As a result, Ashland is currently in a transformational period in which it has made and may continue to make changes that could be material to its business, financial condition and results of operations. Over the past five years, changes have included the disposition of Ashland’s refining and marketing and highway construction businesses and the acquisition of Hercules. In addition, because Ashland’s businesses differed from Hercules’ businesses, the results of operations of the combined company may be affected by factors different from those affecting Ashland prior to the Hercules Transaction, and the realization of the full benefits anticipated from the Hercules Transaction may not be achieved. It is difficult to predict the impact of any future changes on Ashland’s business, financial condition or results of operations. 8 The competitive nature of Ashland’s markets may delay or prevent the Company from passing increases in raw materials costs on to its customers. In addition, certain of Ashland’s suppliers may be unable to deliver products or raw materials or may withdraw from contractual arrangements. The occurrence of either event could adversely affect Ashland’s results of operations. Rising and volatile raw material prices, especially those of hydrocarbon derivatives, may negatively impact Ashland’s costs. Ashland is not always able to raise prices in response to such increased costs, and its ability to pass on the costs of such price increases is dependent upon market conditions. Likewise, Ashland purchases certain products and raw materials from suppliers, often pursuant to written supply contracts. If those suppliers are unable to timely meet Ashland’s orders or choose to terminate or otherwise avoid contractual arrangements, Ashland may not be able to make alternative supply arrangements. If Ashland is unable to obtain and retain qualified suppliers under commercially acceptable terms, its ability to manufacture and deliver products in a timely, competitive and profitable manner could be adversely affected. Ashland’s substantial indebtedness may impair its financial condition and prevent it from fulfilling its obligations under the debt instruments. As a result of the Hercules Transaction, Ashland has incurred a substantial amount of debt. Ashland’s substantial indebtedness could have important consequences including: § limiting Ashland’s ability to borrow additional amounts to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of its growth strategy and other purposes; § requiring Ashland to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to pay interest on its debt, which would reduce availability of Ashland’s cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, execution of its growth strategy and other general corporate purposes; § making Ashland more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and government regulations and in its business by limiting its flexibility in planning for, and making it more difficult for Ashland to react quickly to, changing conditions; § placing Ashland at a competitive disadvantage compared with those of its competitors that have less debt; and § exposing Ashland to risks inherent in interest rate fluctuations because some of its borrowings will be at variable rates of interest, which could result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates. In addition, Ashland may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from its operations to repay its indebtedness when it becomes due and to meet its other cash needs. If Ashland is not able to pay its debts as they become due, Ashland will be required to pursue one or more alternative strategies, such as selling assets, refinancing or restructuring its indebtedness or selling additional debt or equity securities. Ashland may not be able to refinance its debt or sell additional debt or equity securities or its assets on favorable terms, if at all, and if Ashland must sell its assets, such sales may negatively affect its ability to generate revenues. Ashland’s restrictive debt covenants may affect its ability to operate its business successfully. The terms of Ashland’s credit facilities and senior unsecured notes contain various provisions that limit its ability to, among other things: grant liens; incur additional indebtedness, guarantees or other contingent obligations; engage in mergers and consolidations; sell, transfer and otherwise dispose of property and assets; make loans, acquisitions, joint ventures and other investments; declare dividends, make distributions or redeem or repurchase capital stock; change the nature of Ashland’s business; and enter into transactions with its affiliates. These covenants could adversely affect Ashland’s ability to finance its future operations or capital needs and pursue available business opportunities. In addition, Ashland’s credit facilities require it to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests. Events beyond Ashland’s control, including changes in general economic and business conditions, may affect its ability to meet those financial ratios and financial condition tests. Ashland cannot assure that it will meet those tests or that the lenders will waive any failure to meet those tests. A breach of any of these covenants or any other restrictive covenants contained in Ashland’s credit facilities or senior unsecured notes would result in an event of default. If an event of default under Ashland’s credit facilities occurs, the holders of the affected indebtedness could declare all amounts outstanding, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable, which, in turn, could cause the default and acceleration of the maturity of certain of Ashland’s other indebtedness. If Ashland was unable to pay such amounts, the lenders under its credit facilities could proceed against the collateral pledged to them. Ashland has pledged a substantial portion of its assets to the lenders under its credit facilities. If an event of default occurs under the senior unsecured notes, the Trustee under the notes or holders of at least 25% of the outstanding aggregate principal amount of notes may declare the principal of the notes and any accrued interest immediately payable, which, in turn, could cause the default and acceleration of the maturity of certain of Ashland’s other indebtedness. 9 Ashland’s pension and post-retirement benefit plan obligations are currently underfunded, and Ashland may have to make significant cash payments to some or all of these plans, which would reduce the cash available for Ashland’s businesses. Ashland has unfunded obligations under its domestic and foreign pension and post-retirement benefit plans. The funded status of Ashland’s pension plans is dependent upon many factors, including returns on invested assets, the level of certain market interest rates and the discount rate used to determine pension obligations. Unfavorable returns on the plan assets or unfavorable changes in applicable laws or regulations could materially change the timing and amount of required plan funding, which would reduce the cash available for Ashland’s businesses. In addition, a decrease in the discount rate used to determine pension obligations could result in an increase in the valuation of pension obligations, which could affect the reported funding status of Ashland’s pension plans and future contributions, as well as the periodic pension cost in subsequent fiscal years. Under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or ERISA, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, or PBGC, has the authority to terminate an underfunded tax-qualified pension plan under limited circumstances. In the event Ashland’s tax-qualified pension plans are terminated by the PBGC, Ashland could be liable to the PBGC for some portion of the underfunded amount and, under certain circumstances, the liability could be senior to Ashland’s senior unsecured notes. Ashland is responsible for, and has financial exposure to, liabilities from pending and threatened claims, including those alleging personal injury caused by exposure to asbestos, which reduce Ashland’s cash flows and could reduce profitability. There are various claims, lawsuits and administrative proceedings pending or threatened, including those alleging personal injury caused by exposure to asbestos, against Ashland and its current and former subsidiaries. Such actions are with respect to commercial matters, product liability, toxic tort liability and other matters which seek remedies or damages, some of which are for substantial amounts. While these actions are being contested, their outcome is not predictable. Ashland’s businesses could be materially and adversely affected by financial exposure to these liabilities. Ashland’s implementation of its SAP® enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) project in the business units acquired as part of the Hercules Transaction has the potential for business interruption and associated adverse impact on operating results as well as internal controls. Ashland is proceeding with a project to implement its ERP system within the business units acquired as part of the Hercules Transaction during fiscal 2010. Extensive planning is underway to support the effective implementation of the ERP system in those business units; however, such implementations carry certain risks, including potential for business interruption with the associated adverse impact on operating income. In addition, internal controls that are modified or redesigned to support the ERP system implemented in those business units may result in deficiencies in the future that could constitute significant deficiencies, or in the aggregate, a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting. Ashland’s success depends upon its ability to attract and retain key employees and the succession of senior management. Ashland’s success depends on its ability to attract and retain key personnel, and Ashland relies heavily on its management team. The inability to recruit and retain key personnel or the unexpected loss of key personnel may adversely affect Ashland’s operations. Retention of senior personnel and appropriate succession planning will continue to be critical to the successful implementation of Ashland’s strategies. Ashland has incurred, and may continue to incur, substantial operating costs and capital expenditures as a result of environmental, health and safety liabilities and requirements, which could reduce Ashland’s profitability. Ashland is subject to various U.S. and foreign laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and worker health and safety. These laws and regulations regulate discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and the cleanup of contaminated properties. The costs of complying with these laws and regulations can be substantial and may increase as applicable requirements and their enforcement become more stringent and new rules are implemented. If Ashland violates the requirements of these laws and regulations, it may be forced to pay substantial fines, to complete additional costly projects or to modify or curtail its operations to limit contaminant emissions. Ashland has financial exposure to substantially all of Ashland’s environmental and other liabilities and substantially all of the environmental and other liabilities of its subsidiaries including Hercules and its former subsidiaries. Ashland has investigated and remediated a number of its current and former properties. Engineering studies, historical experience and other factors are used to identify and evaluate remediation alternatives and their related costs in determining the estimated reserves for environmental remediation. Environmental remediation reserves are subject to numerous inherent uncertainties 10 that affect Ashland’s ability to estimate its share of the applicable costs. Such uncertainties involve the nature and extent of contamination at each site, the extent of required cleanup efforts under existing environmental regulations, widely varying costs of alternate cleanup methods, changes in environmental regulations, the potential effect of continuing improvements in remediation technology and the number and financial strength of other potentially responsible parties at multiparty sites. As a result, Ashland’s ultimate costs could exceed its reserves. Ashland’s facilities are subject to operating hazards, which may disrupt its business. Ashland is dependent upon the continued safe operation of its production, storage and distribution facilities. Ashland’s facilities are subject to hazards associated with the manufacture, handling, storage and transportation of chemical materials and products, including leaks and ruptures, explosions, fires, inclement weather and natural disasters, unexpected utility disruptions or outages, unscheduled downtime and environmental hazards. Ashland may have incidents that may temporarily shut down or otherwise disrupt its facilities, causing production delays and resulting in liability for workplace injuries and fatalities. Ashland cannot assure that it will not experience these types of incidents in the future or that these incidents will not result in production delays or otherwise have a material adverse effect on Ashland’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Ashland’s business could be adversely affected by the occurrence of a catastrophe, including a natural or man-made disaster. The occurrence of any pandemic disease, natural disaster or terrorist attacks or any catastrophic event that results in Ashland’s workforce being unable to be physically located at one of its facilities could result in lengthy disruption of Ashland’s business operations. In addition, any of these events could have severe negative effects on the global economic environment. Provisions of Ashland’s articles of incorporation and by-laws and Kentucky law could deter takeover attempts and adversely affect Ashland’s stock price. Provisions of Ashland’s articles of incorporation and by-laws could make acquiring control of Ashland without the support of its Board of Directors difficult for a third party, even if the change of control might be beneficial to Ashland shareholders. Ashland’s articles of incorporation and by-laws contain: § provisions relating to the classification, nomination and removal of its directors; § provisions limiting the right of shareholders to call special meetings of its Board of Directors and shareholders; § provisions regulating the ability of its shareholders to bring matters for action at annual meetings of its shareholders; and § an authorization to its Board of Directors to issue and set the terms of preferred stock. Ashland’s articles of incorporation and the laws of Kentucky impose some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between Ashland and any beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of its outstanding common stock. The existence of these provisions may deprive shareholders of any opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over the prevailing market price for Ashland Common Stock. The potential inability of Ashland shareholders to obtain a control premium could adversely affect the market price for Ashland Common Stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 