Item 1A. Risk Factors Many factors could have an effect on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We are subject to various risks resulting from changing economic, environmental, political, industry, business and financial conditions. The factors described below represent our principal risks. Risks Related to Our Business We are an international company and are exposed to general economic, political and regulatory conditions and risks in the countries in which we have significant operations. We operate in the global market and have customers in many countries. We have major facilities located in North America, Europe and Asia, hold interests in ventures that operate in Germany, China, Japan, South Korea and Saudi Arabia. Our principal customers are similarly global in scope, and the prices of our most significant products are typically world market prices. Consequently, our business and financial results are affected directly and indirectly by world economic, political and regulatory conditions. Conditions such as the uncertainties associated with war, terrorist activities, epidemics, pandemics or political instability in any of the countries in which we operate could affect us by causing delays or losses in the supply or delivery of raw materials and products as well as increasing security costs, insurance premiums and other expenses. These conditions could also result in or lengthen economic recession in the United States, Europe, Asia or elsewhere. Moreover, changes in laws or regulations, such as unexpected changes in regulatory requirements (including import or export licensing requirements), or changes in the reporting requirements of the United States, German or European Union governmental agencies, could increase the cost of doing business in these regions. Any of these conditions may have an effect on our business and financial results as a whole and may result in volatile current and future prices for our securities, including our stock. The industries of many of our customers, particularly the automotive, electrical, construction and textile industries are cyclical in nature and sensitive to changes in economic conditions. A downturn in one or more of these industries may result in a reduction in our operating margins or in operating losses. Some of the markets in which our customers participate, such as the automotive, electrical, construction and textile industries, are cyclical in nature, thus posing a risk to us which is beyond our control. These markets are 20 Table of Contents highly competitive, to a large extent driven by end-use markets, and may experience overcapacity, all of which may affect demand for and pricing of our products. We are subject to risks associated with the increased volatility in the prices and availability of key raw materials and energy. We purchase significant amounts of natural gas, ethylene, butane, methanol and propylene from third parties for use in our production of basic chemicals in the Chemical Products segment, principally formaldehyde, acetic acid and VAM. We use a portion of our output of these chemicals, in turn, as inputs in the production of further products in all our segments. We also purchase significant amounts of cellulose or wood pulp for use in our production of cellulose acetate in the Acetate Products segment. We purchase significant amounts of natural gas, electricity, coal and fuel oil to supply the energy required in our production processes. Prices of natural gas, oil and other hydrocarbons and energy increased dramatically in 2006 and 2005. We own or lease supplies of various precious metals, such as rhodium, used as catalysts for the production of these chemicals. With growing demand for these precious metals, most notably in the automotive industry, the cost to purchase or lease these precious metals has increased, caused by a shortage in supply. We are exposed to any volatility in the prices of our raw materials and energy. Although we have agreements providing for the supply of natural gas, ethylene, propylene, wood pulp, electricity, coal and fuel oil, the contractual prices for these raw materials and energy vary with market conditions and may be highly volatile. Factors which have caused volatility in our raw material prices in the past and which may do so in the future include: • Shortages of raw materials due to increasing demand, e.g., from growing uses or new uses; • Capacity constraints, e.g., due to construction delays, strike action or involuntary shutdowns; • The general level of business and economic activity; and • The direct or indirect effect of governmental regulation. If we are not able to fully offset the effects of higher energy and raw material costs, or if such commodities were unavailable, it could have a significant adverse effect on our financial results. Failure to develop new products and production technologies or to implement productivity and cost reduction initiatives successfully may harm our competitive position. Our operating results, especially in our Performance Products and Ticona segments, depend significantly on the development of commercially viable new products, product grades and applications, as well as production technologies. If we are unsuccessful in developing new products, applications and production processes in the future, our competitive position and operating results may be negatively affected. Likewise, we have undertaken and are continuing to undertake initiatives in all segments to improve productivity and performance and to generate cost savings. These initiatives may not be completed or beneficial or the estimated cost savings from such activities may not be realized. Environmental regulations and other obligations relating to environmental matters could subject us to liability for fines, clean-ups and other damages, require us to incur significant costs to modify our operations and increase our manufacturing and delivery costs. Costs related to our compliance with environmental laws and regulations, and potential obligations with respect to contaminated sites may have a significant negative impact on our operating results. These include obligations related to sites currently or formerly owned or operated by us, or where waste from our operations was disposed. We also have obligations related to the indemnity agreement contained in the demerger and transfer agreement between CAG and Hoechst, also referred to as the demerger agreement, for environmental matters arising out of certain divestitures that took place prior to the demerger. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates — Environmental Liabilities” and Notes 18 and 25 to the consolidated financial statements. 21 Table of Contents Our operations are subject to extensive international, national, state, local, and other supranational laws and regulations that govern environmental and health and safety matters. We incur substantial capital and other costs to comply with these requirements. If we violate them, we can be held liable for substantial fines and other sanctions, including limitations on our operations as a result of changes to or revocations of environmental permits involved. Stricter environmental, safety and health laws, regulations and enforcement policies could result in substantial costs and liabilities to us or limitations on our operations and could subject our handling, manufacture, use, reuse or disposal of substances or pollutants to more rigorous scrutiny than at present. Consequently, compliance with these laws and regulations could result in significant capital expenditures as well as other costs and liabilities, which could cause our business and operating results to be less favorable than expected. We are also involved in several claims, lawsuits and administrative proceedings relating to environmental matters. An adverse outcome in any of them may negatively affect our earnings and cash flows in a particular reporting period. Changes in environmental, health and safety regulatory requirements could lead to a decrease in demand for our products. New or revised governmental regulations relating to health, safety and the environment may also affect demand for our products. Pursuant to the European Union regulation on Risk Assessment of Existing Chemicals, the European Chemicals Bureau of the European Commission has been conducting risk assessments on approximately 140 major chemicals. Some of the chemicals initially being evaluated include VAM, which we produce. These risk assessments entail a multi-stage process to determine to what extent the European Commission should classify the chemical as a carcinogen and, if so, whether this classification and related labeling requirements should apply only to finished products that contain specified threshold concentrations of a particular chemical. In the case of VAM, we currently do not expect a final ruling until the end of 2007. We and other VAM producers are participating in this process with detailed scientific analyses supporting the industry’s position that VAM is not a probable human carcinogen and that labeling of final products should not be required. We cannot predict the outcome or effect of any final ruling. Several recent studies have investigated possible links between formaldehyde exposure and various end points including leukemia. The International Agency for Research on Cancer or IARC recently reclassified formaldehyde from Group 2A (probable human carcinogen) to Group 1 (known human carcinogen) based on studies linking formaldehyde exposure to nasopharyngeal cancer, a rare cancer in humans. IARC also concluded that there is insufficient evidence for a causal association between leukemia and occupational exposure to formaldehyde, although it also characterized evidence for such an association as strong. The results of IARC’s review will be examined by government agencies with responsibility for setting worker and environmental exposure standards and labeling requirements. We are a producer of formaldehyde and plastics derived from formaldehyde. We are participating together with other producers and users in the evaluations of these findings. We cannot predict the final effect of IARC’s reclassification. Other recent initiatives will potentially require toxicological testing and risk assessments of a wide variety of chemicals, including chemicals used or produced by us. These initiatives include the Voluntary Children’s Chemical Evaluation Program and High Production Volume Chemical Initiative in the United States, as well as various European Commission programs, such as the new European Environment and Health Strategy, commonly known as SCALE, as well as the Proposal for the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals or REACH. REACH, which the European Commission proposed in October 2003, will establish a system to register and evaluate chemicals manufactured in, or imported to, the European Union. Additional testing, documentation and risk assessments will occur for the chemical industry. This will affect European producers of chemicals as well as all chemical companies worldwide that export to member states of the European Union. The above-mentioned assessments in the United States and Europe may result in heightened concerns about the chemicals involved and additional requirements being placed on the production, handling, labeling or use of the subject chemicals. Such concerns and additional requirements could increase the cost incurred by our customers to 22 Table of Contents use our chemical products and otherwise limit the use of these products, which could lead to a decrease in demand for these products. Such a decrease in demand would likely have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Our production facilities handle the processing of some volatile and hazardous materials that subject us to operating risks that could have a negative effect on our operating results. Our operations are subject to operating risks associated with chemical manufacturing, including the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products and waste. These risks include, among other things pipeline and storage tank leaks and ruptures, explosions and fires and discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances. These operating risks can cause personal injury, property damage and environmental contamination, and may result in the shutdown of affected facilities and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. The occurrence of any of these events may disrupt production and have a negative effect on the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility and our operating results and cash flows. Recently proposed federal legislation aimed at increasing security at certain chemical production plants and similar legislation that may be proposed in the future could, if passed into law, require us to relocate certain manufacturing activities and require us to alter or discontinue our production of certain chemical products, thereby increasing our operating costs and causing an adverse effect on our results of operations. Legislation is currently pending in Congress which is aimed at decreasing the risk, and effects, of potential terrorist attacks on chemical plants located within the United States. Pursuant to proposed legislation, these goals would be accomplished in part through the requirement that certain high-priority facilities develop a prevention, preparedness, and response plan after conducting a vulnerability assessment. In addition, companies may be required to evaluate the possibility of using less dangerous chemicals and technologies as part of their vulnerability assessments and prevention plans and implementing feasible safer technologies in order to minimize potential damage to their facilities from a terrorist attack. Pending legislation will likely be revised further, and additional legislation may be proposed in the future on this topic. It is possible that such future legislation could contain terms that are more restrictive than what has recently been proposed and which would be more costly to us. We cannot predict the final form of currently pending legislation, or other related legislation that may be passed and can provide no assurance that such legislation will not have an adverse effect on our results of operations in a future reporting period. Our significant non-U.S. operations expose us to global exchange rate fluctuations that could adversely impact our profitability. We are exposed to market risk through commercial and financial operations. Our market risk consists principally of exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange and interest rates. As we conduct a significant portion of our operations outside the United States, fluctuations in currencies of other countries, especially the euro, may materially affect our operating results. For example, changes in currency exchange rates may decrease our profits in comparison to the profits of our competitors on the same products sold in the same markets and increase the cost of items required in our operations. A substantial portion of our net sales is denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In our consolidated financial statements, we translate our local currency financial results into U.S. dollars based on average exchange rates prevailing during a reporting period or the exchange rate at the end of that period. During times of a strengthening U.S. dollar, at a constant level of business, our reported international sales, earnings, assets and liabilities will be reduced because the local currency will translate into fewer U.S. dollars. In addition to currency translation risks, we incur a currency transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a currency different from the operating subsidiary’s functional currency. Given the volatility of exchange rates, we may not be able to manage our currency transaction and translation risks effectively, and volatility in currency exchange rates may expose our financial 23 Table of Contents condition or results of operations to a significant additional risk. Since a portion of our indebtedness is and will be denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, a weakening of the U.S. dollar could make it more difficult for us to repay our indebtedness. We use financial instruments to hedge our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations, but we cannot guarantee that our hedging strategies will be effective. Failure to effectively manage these risks could have an adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows Significant changes in pension fund investment performance or assumptions relating to pension costs may have a material effect on the valuation of pension obligations, the funded status of pension plans, and our pension cost. Our funding policy for pension plans is to accumulate plan assets that, over the long run, will approximate the present value of projected benefit obligations. Our pension cost is materially affected by the discount rate used to measure pension obligations, the level of plan assets available to fund those obligations at the measurement date and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. Significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets can result in corresponding increases and decreases in the valuation of plan assets, particularly equity securities, or in a change of the expected rate of return on plan assets. A change in the discount rate would result in a significant increase or decrease in the valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported funded status of our pension plans as well as the net periodic pension cost in the following fiscal years. Similarly, changes in the expected return on plan assets can result in significant changes in the net periodic pension cost for subsequent fiscal years. CAG may be required to make payments to Hoechst. Under its 1999 demerger agreement with Hoechst, CAG agreed to indemnify Hoechst for environmental liabilities that Hoechst may incur with respect to CAG’s German production sites, which were transferred from Hoechst to CAG in connection with the demerger. CAG also has an obligation to indemnify Hoechst against liabilities for environmental damages or contamination arising under certain divestiture agreements entered into by Hoechst prior to the demerger. As the indemnification obligations depend on the occurrence of unpredictable future events, the costs associated with them are not yet determinable and may materially affect operating results. CAG’s obligation to indemnify Hoechst against liabilities for environmental contamination in connection with the divestiture agreements is subject to the following thresholds: • CAG will indemnify Hoechst for the total amount of these liabilities up to €250 million; • Hoechst will bear the full amount of those liabilities between €250 million and €750 million; and • CAG will indemnify Hoechst for one third of those liabilities for amounts exceeding €750 million. CAG has made total cumulative payments through December 31, 2006 of $44 million for environmental contamination liabilities in connection with the divestiture agreements, and may be required to make additional payments in the future. As of December 31, 2006, we have reserves of approximately $33 million for this contingency, and may be required to record additional reserves in the future. Also, CAG has undertaken in the demerger agreement to indemnify Hoechst to the extent that Hoechst is required to discharge liabilities, including tax liabilities, in relation to assets included in the demerger, where such liabilities have not been demerged due to transfer or other restrictions. CAG did not make any payments to Hoechst during the year ended December 31, 2006, 2005 or 2004 in connection with this indemnity. Under the demerger agreement, CAG will also be responsible, directly or indirectly, for all of Hoechst’s obligations to past employees of businesses that were demerged to CAG. Under the demerger agreement, Hoechst agreed to indemnify CAG from liabilities (other than liabilities for environmental contamination) stemming from the agreements governing the divestiture of Hoechst’s polyester businesses, which were demerged to CAG, insofar as such liabilities relate to the European part of that business. Hoechst has also agreed to bear 80% of the financial 24 Table of Contents obligations arising in connection with the government investigation and litigation associated with the sorbates industry for price fixing described in Note 25 to the consolidated financial statements, and CAG has agreed to bear the remaining 20%. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly and affect our operating results. Certain of our borrowings, primarily borrowings under the amended and restated senior credit facilities, are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates were to increase, our debt service obligations on our variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately $1.9 billion of variable rate debt, of which $0.3 billion is hedged with an interest rate swap, which leaves us approximately $1.6 billion of variable rate debt subject to interest rate exposure. Accordingly, a 1% increase in interest rates would increase annual interest expense by approximately $16 million. There can be no assurance that interest rates will not rise significantly in the future. Such an increase could have an adverse impact on our future results of operations and cash flows. The disposition by the Original Shareholders of at least 90% of their equity interest will satisfy a vesting condition under our deferred compensation plan. In December 2004, we approved, among other incentive and retention programs, a deferred compensation plan for executive officers and key employees. The programs were intended to align management performance with the creation of shareholder value. The deferred compensation plan has an aggregate maximum amount payable of $196 million over five years ending in 2009. The initial component of the deferred compensation plan vested in 2004 and was paid in the first quarter of 2005. The remaining aggregate maximum amount payable of $142 million is subject to downward adjustment if the price of our Series A common stock falls below the initial public offering price of $16 per share and vests subject to both (i) continued employment or the achievement of certain performance criteria and (2) the disposition by three of the four Original Shareholders of at least 90% of their equity interest in the Company with at least a 25% cash internal rate of return on their equity interest. The Original Shareholders have an equity interest of approximately 14.09%. Upon the occurrence of a qualifying sale, as defined, the amount vested and payable under the plan as of December 31, 2006 would be approximately $75 million, exclusive of $19 million accrued in 2006 and payable in 2007 due to the accelerated vesting of certain plan participants. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. Our inability to enforce these rights could reduce our ability to maintain our market position and our profit margins. We attach great importance to patents, trademarks, copyrights and product designs in order to protect our investment in research and development, manufacturing and marketing. Our policy is to seek the widest possible protection for significant product and process developments in our major markets. Patents may cover products, processes, intermediate products and product uses. Protection for individual products extends for varying periods in accordance with the date of patent application filing and the legal life of patents in the various countries. The protection afforded, which may also vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent and its scope of coverage. As patents expire, the products and processes described and claimed in those patents become generally available for use by the public. Our continued growth strategy may bring us to regions of the world where intellectual property protection may be limited and difficult to enforce. We also seek to register trademarks extensively as a means of protecting the brand names of our products, which brand names become more important once the corresponding patents have expired. If we are not successful in protecting our trademark or patent rights, our revenues, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected. 25 Table of Contents Provisions in our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as well as any shareholders’ rights plan, may discourage a takeover attempt. Provisions contained in our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our shareholders. Provisions of our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws impose various procedural and other requirements, which could make it more difficult for shareholders to effect certain corporate actions. For example, our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of unissued series of preferred stock, without any vote or action by our shareholders. Thus, our board of directors can authorize and issue shares of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting or other rights of holders of our Series A common stock. These rights may have the effect of delaying or deterring a change of control of our company. In addition, a change of control of our company may be delayed or deterred as a result of our having three classes of directors (each class elected for a three year term) or as a result of any shareholders’ rights plan that our board of directors may adopt. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our Series A common stock. Risks Related to the Acquisition of CAG The amounts of the fair cash compensation and of the guaranteed annual payment offered under the domination and profit and loss transfer agreement (“Domination Agreement”) may be increased, which may further reduce the funds the Purchaser can otherwise make available to us. Several minority shareholders of CAG have initiated special award proceedings seeking the court’s review of the amounts of the fair cash compensation and of the guaranteed annual payment offered under the Domination Agreement. On March 14, 2005, the Frankfurt District Court dismissed on grounds of inadmissibility the motions of all minority shareholders regarding the initiation of these special award proceedings. In January 2006, the Frankfurt Higher District Court ruled that the appeals were admissible, and the proceedings will therefore continue. On December 12, 2006, the Frankfurt District Court appointed an expert to help determine the value of CAG. As a result of these proceedings, the amounts of the fair cash compensation and of the guaranteed annual payment could be increased by the court, and the Purchaser would be required to make such payments within two months after the publication of the court’s ruling. Any such increase may be substantial. All minority shareholders including those who have already received the fair cash compensation would be entitled to claim the respective higher amounts. This may reduce the funds the Purchaser can make available to us and, accordingly, diminish our ability to make payments on our indebtedness. See Notes 2 and 25 to our consolidated financial statements for further information. The Purchaser may be required to compensate CAG for annual losses, which may reduce the funds the Purchaser can otherwise make available to us. Under the Domination Agreement, the Purchaser is required, among other things, to compensate CAG for any annual loss incurred, determined in accordance with German accounting requirements, by CAG at the end of the fiscal year in which the loss was incurred. This obligation to compensate CAG for annual losses will apply during the entire term of the Domination Agreement. If CAG incurs losses during any period of the operative term of the Domination Agreement and if such losses lead to an annual loss of CAG at the end of any given fiscal year during the term of the Domination Agreement, the Purchaser will be obligated to make a corresponding cash payment to CAG to the extent that the respective annual loss is not fully compensated for by the dissolution of profit reserves accrued at the level of CAG during the term of the Domination Agreement. The Purchaser may be able to reduce or avoid cash payments to CAG by off-setting against such loss compensation claims by CAG any valuable counterclaims against CAG that the Purchaser may have. If the Purchaser is obligated to make cash payments to CAG to cover an annual loss, we may not have sufficient funds to make payments on our indebtedness when due and, unless the Purchaser is able to obtain funds from a source other than annual profits of CAG, the Purchaser may not be able to satisfy its obligation to fund such shortfall. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. 26 Table of Contents We and two of our subsidiaries have taken on certain obligations with respect to the Purchaser’s obligation under the Domination Agreement and intercompany indebtedness to CAG, which may diminish our ability to make payments on our indebtedness. Our subsidiaries, Celanese Caylux and BCP Crystal, have each agreed to provide the Purchaser with financing so that the Purchaser is at all times in a position to completely meet its obligations under, or in connection with, the Domination Agreement. In addition, Celanese has guaranteed (i) that the Purchaser will meet its obligation under the Domination Agreement to compensate CAG for any annual loss incurred by CAG during the term of the Domination Agreement; and (ii) the repayment of all existing intercompany indebtedness of Celanese’s subsidiaries to CAG. Further, under the terms of Celanese’s guarantee, in certain limited circumstances CAG may be entitled to require the immediate repayment of some or all of the intercompany indebtedness owed by Celanese’s subsidiaries to CAG. If Celanese, Celanese Caylux and/or BCP Crystal are obligated to make payments under their obligations to the Purchaser or CAG, as the case may be, or if the intercompany indebtedness owed to CAG is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds for payments on our indebtedness when due or other expenditures. The price paid by the Purchaser for the acquisition of the remaining outstanding CAG shares may be challenged in court. The price could increase if the amount of fair cash compensation is successfully challenged in court. See Note 25 to our consolidated financial statements for further information. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Our high level of indebtedness could diminish our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or the chemicals industry and prevent us from meeting obligations under our indebtedness. We are highly leveraged. Our total indebtedness is approximately $3.5 billion as of December 31, 2006 (excluding $134 million of future accretion on the senior discount notes). Our substantial debt could have important consequences, including: • making it more difficult for us to make payments on our debt; • increasing vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; • requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings, primarily the borrowings under the amended and restated senior credit facilities, are at variable rates of interest; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and • limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt. Despite our current high leverage, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks of our high leverage. We may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of our existing debt do not fully prohibit us from doing so. If new debt, including amounts available under our amended and restated senior credit facilities, is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Liquidity — Contractual Obligations.” 27 Table of Contents We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our indebtedness, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to satisfy our cash needs depends on cash on hand, receipt of additional capital, including possible additional borrowings, and receipt of cash from our subsidiaries by way of distributions, advances or cash payments. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Liquidity — Contractual Obligations.” Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on the financial condition and operating performance of our subsidiaries, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. The amended and restated senior credit facilities and the indentures governing our indebtedness restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from the disposition. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds which we could realize from them and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. Restrictive covenants in our debt instruments may limit our ability to engage in certain transactions and may diminish our ability to make payments on our indebtedness. The amended and restated senior credit facilities and the indentures governing our indebtedness contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. The covenants contained in the indentures limit the ability of Crystal LLC, BCP Crystal and their restricted subsidiaries to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock, pay dividends on or make other distributions on or repurchase their capital stock or make other restricted payments, make investments, and sell certain assets. In addition, the amended and restated senior credit facilities contain covenants that require Celanese Holdings to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests. Celanese Holdings’ ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond its control, and it may not be able to meet those tests at all. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the amended and restated senior credit facilities. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the amended and restated senior credit facilities, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the amended and restated senior credit facilities to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If Celanese Holdings were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under the amended and restated senior credit facilities could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. Our subsidiaries have pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under the amended and restated senior credit facilities. If the lenders under the amended and restated senior credit facilities accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we may not have sufficient assets to repay amounts borrowed under the amended and restated senior credit facilities as well as their other indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on the value of our stock. The terms of our amended and restated senior credit facilities limit the ability of BCP Crystal and its subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise transfer their assets to us. Our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries and our ability to pay dividends is dependent on the earnings and the distribution of funds from our subsidiaries. However, the terms of our amended and restated senior credit facilities limit the ability of BCP Crystal and its subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise transfer their assets to us. Accordingly, our ability to pay dividends on our stock is similarly limited. 28 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 