Risk Factors Many factors could have an effect on Celanese’s financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We are subject to various risks resulting from changing economic, environmental, political, industry, business and financial conditions. The principal factors are described below. Risks Related to Our Business We are an international company and are exposed to general economic, political and regulatory conditions and risks in the countries in which we have significant operations. We operate in the global market and have customers in many countries. We have major facilities located in North America, Europe and Asia, including facilities in Germany, China, Japan, Korea and Saudi Arabia operated through ventures. Our principal customers are similarly global in scope, and the prices of our most significant products are typically world market prices. Consequently, our business and financial results are affected directly and indirectly by world economic, political and regulatory conditions. Conditions such as the uncertainties associated with war, terrorist activities, epidemics, pandemics or political instability in any of the countries in which we operate could affect us by causing delays or losses in the supply or delivery of raw materials and products as well as increased security costs, insurance premiums and other expenses. These conditions could also result in or lengthen economic recession in the United States, Europe, Asia or elsewhere. Moreover, changes in laws or regulations, such as unexpected changes in regulatory requirements (including import or export licensing requirements), or changes in the reporting requirements of United States, German or European Union governmental agencies, could increase the cost of doing business in these regions. Any of these conditions may have an effect on our business and financial results as a whole and may result in volatile current and future prices for our securities, including our stock. From time to time, certain of our foreign subsidiaries have made sales of acetate, sweeteners and polymer products to customers in countries that are or have previously been subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the U.S. government. These countries include Cuba, Iran, Sudan and Syria, four countries currently identified by the U.S. State Department as terrorist-sponsoring states and other countries that previously have been identified by the U.S. State Department as terrorist-sponsoring states, or countries to which sales have been regulated in connection with other foreign policy concerns. In September 2005, we began an investigation of these transactions and initially identified approximately $10 million of sales by our foreign subsidiaries that may be in violation of regulations of the United States Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC, or the United States Department of Commerce's Bureau of Industry and Security. We now believe that approximately $5 million of these sales may actually be violations of U.S. law or regulation. The potential violations uncovered by the investigation include approximately $180,000 of sales of emulsions to Cuba by two of our foreign subsidiaries. Sales to Cuba are violations of OFAC regulations. In addition, we have recently discovered that our sales office in Turkey sold polymer products to companies in Iran and Syria, including indirectly selling product through other companies located in non-embargoed locations. These transactions may have involved an intentional violation of our policies and federal regulations by employees of our office in Turkey. Our investigation of potentially prohibited sales is ongoing and we can not yet be certain of the number of these transactions, the sales amounts or the identity of every individual who may have been involved. However, sales from our office in Turkey to all customers are approximately $12 million annually. We have voluntarily disclosed these matters to the U.S. Treasury Department and the U.S. Department of Commerce, and we are currently engaged in discussions with them. We have also taken corrective actions, including directives to senior business leaders prohibiting such sales, as well as modifications to our accounting systems that are intended to prevent the initiation of sales to countries that are subject to the U.S. Treasury Department or the U.S. Department of Commerce restrictions. If violations of the U.S. export control laws are found we could be subject to civil penalties of up to $50,000 per violation, and criminal penalties could range up to the greater of $1 million per violation, or five times the value of the goods sold. If such violations occurred, the United States Government could 27 deny us export privileges. The ultimate resolution of this matter is subject to completion of our investigation and a final ruling or settlement with the government. Accordingly, we cannot estimate the potential sanctions or fines relating to this matter. There can be no assurance that any governmental investigation or our own investigation of these matters will not conclude that violations of applicable laws have occurred or that the results of these investigations will not have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Cyclicality in the industrial chemicals industry has in the past and may in the future result in reduced operating margins or in operating losses. Consumption of the basic chemicals that we manufacture, in particular those in acetyl products, such as methanol, formaldehyde, acetic acid and vinyl acetate monomer, has increased significantly over the past 30 years. Despite this growth in consumption, producers have experienced alternating periods of inadequate capacity and excess capacity for these products. Periods of inadequate capacity, including some due to raw material shortages, have usually resulted in increased selling prices and operating margins. This has often been followed by periods of capacity additions, which have resulted in declining capacity utilization rates, selling prices and operating margins. We expect that these cyclical trends in selling prices and operating margins relating to capacity shortfalls and additions will likely persist in the future, principally due to the continuing combined impact of five factors: • Significant capacity additions, whether through plant expansion or construction, can take two to three years to come on stream and are therefore necessarily based upon estimates of future demand. • When demand is rising, competition to build new capacity may be heightened because new capacity tends to be more profitable, with a lower marginal cost of production. This tends to amplify upswings in capacity. • When demand is falling, the high fixed cost structure of the capital-intensive chemicals industry leads producers to compete aggressively on price in order to maximize capacity utilization. • As competition in these products is focused on price, being a low-cost producer is critical to profitability. This favors the construction of larger plants, which maximize economies of scale, but which also lead to major increases in capacity that can outstrip current growth in demand. • Cyclical trends in general business and economic activity produce swings in demand for chemicals. The length and depth of product and industry business cycles of our markets, particularly in the automotive, electrical, construction and textile industries, may result in reduced operating margins or in operating losses. Some of the markets in which our customers participate, such as the automotive, electrical, construction and textile industries, are cyclical in nature, thus posing a risk to us which is beyond our control. These markets are highly competitive, to a large extent driven by end-use markets, and may experience overcapacity, all of which may affect demand for and pricing of our products. We are subject to risks associated with the increased volatility in raw materials prices and the availability of key raw materials. We purchase significant amounts of natural gas, ethylene, butane, methanol and propylene from third parties for use in our production of basic chemicals in the Chemical Products segment, principally formaldehyde, acetic acid, vinyl acetate monomer, as well as oxo products. We use a portion of our output of these chemicals, in turn, as inputs in the production of further products in all our segments. We also purchase significant amounts of cellulose or wood pulp for use in our production of cellulose acetate in the Acetate Products segment. We purchase significant amounts of natural gas, electricity, coal and fuel oil to supply the energy required in our production processes. 28 We also lease supplies of various precious metals, such as rhodium, used as catalysts for the production of these chemicals. With growing demand for these precious metals, most notably in the automotive industry, the cost to purchase or lease these precious metals has increased, caused by a shortage in supply. These circumstances are expected to continue into the second half of 2006. Prices of natural gas, oil and other hydrocarbons and energy increased dramatically in 2005 and 2004. To the extent this trend continues and we are unable to pass through these price increases to our customers, our operating profit and results of operations may be less favorable than expected. We are exposed to any volatility in the prices of our raw materials and energy. Although we have agreements providing for the supply of natural gas, ethylene, propylene, wood pulp, electricity, coal and fuel oil, the contractual prices for these raw materials and energy vary with market conditions and may be highly volatile. Factors which have caused volatility in our raw material prices in the past and which may do so in the future include: • Shortages of raw materials due to increasing demand, e.g., from growing uses or new uses; • Capacity constraints, e.g., due to construction delays, strike action or involuntary shutdowns; • The general level of business and economic activity; and • The direct or indirect effect of governmental regulation. We strive to improve profit margins of many of our products through price increases when warranted and accepted by the market; however, our operating margins may decrease if we cannot pass on increased raw material prices to customers. Even in periods during which raw material prices decline, we may suffer decreasing operating profit margins if raw material price reductions occur at a slower rate than decreases in the selling prices of our products. A substantial portion of our products and raw materials are commodities whose prices fluctuate as market supply/demand fundamentals change. We manage our exposure through the use of derivative instruments and forward purchase contracts for commodity price hedging, entering into long-term supply agreements, and multi-year purchasing and sales agreements. Our policy, for the majority of our natural gas and butane requirements, allows entering into supply agreements and forward purchase or cash-settled swap contracts. As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, there were no derivative contracts of this type outstanding. In 2003, there were forward contracts covering approximately 35% of our Chemical Products North American requirements. We regularly assess our practice of purchasing a portion of our commodity requirements forward, and the utilization of a variety of other raw material hedging instruments, in addition to forward purchase contracts, in accordance with changes in market conditions. We capped our exposure on approximately 20% of our U.S. natural gas requirements during the months of August and September of 2004. The fixed price natural gas forward contracts and any premium associated with the purchase of a price cap are principally settled through actual delivery of the physical commodity. The maturities of the cash-settled swap or cap contracts correlate to the actual purchases of the commodity and have the effect of securing or limiting predetermined prices for the underlying commodity. Although these contracts were structured to limit exposure to increases in commodity prices, certain swaps may also limit the potential benefit we might have otherwise received from decreases in commodity prices. These cash-settled swap or cap contracts were accounted for as cash flow hedges. We have a policy of maintaining, when available, multiple sources of supply for raw materials. However, some of our individual plants may have single sources of supply for some of their raw materials, such as carbon monoxide and acetaldehyde. We may not be able to obtain sufficient raw materials due to unforeseen developments that would cause an interruption in supply. Even if we have multiple sources of supply for a raw material, these sources may not make up for the loss of a major supplier. Nor can there be any guarantee that profitability will not be affected should we be required to qualify additional sources of supply in the event of the loss of a sole or a major supplier. Failure to develop new products and production technologies or to implement productivity and cost reduction initiatives successfully may harm our competitive position. Our operating results, especially in our Performance Products and Ticona segments, depend significantly on the development of commercially viable new products, product grades and applications, 29 as well as production technologies. If we are unsuccessful in developing new products, applications and production processes in the future, our competitive position and operating results will be negatively affected. Likewise, we have undertaken and are continuing to undertake initiatives in all segments to improve productivity and performance and to generate cost savings. These initiatives may not be completed or beneficial or the estimated cost savings from such activities may not be realized. Frankfurt airport expansion could require us to reduce production capacity of, limit expansion potential of, or incur relocation costs for our Kelsterbach plant which would lead to significant additional costs. The Frankfurt airport’s expansion plans include the construction of an additional runway (the northwest option), which would be located in close proximity to our Kelsterbach production plant. The construction of this particular runway could have a negative effect on the plant’s current production capacity and future development. While the government of the state of Hesse and the owner of the Frankfurt airport promote the expansion of the northwest option, it is uncertain whether this option is in accordance with applicable laws. Although the government of the state of Hesse expects the plan approval for the airport expansion in 2007 and the start of operations in 2009-2010, neither the final outcome of this matter nor its timing can be predicted at this time. Environmental regulations and other obligations relating to environmental matters could subject us to liability for fines, clean-ups and other damages, require us to incur significant costs to modify our operations and increase our manufacturing and delivery costs. Costs related to our compliance with environmental laws concerning, and potential obligations with respect to, contaminated sites may have a significant negative impact on our operating results. These include obligations related to sites currently or formerly owned or operated by us, or where waste from our operations was disposed. We also have obligations related to the indemnity agreement contained in the demerger and transfer agreement between CAG and Hoechst, also referred to as the demerger agreement, for environmental matters arising out of certain divestitures that took place prior to the demerger. See ‘‘Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates—Environmental Liabilities,’’ Notes 18 and 25 to the consolidated financial statements. Our operations are subject to extensive international, national, state, local, and other supranational laws and regulations that govern environmental and health and safety matters. We incur substantial capital and other costs to comply with these requirements. If we violate them, we can be held liable for substantial fines and other sanctions, including limitations on our operations as a result of changes to or revocations of environmental permits involved. Stricter environmental, safety and health laws, regulations and enforcement policies could result in substantial costs and liabilities to us or limitations on our operations and could subject our handling, manufacture, use, reuse or disposal of substances or pollutants to more rigorous scrutiny than at present. Consequently, compliance with these laws could result in significant capital expenditures as well as other costs and liabilities and our business and operating results may be less favorable than expected. Due to new air regulations in the U.S., management expects that there will be a temporary increase in compliance costs that will total approximately $35 million to $45 million through 2007. For example, the Miscellaneous Organic National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAP) regulations, and various approaches to regulating boilers and incinerators, including the NESHAPs for Industrial/ Commercial/Institutional Boilers and Process Heaters, will impose additional requirements on our operations. Although some of these rules have been finalized, a significant portion of the NESHAPs for Industrial/Commercial/Institutional Boilers and Process Heaters regulation that provides for a low risk alternative method of compliance for hydrogen chloride emissions has been challenged in federal court. We cannot predict the outcome of this challenge, which could, if successful, increase our costs by, according to our estimates, approximately $50 million in addition to the $35 million to $45 million noted above through 2007 to comply with this regulation. We are also involved in several claims, lawsuits and administrative proceedings relating to environmental matters. An adverse outcome in any of them may negatively affect our earnings and cash flows in a particular reporting period. 30 Changes in environmental, health and safety regulatory requirements could lead to a decrease in demand for our products. New or revised governmental regulations relating to health, safety and the environment may also affect demand for our products. Pursuant to the European Union regulation on Risk Assessment of Existing Chemicals, the European Chemicals Bureau of the European Commission has been conducting risk assessments on approximately 140 major chemicals. Some of the chemicals initially being evaluated include VAM, which we produce. These risk assessments entail a multi-stage process to determine to what extent the European Commission should classify the chemical as a carcinogen and, if so, whether this classification and related labeling requirements should apply only to finished products that contain specified threshold concentrations of a particular chemical. In the case of VAM, we currently do not expect a final ruling until the end of 2007. We and other VAM producers are participating in this process with detailed scientific analyses supporting the industry’s position that VAM is not a probable human carcinogen and that labeling of final products should not be required. If labeling is required, then it should depend on relatively high parts per million of residual VAM in these end products. We cannot predict the outcome or effect of any final ruling. Several recent studies have investigated possible links between formaldehyde exposure and various end points including leukemia. The International Agency for Research on Cancer or IARC recently reclassified formaldehyde from Group 2A (probable human carcinogen) to Group 1 (known human carcinogen) based on studies linking formaldehyde exposure to nasopharyngeal cancer, a rare cancer in humans. IARC also concluded that there is insufficient evidence for a causal association between leukemia and occupational exposure to formaldehyde, although it also characterized evidence for such an association as strong. The results of IARC’s review will be examined by government agencies with responsibility for setting worker and environmental exposure standards and labeling requirements. We are a producer of formaldehyde and plastics derived from formaldehyde. We are participating together with other producers and users in the evaluations of these findings. We cannot predict the final effect of IARC’s reclassification. Other recent initiatives will potentially require toxicological testing and risk assessments of a wide variety of chemicals, including chemicals used or produced by us. These initiatives include the Voluntary Children’s Chemical Evaluation Program and High Production Volume Chemical Initiative in the United States, as well as various European Commission programs, such as the new European Environment and Health Strategy, commonly known as SCALE, as well as the Proposal for the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals or REACH. REACH, which the European Commission proposed in October 2003, will establish a system to register and evaluate chemicals manufactured in, or imported to, the European Union. Depending on the final ruling, additional testing, documentation and risk assessments will occur for the chemical industry. This will affect European producers of chemicals as well as all chemical companies worldwide that export to member states of the European Union. The final ruling has not yet been decided. The above-mentioned assessments in the United States and Europe may result in heightened concerns about the chemicals involved and in additional requirements being placed on the production, handling, labeling or use of the subject chemicals. Such concerns and additional requirements could increase the cost incurred by our customers to use our chemical products and otherwise limit the use of these products, which could lead to a decrease in demand for these products. Our production facilities handle the processing of some volatile and hazardous materials that subject us to operating risks that could have a negative effect on our operating results. Our operations are subject to operating risks associated with chemical manufacturing, including the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products and wastes. These hazards include, among other things: • pipeline and storage tank leaks and ruptures; • explosions and fires; and 31 • discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances. These operating risks can cause personal injury, property damage and environmental contamination, and may result in the shutdown of affected facilities and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. The occurrence of any of these events may disrupt production and have a negative effect on the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility and our operating results and cash flows. We maintain property, business interruption and casualty insurance which we believe is in accordance with customary industry practices, but we cannot predict whether this insurance will be adequate to fully cover all potential hazards incidental to our business. We have established two captive insurance subsidiaries (‘‘Captives’’) that provide a portion of the total insurance coverage to us for certain of our lower tier property and casualty risks. They additionally provide coverage to third parties for their higher tier risk programs. If there were concurrent claims made on all policies issued by the Captives, sufficient capital may not be available for them to satisfy all claims against all such policies. Our significant non-U.S. operations expose us to global exchange rate fluctuations that could impact our profitability. We are exposed to market risk through commercial and financial operations. Our market risk consists principally of exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange and interest rates. As we conduct a significant portion of our operations outside the U.S., fluctuations in currencies of other countries, especially the euro, may materially affect our operating results. For example, changes in currency exchange rates may affect: • The relative prices at which we and our competitors sell products in the same market; and • The cost of items required in our operations. We use financial instruments to hedge our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. The net notional amounts under such foreign currency contracts outstanding at December 31, 2005 were $564 million. A substantial portion of our net sales is denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In our consolidated financial statements, we translate our local currency financial results into U.S. dollars based on average exchange rates prevailing during a reporting period or the exchange rate at the end of that period. During times of a strengthening U.S. dollar, at a constant level of business, our reported international sales, earnings, assets and liabilities will be reduced because the local currency will translate into fewer U.S. dollars. In addition to currency translation risks, we incur a currency transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a currency different from the operating subsidiary’s functional currency. Given the volatility of exchange rates, we may not be able to manage our currency transaction and/or translation risks effectively, or volatility in currency exchange rates may expose our financial condition or results of operations to a significant additional risk. Since a portion of our indebtedness is and will be denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, a weakening of the U.S. dollar could make it more difficult for us to repay our indebtedness. Significant changes in pension fund investment performance or assumptions relating to pension costs may have a material effect on the valuation of pension obligations, the funded status of pension plans, and our pension cost. Our funding policy for pension plans is to accumulate plan assets that, over the long run, will approximate the present value of projected benefit obligations. Our pension cost is materially affected by the discount rate used to measure pension obligations, the level of plan assets available to fund those obligations at the measurement date and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. Significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets can result in corresponding increases and decreases in the valuation of plan assets, particularly equity securities, or in a change of the expected rate of return on plan assets. A change in the discount rate would result in a significant increase or decrease in the valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported funded status of our pension plans as well as the net periodic pension cost in the following fiscal years. Similarly, changes in the expected return on plan assets can result in significant changes in the net periodic pension cost for subsequent fiscal years. 32 CAG may be required to make payments to Hoechst. Under its 1999 demerger agreement with Hoechst, CAG agreed to indemnify Hoechst for environmental liabilities that Hoechst may incur with respect to CAG’s German production sites, which were transferred from Hoechst to CAG in connection with the demerger. CAG also has an obligation to indemnify Hoechst against liabilities for environmental damages or contamination arising under certain divestiture agreements entered into by Hoechst prior to the demerger. As the indemnification obligations depend on the occurrence of unpredictable future events, the costs associated with them are not yet determinable and may materially affect operating results. CAG’s obligation to indemnify Hoechst against liabilities for environmental contamination in connection with the divestiture agreements is subject to the following thresholds (translated into U.S. dollars using the December 31, 2005 exchange rate): • CAG will indemnify Hoechst for the total amount of these liabilities up to €250 million (approximately $295 million); • Hoechst will bear the full amount of those liabilities between €250 million (approximately $295 million) and €750 million (approximately $885 million); and • CAG will indemnify Hoechst for one third of those liabilities for amounts exceeding €750 million (approximately $885 million). CAG has made total cumulative payments through December 31, 2005 of $41 million for environmental contamination liabilities in connection with the divestiture agreements, and may be required to make additional payments in the future. As of December 31, 2005, we have reserves of approximately $33 million for this contingency, and may be required to record additional reserves in the future. Also, CAG has undertaken in the demerger agreement to indemnify Hoechst to the extent that Hoechst is required to discharge liabilities, including tax liabilities, in relation to assets included in the demerger, where such liabilities have not been demerged due to transfer or other restrictions. CAG did not make any payments to Hoechst during the year ended December 31, 2005, nor did it make any payments in 2004 or 2003 in connection with this indemnity. Under the demerger agreement, CAG will also be responsible, directly or indirectly, for all of Hoechst’s obligations to past employees of businesses that were demerged to CAG. Under the demerger agreement, Hoechst agreed to indemnify CAG from liabilities (other than liabilities for environmental contamination) stemming from the agreements governing the divestiture of Hoechst’s polyester businesses, which were demerged to CAG, insofar as such liabilities relate to the European part of that business. Hoechst has also agreed to bear 80% of the financial obligations arising in connection with the government investigation and litigation associated with the sorbates industry for price fixing described in ‘‘Legal Proceedings—Sorbates Antitrust Actions’’ and Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, and CAG has agreed to bear the remaining 20%. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly and affect our operating results. Certain of our borrowings, primarily borrowings under the amended and restated senior credit facilities, are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, which we expect to occur, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash available for servicing our indebtedness would decrease. As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately $1.9 billion of variable rate debt, of which $0.3 billion is hedged with an interest rate swap, which leaves us approximately $1.6 billion of variable rate debt subject to interest rate exposure. Accordingly, a 1% increase in interest rates would increase annual interest expense by approximately $16 million. We may enter into interest rate swap agreements to reduce the exposure of interest rate risk inherent in our debt portfolio. We have, in the past, used swaps for hedging purposes only. 33 We are a ‘‘controlled company’’ within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange rules and, as a result, are exempt from certain corporate governance requirements. Affiliates of the Sponsor continue to control a majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. As a result, we are a ‘‘controlled company’’ within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange corporate governance standards. Under the New York Stock Exchange rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by another company is a ‘‘controlled company’’ and need not comply with certain requirements, including (1) the requirement that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors, (2) the requirement that the nominating committee be composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities, (3) the requirement that the compensation committee be composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities and (4) the requirement for an annual performance evaluation of the nominating/corporate governance and compensation committees. We intend to utilize these exemptions. As a result, we will not have a majority of independent directors nor will our nominating and compensation committees consist entirely of independent directors. Accordingly, you will not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of the New York Stock Exchange corporate governance requirements. Because our Sponsor controls us, the influence of our public shareholders over significant corporate actions will be limited, and conflicts of interest between our Sponsor and us or you could arise in the future. Our Sponsor beneficially owns (or has a right to acquire) approximately 52.1% of our outstanding Series A common stock. Under the terms of the stockholders’ agreement between us and the Original Shareholders, certain of the Original Stockholders that are affiliates of the Sponsor are also entitled to designate all nominees for election to our board of directors for so long as they hold at least 25% of the total voting power of our Series A common stock. Thereafter, although our Sponsor will not have an explicit contractual right to do so, it may still nominate directors in its capacity as a stockholder. As a result, our Sponsor, through its control over the composition of our board of directors and its control of the majority of the voting power of our Series A common stock, will continue to have effective control over our decisions to enter into any corporate transaction and will have the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of equityholders, regardless of whether or not other equityholders believe that any such transaction is in their own best interests. For example, our Sponsor effectively could cause us to make acquisitions that increase our indebtedness or to sell revenue-generating assets. Additionally, our Sponsor is in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Our Sponsor may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as our Sponsor continues to own a significant amount of our equity, even if such amount is less than 50%, it will continue to be able to significantly influence or effectively control our decisions. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation renounces any interest or expectancy that we have in, or right to be offered an opportunity to participate in, specified business opportunities. The second amended and restated certificate of incorporation further provides that none of the Original Stockholders (including the Sponsor) or their affiliates or any director who is not employed by Celanese (including any non-employee director who serves as one of our officers in both his director and officer capacities) or his or her affiliates has any duty to refrain from (i) engaging in a corporate opportunity in the same or similar lines of business in which we or our affiliates now engage or propose to engage or (ii) otherwise competing with us. In addition, in the event that any of the Original Stockholders (including the Sponsor) or any non-employee director acquires knowledge of a potential transaction or other business opportunity which may be a corporate opportunity for itself or himself or its or his affiliates and for Celanese or its affiliates, such Original Stockholder or non-employee director has no duty to communicate or offer such transaction or business opportunity to us and may take any such opportunity for themselves or offer it to another person or entity. 34 Our future success will depend in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, and our inability to enforce these rights could reduce our ability to maintain our market position and our margins. We attach great importance to patents, trademarks, copyrights and product designs in order to protect our investment in research and development, manufacturing and marketing. Our policy is to seek the widest possible protection for significant product and process developments in our major markets. Patents may cover products, processes, intermediate products and product uses. Protection for individual products extends for varying periods in accordance with the date of patent application filing and the legal life of patents in the various countries. The protection afforded, which may also vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent and its scope of coverage. Our continued growth strategy may bring us to regions of the world where intellectual property protection may be limited and difficult to enforce. As patents expire, the products and processes described and claimed in those patents become generally available for use by the public. Our European and U.S. patents for making Sunett, an important Performance Products product, expired at the end of the first quarter of 2005, which reduces our ability to realize revenues from making Sunett due to increased competition and potential limitations and will result in our results of operations and cash flows relating to the product being less favorable than today. We also seek to register trademarks extensively as a means of protecting the brand names of our products, which brand names become more important once the corresponding patents have expired. If we are not successful in protecting our trademark rights, our revenues, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected. The market price of our Series A common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decline. Securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, could reduce the market price of the Series A common stock in spite of our operating performance. In addition, our operating results could be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, and in response, the market price of our Series A common stock could decrease significantly. Provisions in our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as any shareholders’ rights plan, may discourage a takeover attempt. Provisions contained in our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our shareholders. Provisions of our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws impose various procedural and other requirements, which could make it more difficult for shareholders to effect certain corporate actions. For example, our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of unissued series of preferred stock, without any vote or action by our shareholders. Thus, our board of directors can authorize and issue shares of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting or other rights of holders of our Series A common stock. These rights may have the effect of delaying or deterring a change of control of our company. In addition, a change of control of our company may be delayed or deterred as a result of our having three classes of directors (each class elected for a three year term) or as a result of any shareholders’ rights plan that our board of directors may adopt. In addition, we would be required to issue additional shares of our Series A common stock to holders of the preferred stock who convert following a fundamental change. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our Series A common stock. Risks Related to the Acquisition of CAG If the Domination Agreement ceases to be operative, the Company’s managerial control over Celanese AG is limited. We own 100% of the outstanding shares of CAC and approximately 98% of the outstanding shares of CAG. Our access to the cash flows and our control of CAG is subject to the continuing effectiveness of the Domination Agreement. 35 The Domination Agreement is subject to legal challenges instituted by dissenting shareholders. Minority shareholders have filed several actions against CAG in the Frankfurt District Court (Landgericht), including actions that seek to set aside the shareholder resolutions passed at the extraordinary general meeting held on July 30 and 31, 2004. Although a number of these lawsuits were settled in March 2006, if any of the remaining lawsuits are successful, the Domination Agreement and the change in CAG’s fiscal year could be declared void and CAG could be prohibited from performing its obligations under the Domination Agreement. In addition, public register proceedings instituted by two minority shareholders are pending in the Königstein Local Court (Amtsgericht). These proceedings were commenced with a view to have the registration of the Domination Agreement in the Commercial Register deleted (Amtslöschungsverfahren). See ‘‘Legal Proceedings.’’ If the Domination Agreement ceases to be operative, the Purchaser’s ability, and thus our ability to control the board of management decisions of CAG, will be significantly limited by German law. As a result, we may not be able to ensure that our strategy for the operation of our business can be fully implemented. In addition, our access to the operating cash flow of CAG in order to fund payment requirements on our indebtedness will be limited, which could have a material adverse effect on the value of our stock. If the Domination Agreement ceases to be operative, certain actions taken under the Domination Agreement might have to be reversed. If the legal challenges to the Domination Agreement by dissenting shareholders of CAG are successful, some or all actions taken under the Domination Agreement may be required to be reversed and the Purchaser may be required to compensate CAG for damages caused by such actions. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our ability to make payments on our indebtedness and on the value of our stock. Minority shareholders may interfere with CAG’s future actions, which may prevent us from causing CAG to take actions which may have beneficial effects for our shareholders. The Purchaser currently owns approximately 98% of the CAG Shares. Shareholders unrelated to us hold the remainder of the outstanding CAG Shares. German law provides certain rights to minority shareholders, which could have the effect of delaying, or interfering with, corporate actions (including those requiring shareholder approval), such as a squeeze-out in accordance with the provisions of the German Transformation Act (Umwandlungsgesetz, UmwG). Minority shareholders may be able to delay or prevent the implementation of CAG’s corporate actions irrespective of the size of their shareholding. Any challenge by minority shareholders to the validity of a corporate action may be subject to judicial resolution that may substantially delay or hinder the implementation of such action. Such delays of, or interferences with, corporate actions as well as related litigation may limit our access to CAG’s cash flows and make it difficult or impossible for us to take or implement corporate actions which may be desirable in view of our operating or financial requirements, including actions which may have beneficial effects for our shareholders. CAG’s board of management may refuse to comply with instructions given by the Purchaser pursuant to the Domination Agreement, which may prevent us from causing CAG to take actions which may have beneficial effects for our shareholders. Under the Domination Agreement, the Purchaser is entitled to give instructions directly to the board of management of CAG, including, but not limited to, instructions that are disadvantageous to CAG, as long as such disadvantageous instructions benefit the Purchaser or the companies affiliated with either the Purchaser or CAG. CAG’s board of management is required to comply with any such instruction, unless, at the time when such instruction is given, (i) it is, in the opinion of the board of management of CAG, obviously not in the interests of the Purchaser or the companies affiliated with either the Purchaser or CAG, (ii) in the event of a disadvantageous instruction, the negative consequences to CAG are disproportionate to the benefits to the Purchaser or the companies affiliated with either the Purchaser or CAG, (iii) compliance with the instruction would violate legal or statutory restrictions, (iv) compliance with the instruction would endanger the existence of CAG or (v) it is doubtful whether the Purchaser will be able to fully compensate CAG, as required by the Domination Agreement, for its annual loss 36 (Jahresfehlbetrag) incurred during the fiscal year in which such instruction is given. The board of management of CAG remains ultimately responsible for making the executive decisions for CAG and the Purchaser, despite the Domination Agreement, is not entitled to act on behalf of, and has no power to legally bind, CAG. The CAG board of management may delay the implementation of, or refuse to implement, any of the Purchaser’s instructions despite its general obligation to follow such instructions (with the exceptions mentioned above). Such delays of, or interferences with, compliance with the Purchaser’s instructions by the board of management of CAG may make it difficult or impossible for the Purchaser to implement corporate actions which may be desirable in view of our operating or financial requirements, including actions which may have beneficial effects for our shareholders. The Purchaser is required to ensure that CAG pays a guaranteed fixed annual payment to the minority shareholders of CAG, which may reduce the funds the Purchaser can otherwise make available to us. As long as the Purchaser does not own 100% of the outstanding CAG Shares, the Domination Agreement requires, among other things, the Purchaser to ensure that CAG makes a gross guaranteed fixed annual payment (Ausgleich) to minority shareholders of €3.27 per CAG share less certain corporate taxes in lieu of any future dividend. Taking into account the circumstances and the tax rates at the time of entering into of the Domination Agreement, the net guaranteed fixed annual payment is €2.89 per CAG share for a full fiscal year. As of December 31, 2005, there were approximately 0.9 million CAG Shares held by minority shareholders. The net guaranteed fixed annual payment may, depending on applicable corporate tax rates, in the future be higher, lower or the same as €2.89. The amount of this guaranteed fixed annual payment was calculated in accordance with applicable German law. The amount of the payment is currently under review in special award proceedings (Spruchverfahren). See ‘‘Legal Proceedings.’’ Such guaranteed fixed annual payments will be required regardless of whether the actual distributable profits per share of CAG are higher, equal to, or lower than the amount of the guaranteed fixed annual payment per share. The guaranteed fixed annual payment will be payable for so long as there are minority shareholders of CAG and the Domination Agreement remains in place. No dividends for the period after the effectiveness of the Domination Agreement, other than the guaranteed fixed annual payment effectively paid by the Purchaser, have been or are expected to be paid by CAG. These requirements may reduce the funds the Purchaser can make available to the Company and its subsidiaries and, accordingly, diminish our ability to make payments on our respective indebtedness. See ‘‘Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity—Domination Agreement’’. The amounts of the fair cash compensation and of the guaranteed fixed annual payment offered under the Domination Agreement may be increased, which may further reduce the funds the Purchaser can otherwise make available to us. Several minority shareholders of CAG have initiated special award proceedings (Spruchverfahren) seeking the court’s review of the amounts of the fair cash compensation (Abfindung) and of the guaranteed fixed annual payment (Ausgleich) offered under the Domination Agreement. On March 14, 2005, the Frankfurt District Court (Landgericht) dismissed on grounds of inadmissibility the motions of all minority shareholders regarding the initiation of these special award proceedings. In January 2006, the Frankfurt Higher District Court (Oberlandesgericht) ruled that the appeals were admissible, and the proceedings will therefore continue. As a result of these proceedings, the amounts of the fair cash compensation (Abfindung) and of the guaranteed fixed annual payment (Ausgleich) could be increased by the court, and the Purchaser would be required to make such payments within two months after the publication of the court’s ruling. Any such increase may be substantial. All minority shareholders including those who have already received the fair cash compensation would be entitled to claim the respective higher amounts. This may reduce the funds the Purchaser can make available to the Company and its subsidiaries and, accordingly, diminish our ability to make payments on our indebtedness. See ‘‘Legal Proceedings.’’ The Purchaser may be required to compensate CAG for annual losses, which may reduce the funds the Purchaser can otherwise make available to Celanese. Under the Domination Agreement, the Purchaser is required, among other things, to compensate CAG for any annual loss incurred, determined in accordance with German accounting requirements, by 37 CAG at the end of the fiscal year in which the loss was incurred. This obligation to compensate CAG for annual losses will apply during the entire term of the Domination Agreement. If CAG incurs losses during any period of the operative term of the Domination Agreement and if such losses lead to an annual loss of CAG at the end of any given fiscal year during the term of the Domination Agreement, the Purchaser will be obligated to make a corresponding cash payment to CAG to the extent that the respective annual loss is not fully compensated for by the dissolution of profit reserves (Gewinnrücklagen) accrued at the level of CAG during the term of the Domination Agreement. The Purchaser may be able to reduce or avoid cash payments to CAG by off-setting against such loss compensation claims by CAG any valuable counterclaims against CAG that the Purchaser may have. If the Purchaser is obligated to make cash payments to CAG to cover an annual loss, we may not have sufficient funds to make payments on our indebtedness when due and, unless the Purchaser is able to obtain funds from a source other than annual profits of CAG, the Purchaser may not be able to satisfy its obligation to fund such shortfall. See ‘‘Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity —Domination Agreement’’. We and two of our subsidiaries have taken on certain obligations with respect to the Purchaser’s obligation under the Domination Agreement and intercompany indebtedness to CAG, which may diminish our ability to make payments on our indebtedness. Our subsidiaries, Celanese Caylux and BCP Crystal, have each agreed to provide the Purchaser with financing so that the Purchaser is at all times in a position to completely meet its obligations under, or in connection with, the Domination Agreement. They have further guaranteed to all minority shareholders of CAG that the Purchaser will meet the obligations to make a guaranteed fixed annual payment to the outstanding minority shareholders and to offer to acquire all outstanding CAG Shares from the minority shareholders in return for payment of fair cash consideration. In addition, Celanese has guaranteed (i) that the Purchaser will meet its obligation under the Domination Agreement to compensate CAG for any annual loss incurred by CAG during the term of the Domination Agreement; and (ii) the repayment of all existing intercompany indebtedness of Celanese’s subsidiaries to CAG. Further, under the terms of Celanese’s guarantee, in certain limited circumstances CAG may be entitled to require the immediate repayment of some or all of the intercompany indebtedness owed by Celanese’s subsidiaries to CAG. If Celanese, Celanese Caylux and/or BCP Crystal are obligated to make payments under their obligations to the Purchaser or CAG, as the case may be, or if the intercompany indebtedness owed to CAG is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds for payments on our indebtedness when due or other expenditures. Even if the minority shareholders’ challenges to the Domination Agreement are unsuccessful and the Domination Agreement continues to be operative, we may not be able to receive distributions from CAG sufficient to pay our obligations. Even if the minority shareholders’ challenges to the Domination Agreement are unsuccessful and the Domination Agreement continues to be operative, we are limited in the amount of distributions we may receive in any year from CAG. Under German law, the amount of distributions to the Purchaser will be determined based on the amount of unappropriated earnings generated during the term of the Domination Agreement as shown in the unconsolidated annual financial statements of CAG, prepared in accordance with German accounting principles and as adopted and approved by resolutions of the CAG board of management and supervisory board, which financial statements may be different from Celanese’s consolidated financial statements under U.S. GAAP. Our share of these earnings, if any, may not be sufficient to allow us to pay our indebtedness as it becomes due which could have a material adverse effect on the value of our stock. We must rely on payments from our subsidiaries to fund payments on our preferred stock, and certain of our subsidiaries must rely on payments from their own subsidiaries to fund payments on their indebtedness. Such funds may not be available in certain circumstances. We must rely on payments from our subsidiaries to fund dividend, redemption and other payments on our preferred stock. In addition, our subsidiaries Crystal US Holdings 3 L.L.C. (‘‘Crystal LLC’’) and BCP Crystal are holding companies and all of their operations are conducted through their subsidiaries. Therefore, they depend on the cash flow of their subsidiaries, including CAG, to meet their obligations. 38 If the Domination Agreement ceases to be operative, such subsidiaries may be unable to meet their obligations under such indebtedness. Although the Domination Agreement became operative on October 1, 2004, it is subject to legal challenges instituted by dissenting shareholders. See "Legal Proceedings". The ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us, BCP Crystal and Crystal LLC by way of dividends, interest, return on investments, or other payments (including loans) or distributions is subject to various restrictions, including restrictions imposed by the amended and restated senior credit facilities and indentures governing their indebtedness, and the terms of future debt may also limit or prohibit such payments. In addition, the ability of the subsidiaries to make such payments may be limited by relevant provisions of German and other applicable laws. The Purchaser may be required to purchase all of the remaining outstanding CAG Shares at a price yet to be determined. The Purchaser currently owns approximately 98% of CAG’s shares. In November 2005, we requested the Purchaser to require, as permitted under German law, the transfer of the CAG shares owned by the then-outstanding minority shareholders of CAG in exchange for fair cash compensation (the ‘‘Squeeze-Out’’). A Squeeze-Out is permitted under German law once a shareholder acquires 95% or more of CAG’s registered ordinary share capital (excluding treasury shares). A shareholders’ resolution authorizing the Squeeze-Out is scheduled to be brought before the annual general meeting in May 2006. The amount of the fair cash compensation per share under the Squeeze-Out has been set to €62.22 per share. This price might even be increased if the amount of fair cash compensation is challenged in court. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Basis of Presentation — Squeeze-Out." Risks Related to Internal Controls Our internal controls over financial reporting may not be effective and our independent auditors may not be able to certify as to their effectiveness, which could have a significant and adverse effect on our business and reputation. We are evaluating our internal controls over financial reporting in order to allow management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") thereunder, which we refer to as Section 404. We are currently performing the system and process evaluation and testing required (and any necessary remediation) in an effort to comply with management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404. The management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 will initially apply to us as of December 31, 2006 and CAG as of September 30, 2007. In the course of our ongoing Section 404 evaluation, we have identified areas of internal controls that may need improvement, and are implementing enhanced processes and controls to address these and any other issues that might be identified through this review. However, as we are still in the evaluation process, we may identify conditions that may result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in the future. In 2004, certain members of our accounting staff identified two significant deficiencies. In 2005, we identified a significant deficiency initiated from an SEC review of a registration statement filed in the third quarter of 2005. Two material weaknesses, in addition to, and separate from, our Section 404 evaluation process were also identified in connection with the audit of our financial statements as of and for the nine months ended December 31, 2004. Those deficiencies are discussed in detail in the immediately subsequent risk factor. We cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and any remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations. If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, our internal controls would be considered ineffective for purposes of Section 404, our independent auditors may not be able to certify as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC. As a result, there could be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. In addition, we may be required to incur costs in improving our internal control system and the hiring of additional personnel. Any such action could negatively affect our results. 39 We and our independent auditors have identified significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in our internal controls that could affect our ability to ensure timely and reliable financial reports. In addition to, and separate from, our evaluation of internal controls under Section 404 and any areas requiring improvement that we identify as part of that process, we previously identified two significant deficiencies and two material weaknesses in our internal controls. The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (‘‘PCAOB’’) defines a significant deficiency as a control deficiency, or a combination of control deficiencies, that adversely affects our ability to initiate, authorize, record, process, or report external financial data reliably in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles such that there is more than a remote likelihood that a misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements that is more than inconsequential will not be prevented or detected. The PCAOB defines a material weakness as a single deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. In 2004, we identified two significant deficiencies in internal controls in the computation of certain accounting adjustments. These deficiencies were discovered in addition to, and separate from, the evaluation process we are conducting in connection with Section 404. The first deficiency was identified during the quarter ended June 30, 2004 by members of our corporate financial reporting group and related to the qualifications and ability of certain accounting managers to initially calculate the change from the LIFO (last-in, first-out) method of accounting for inventories to FIFO (first-in, first-out) and the resulting failure of such employees to correctly make such calculations. The second was identified during the quarter ended June 30, 2004 by one of our financial accounting managers and related to an omitted employee benefit accrual due to the failure to provide the applicable employment contracts to the actuary prior to the cut-off date for the December 31, 2003 pension valuation. Corrective actions taken by us included an internal audit review, the development of enhanced guidelines, the termination and reassignment of responsible persons and an elevation of the issues to the Supervisory Board of CAG. The significant deficiencies noted were corrected in the quarter ended September 30, 2004 and thus did not exist as of December 31, 2004 and 2005. In September 2005 we identified a significant deficiency in internal controls relating to sales to countries and other parties that are or have previously been subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the U. S. government. This significant deficiency was identified as a result of an internal investigation that was initiated in connection with the SEC review of a registration statement filed in the third quarter of 2005. The Company has informed the U.S. Treasury Department and the U.S. Department of Commerce of these matters and is currently engaged in discussions with the Departments. To the extent that the Company violated any regulations with respect to the above or other transactions, the Company may be subject to fines or other sanctions, including possible criminal penalties, which may result in adverse business consequences. We have taken immediate corrective actions which include a directive to senior business leaders stating that they are prohibited from selling products into certain countries subject to these trade restrictions, as well as making accounting systems modifications that prevents the initiation of purchase orders and shipment of products to these countries. Also, we plan to enhance the business conduct policy training in the area of export control. As a result, we believe that we have taken remediation measures that, once fully implemented, will be effective in eliminating this deficiency. In connection with the audit of our financial statements as of and for the nine months ended December 31, 2004, we identified a material weakness in our internal controls for the same period. On March 30, 2005, we received a letter from KPMG LLP ("KPMG"), our independent auditors, who also identified the same material weakness and a second material weakness in the course of their audit. The additional material weakness identified by KPMG related to several deficiencies in the assessment of hedge effectiveness and documentation. The required adjustments were made in the proper accounting period, except for one immaterial hedging transaction adjusted during the quarter ended June 30, 2005. The material weakness identified by KPMG and us related to conditions preventing our ability to adequately research, document, review and draw conclusions on accounting and reporting matters, which had previously resulted in adjustments that had to be recorded to prevent a material misstatement of our financial statements. The conditions largely related to significant increases in the frequency of and the limited number of personnel available to address, complex accounting matters and transactions and as a result of the consummation of simultaneous debt and equity offerings during the year-end closing process. 40 We do not believe that the adjustments made in connection with these material weaknesses had any material impact on previously reported financial information. In response to the letter from KPMG with respect to the first material weakness identified above, we organized a team responsible for the identification and documentation of potential derivative accounting transactions and commenced and completed formal training for team members specifically related to derivative accounting. With respect to the second material weakness identified above, we hired additional qualified accounting personnel which should ensure that we will be able to adequately research, document, review and draw conclusions on accounting, and reporting, matters. Both material weaknesses were identified during our December 31, 2004 year-end closing process and we believe that we have remediated these material weaknesses as of December 31, 2005. During 2005, we have been implementing changes to strengthen our internal controls. As a result of these changes, we believe that as of December 31, 2005, our disclosure controls and procedures are effective for gathering and analyzing and disclosing on a timely basis the information required to be disclosed under the rules and forms of the SEC. While we have taken actions to address these deficiencies and weaknesses, additional measures may be necessary and these measures along with other measures we expect to take to improve our internal controls may not be sufficient to address the issues identified by us or ensure that our internal controls are effective. If we are unable to correct existing or future deficiencies or weaknesses in internal controls in a timely manner, our ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the SEC will be adversely affected. This failure could materially and adversely impact our business, our financial condition and the market value of our securities. In addition, there could be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in reliability of future financial statements and SEC filings. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Our high level of indebtedness could diminish our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or the chemicals industry and prevent us from meeting obligations under our indebtedness. We are highly leveraged. Our total indebtedness totals approximately $3.4 billion as of December 31, 2005 (excluding $175 million of future accretion on the senior discount notes). Our substantial debt could have important consequences, including: • making it more difficult for us to make payments on our debt; • increasing vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; • requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings, including the borrowings under the amended and restated senior credit facilities, are at variable rates of interest; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and • limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt. Despite our current high leverage, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks of our high leverage. We may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of our existing debt do not fully prohibit us from doing so. If new debt, including amounts available under our senior credit facilities, is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. See 41 ‘‘Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Liquidity—Contractual Obligations.’’ We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our indebtedness, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to satisfy our cash needs depends on cash on hand, receipt of additional capital, including possible additional borrowings, and receipt of cash from our subsidiaries by way of distributions, advances or cash payments. See ‘‘Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Liquidity—Contractual Obligations.’’ Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on the financial condition and operating performance of our subsidiaries, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. The amended and restated senior credit facilities and the indentures governing our indebtedness restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from the disposition. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds which we could realize from them and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. Restrictive covenants in our debt instruments may limit our ability to engage in certain transactions and may diminish our ability to make payments on our indebtedness. The amended and restated senior credit facilities and the indentures governing our indebtedness contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit the ability of Crystal LLC, BCP Crystal and their restricted subsidiaries to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock, pay dividends on or make other distributions on or repurchase their capital stock or make other restricted payments, make investments, and sell certain assets. In addition, the amended and restated senior credit facilities contain covenants that require Celanese Holdings to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests. Celanese Holdings’ ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond its control, and it may not be able to meet those tests at all. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the amended and restated senior credit facilities. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the amended and restated senior credit facilities, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the amended and restated senior credit facilities to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If Celanese Holdings were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under the amended and restated senior credit facilities could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. Celanese’s subsidiaries have pledged a significant portion of their assets as collateral under the amended and restated senior credit facilities. If the lenders under the amended and restated senior credit facilities accelerate the repayment of borrowings, the Company and its subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay the amended and restated senior credit facilities as well as their other indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on the value of our stock. The terms of our amended and restated senior credit facilities limit the ability of BCP Crystal and its subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise transfer their assets to us. Our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries and our ability to pay dividends is dependent on the earnings and the distribution of funds from our subsidiaries. However, the terms of our amended 42 and restated senior credit facilities limit the ability of BCP Crystal and its subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise transfer their assets to us. Accordingly, our ability to pay dividends on our stock is similarly limited. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 43 Item 