Item 1A. Risk Factors Many factors could have an effect on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We are subject to various risks resulting from changing economic, environmental, political, industry, business and financial conditions. The factors described below represent our principal risks. Risks Related to Our Business The worldwide economic downturn and difficult conditions in the global capital and credit markets have affected and may continue to adversely affect our business, as well as the industries of many of our customers and suppliers, which are cyclical in nature. We do not expect these conditions to improve in the near future. Some of the markets in which our end-use customers participate, such as the automotive, electrical, construction and textile industries, are cyclical in nature, thus posing a risk to us which is beyond our control. These markets are highly competitive, to a large extent driven by end-use markets, and may experience overcapacity, all of which may affect demand for and pricing of our products. Recent declines in consumer and business confidence and spending, together with severe reductions in the availability and cost of credit and volatility in the capital and credit markets, have adversely affected the business and economic environment in which we operate and the profitability of our business. Our business is exposed to risks associated with the creditworthiness of our key suppliers, customers and business partners. In particular, we are exposed to risks associated with the ongoing decline of the automotive, textile and housing markets. These conditions have resulted in financial instability or other adverse effects at many of our suppliers, customers or business partners. The consequences of such adverse effects could include the interruption of production at the facilities of our customers, the reduction, delay or cancellation of customer orders, delays in or the inability of customers to obtain financing to purchase our products, delays or interruptions of the supply of raw materials we purchase and bankruptcy of customers, suppliers or other creditors. Any of these events may adversely affect our cash flow, profitability and financial condition. Moreover, the current worldwide financial crisis has reduced the availability of liquidity and credit to fund or support the continuation and expansion of business operations worldwide. Many lenders and institutional investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. Continued disruption of the credit markets has affected and could continue to adversely affect our customer’s access to credit which supports the continuation 17 Table of Contents and expansion of their businesses worldwide and could result in contract cancellations or suspensions, payment delays or defaults by our customers. We are a company with operations around the world and are exposed to general economic, political and regulatory conditions and risks in the countries in which we have significant operations. We operate in the global market and have customers in many countries. We have major facilities primarily located in North America, Europe and Asia, and hold interests in ventures that operate in Germany, China, Japan, South Korea and Saudi Arabia. Our principal customers are similarly global in scope, and the prices of our most significant products are typically world market prices. Consequently, our business and financial results are affected, directly and indirectly, by world economic, political and regulatory conditions. In addition to the worldwide economic downturn, conditions such as the uncertainties associated with war, terrorist activities, epidemics, pandemics or political instability in any of the countries in which we operate could affect us by causing delays or losses in the supply or delivery of raw materials and products, as well as increasing security costs, insurance premiums and other expenses. These conditions could also result in or lengthen economic recession in the United States, Europe, Asia or elsewhere. Moreover, changes in laws or regulations, such as unexpected changes in regulatory requirements (including import or export licensing requirements), or changes in the reporting requirements of the United States, German or European Union (“EU”) governmental agencies, could increase the cost of doing business in these regions. Any of these conditions may have an effect on our business and financial results as a whole and may result in volatile current and future prices for our securities, including our stock. In particular, we have invested significant resources in China and other Asian countries. This region’s growth has slowed and we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits associated with our investment there and our financial results may be adversely impacted. We are subject to risks associated with the increased volatility in the prices and availability of key raw materials and energy. We purchase significant amounts of natural gas, ethylene and methanol from third parties for use in our production of basic chemicals in the Acetyl Intermediates segment, principally formaldehyde, acetic acid and VAM. We use a portion of our output of these chemicals, in turn, as inputs in the production of further products in all our segments. We also purchase significant amounts of wood pulp for use in our production of cellulose acetate in the Consumer Specialties segment. The price of many of these items is dependent on the available supply of such item and may increase significantly as a result of production disruptions or strikes. For example, the unplanned shutdown of our Clear Lake, Texas facility together with other tight supply conditions caused a shortage of acetic acid and increased the price for such product during 2007. We are exposed to any volatility in the prices of our raw materials and energy. Although we have agreements providing for the supply of natural gas, ethylene, wood pulp, electricity and fuel oil, the contractual prices for these raw materials and energy vary with market conditions and may be highly volatile. Factors which have caused volatility in our raw material prices in the past and which may do so in the future include: • Shortages of raw materials due to increasing demand, e.g., from growing uses or new uses; • Capacity constraints, e.g., due to construction delays, strike action or involuntary shutdowns; • The general level of business and economic activity; and • The direct or indirect effect of governmental regulation. If we are not able to fully offset the effects of higher energy and raw material costs, or if such commodities were unavailable, it could have a significant adverse effect on our financial results. 18 Table of Contents Failure to develop new products and production technologies or to implement productivity and cost reduction initiatives successfully may harm our competitive position. Our operating results, especially in our Consumer Specialties and Advanced Engineered Materials segments, depend significantly on the development of commercially viable new products, product grades and applications, as well as production technologies. If we are unsuccessful in developing new products, applications and production processes in the future, our competitive position and operating results may be negatively affected. Likewise, we have undertaken and are continuing to undertake initiatives in all segments to improve productivity and performance and to generate cost savings. These initiatives may not be completed or beneficial or the estimated cost savings from such activities may not be realized. Recent federal regulations aimed at increasing security at certain chemical production plants and similar legislation that may be proposed in the future could, if passed into law, require us to relocate certain manufacturing activities and require us to alter or discontinue our production of certain chemical products, thereby increasing our operating costs and causing an adverse effect on our results of operations. Regulations have recently been issued by the Department of Homeland Security (“DHS”) aimed at decreasing the risk, and effects, of potential terrorist attacks on chemical plants located within the United States. Pursuant to these regulations, these goals would be accomplished in part through the requirement that certain high-priority facilities develop a prevention, preparedness, and response plan after conducting a vulnerability assessment. In addition, companies may be required to evaluate the possibility of using less dangerous chemicals and technologies as part of their vulnerability assessments and prevention plans and implementing feasible safer technologies in order to minimize potential damage to their facilities from a terrorist attack. We have registered certain of our sites with DHS in accordance with these regulations, and are conducting vulnerability assessments for our sites and until that is done we cannot state with certainty the costs associated with any security plans that DHS may require. These regulations may be revised further, and additional legislation may be proposed in the future on this topic. It is possible that such future legislation could contain terms that are more restrictive than what has recently been passed and which would be more costly to us. We cannot predict the final form of currently pending legislation, or other related legislation that may be passed and can provide no assurance that such legislation will not have an adverse effect on our results of operations in a future reporting period. Environmental regulations and other obligations relating to environmental matters could subject us to liability for fines, clean-ups and other damages, require us to incur significant costs to modify our operations and increase our manufacturing and delivery costs. Costs related to our compliance with environmental laws and regulations, and potential obligations with respect to contaminated sites may have a significant negative impact on our operating results. These include obligations related to sites currently or formerly owned or operated by us, or where waste from our operations was disposed. We also have obligations related to the indemnity agreement contained in the demerger and transfer agreement between Celanese GmbH and Hoechst, also referred to as the demerger agreement, for environmental matters arising out of certain divestitures that took place prior to the demerger. Our operations are subject to extensive international, national, state, local and other supranational laws and regulations that govern environmental and health and safety matters, including the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (“CERCLA”) and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (“RCRA”). We incur substantial capital and other costs to comply with these requirements. If we violate them, we can be held liable for substantial fines and other sanctions, including limitations on our operations as a result of changes to or revocations of environmental permits involved. Stricter environmental, safety and health laws, regulations and enforcement policies could result in substantial costs and liabilities to us or limitations on our operations and could subject our handling, manufacture, use, reuse or disposal of substances or pollutants to more rigorous scrutiny than at present. Consequently, compliance with these laws and regulations could result in significant capital expenditures as well as other costs and liabilities, which could cause our business and operating results to be less favorable than expected. 19 Table of Contents We are also involved in several claims, lawsuits and administrative proceedings relating to environmental matters. An adverse outcome in any of them may negatively affect our earnings and cash flows in a particular reporting period. Changes in environmental, health and safety regulations in the jurisdictions where we manufacture and sell our products could lead to a decrease in demand for our products. New or revised governmental regulations and independent studies relating to the effect of our products on health, safety and the environment may affect demand for our products and the cost of producing our products. Canada recently included vinyl acetate monomer (“VAM”) as one of approximately 200 chemicals being assessed as part of the Canadian Government’s Chemicals Management Plan under the Canadian Environmental Protection Act (“CEPA”). On May 16, 2008, Health Canada published a draft screening risk assessment and draft risk management scope document for VAM that concluded, using a ’precautionary approach’, that VAM be listed as a “toxic substance” under CEPA. On January 27, 2009, after consideration of data submitted by Celanese and other manufacturers and users of VAM and further consideration of a risk assessment prepared by the European Union, Health Canada published its final decision overruling its May 16, 2008 draft assessment of VAM. Health Canada concluded that VAM does not meet the regulatory requirements for being listed as a toxic substance under CEPA. The Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (“REACh”), which established a system to register and evaluate chemicals manufactured in, or imported to, the European Union, became effective on June 1, 2007. VAM is one of the chemicals that the European Chemicals Agency (“ECHA”) will regulate under REACh. ECHA will likely rely on the work of the EU-Working group on classification and labeling of dangerous substances. After extensive study, the EU-Working Group agreed that VAM should be classified in the EU as showing limited evidence of a carcinogenic effect. In addition, a risk assessment was performed on VAM by the European Chemicals Bureau of the European Commission. Risk reduction strategies for human health and the environment were finalized without the imposition of any restrictions or burdens atypical to an industrial chemical. The EU-Working Group conclusion has been reviewed and substantively approved by EU Scientific Committee on Health and Environmental Risks. We can provide no assurance that the EU classifications on VAM will not be revised in the future, or that other chemicals we produce will not be classified in a manner that would adversely affect demand for such products. Such negative classifications could have an adverse affect on our business and results of operations. We are a producer of formaldehyde and plastics derived from formaldehyde. Several studies have investigated possible links between formaldehyde exposure and various end points including leukemia. The International Agency for Research on Cancer (“IARC”), a private research agency, has reclassified formaldehyde from Group 2A (probable human carcinogen) to Group 1 (known human carcinogen) based on studies linking formaldehyde exposure to nasopharyngeal cancer, a rare cancer in humans. We expect the results of IARC’s review will be examined and considered by government agencies with responsibility for setting worker and environmental exposure standards and labeling requirements. If such agencies give strong consideration to IARC’s findings in setting such standards and requirements, it could have an adverse effect on our business. Other pending initiatives will potentially require toxicological testing and risk assessments of a wide variety of chemicals, including chemicals used or produced by us. These initiatives include the Voluntary Children’s Chemical Evaluation Program, High Production Volume Chemical Initiative and Chemical Assessment and Management Program (“ChAMP”) in the United States, as well as various European Commission programs, such as REACh. The above-mentioned assessments in the United States, Canada and Europe may result in heightened concerns about the chemicals involved and additional requirements being placed on the production, handling, labeling or use of the subject chemicals. Such concerns and additional requirements could increase the cost incurred by our customers to use our chemical products and otherwise limit the use of these products, which could lead to a decrease in demand for these products. Such a decrease in demand would likely have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents Our production facilities handle the processing of some volatile and hazardous materials that subject us to operating risks that could have a negative effect on our operating results. Our operations are subject to operating risks associated with chemical manufacturing, including the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products and waste. These risks include, among other things, pipeline and storage tank leaks and ruptures, explosions and fires and discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances. These operating risks can cause personal injury, property damage and environmental contamination, and may result in the shutdown of affected facilities and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. The occurrence of any of these events may disrupt production and have a negative effect on the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility and our operating results and cash flows. Production at our manufacturing facilities could be disrupted for a variety of reasons, which could prevent us from producing enough of our products to maintain our sales and satisfy our customers’ demands. A disruption in production at our manufacturing facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business. Disruptions could occur for many reasons, including fire, natural disasters, weather, unplanned maintenance or other manufacturing problems, disease, strikes, transportation interruption, government regulation or terrorism. Alternative facilities with sufficient capacity or capabilities may not be available, may cost substantially more or may take a significant time to start production, each of which could negatively affect our business and financial performance. If one of our key manufacturing facilities is unable to produce our products for an extended period of time, our sales may be reduced by the shortfall caused by the disruption and we may not be able to meet our customers’ needs, which could cause them to seek other suppliers. For example, during 2007, production was disrupted for an extended period of time at our Clear Lake, Texas facility that produces primarily acetic acid and VAM. The disruption was caused by an unplanned outage of our acetic acid unit. Because of this disruption, the volumes of our Acetyl Intermediates segment were lower than we had expected for 2007 as we were unable to fully offset the lost production. Similar outages could occur in the future from unexpected disruptions at any of our other manufacturing facilities of key products. Such outages could have an adverse effect on our results of operations in future reporting periods. We may experience unexpected difficulties in the relocation of our Ticona plant from Kelsterbach to the Rhine Main area, which may increase our costs, delay the transition or disrupt our ability to supply our customers. We have agreed with Frankfurt, Germany Airport (“Fraport”) to relocate our Kelsterbach, Germany business, resolving several years of legal disputes related to the planned Frankfurt airport expansion. As a result of the settlement, we will transition Ticona’s operations from Kelsterbach to another location in Germany by mid-2011. In July 2007, we announced that we would relocate the Kelsterbach, Germany business to the Hoechst Industrial Park in the Rhine Main area. Over a five-year period, Fraport agreed to pay Ticona a total of €670 million to offset the costs associated with the transition of the business from its current location and the closure of the Kelsterbach plant. While the settlement and related payment amount are meant to be cost-neutral and represent the actual amount we will require to select a site, build new production facilities, demolish old production facilities and transition business activities according to schedule and without any disruptions to customer supply, we may encounter unexpected costs or other difficulties during the relocation process that bring the total costs of the relocation to an amount greater than the compensation provided by Fraport. The relocation of these facilities represents a major logistical undertaking, and we may have underestimated the amount that will be required to carry out every aspect of the relocation. We may lose the services of valuable experienced employees during the transition if they decide not to work at the new location. The construction of the new facilities may not be complete on time or may face cost overruns. If our costs relating to the relocation exceed the amount of payments from Fraport or if the relocation causes other unexpected difficulties, our expenses may increase or supplies to our customers may be disrupted. If supply to our customers is disrupted for an extended period, this could negatively impact the reputation of this business and result in the loss of customers. Such effects could have an adverse impact on our results of operations in future periods. 21 Table of Contents Our significant non-US operations expose us to global exchange rate fluctuations that could adversely impact our profitability. As we conduct a significant portion of our operations outside the United States, fluctuations in currencies of other countries, especially the Euro, may materially affect our operating results. For example, changes in currency exchange rates may decrease our profits in comparison to the profits of our competitors on the same products sold in the same markets and increase the cost of items required in our operations. A substantial portion of our net sales is denominated in currencies other than the US dollar. In our consolidated financial statements, we translate our local currency financial results into US dollars based on average exchange rates prevailing during a reporting period or the exchange rate at the end of that period. During times of a strengthening US dollar our reported international sales, earnings, assets and liabilities will be reduced because the local currency will translate into fewer US dollars. In addition to currency translation risks, we incur a currency transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a currency different from the operating subsidiary’s functional currency. Given the volatility of exchange rates, we may not be able to manage our currency transaction and translation risks effectively, and volatility in currency exchange rates may expose our financial condition or results of operations to a significant additional risk. Since a portion of our indebtedness is and will be denominated in currencies other than US dollars, a weakening of the US dollar could make it more difficult for us to repay our indebtedness. We use financial instruments to hedge our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations, but we cannot guarantee that our hedging strategies will be effective. Failure to effectively manage these risks could have an adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Significant changes in pension fund investment performance or assumptions relating to pension costs may have a material effect on the valuation of pension obligations, the funded status of pension plans and our pension cost. The cost of our pension plans is incurred over long periods of time and involve many uncertainties during those periods of time. Our funding policy for pension plans is to accumulate plan assets that, over the long run, will approximate the present value of projected benefit obligations. Our pension cost is materially affected by the discount rate used to measure pension obligations, the level of plan assets available to fund those obligations at the measurement date and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. Significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets can result in corresponding increases and decreases in the valuation of plan assets, particularly equity securities, or in a change of the expected rate of return on plan assets. During the previous fiscal year, the value of our plan assets declined significantly due to the decline in the overall equity markets. A change in the discount rate would result in a significant increase or decrease in the valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported funded status of our pension plans as well as the net periodic pension cost in the following fiscal years. In recent years, an extended duration strategy in the asset portfolio has been implemented to minimize the influence of liability volatility due to interest rate movements. Similarly, changes in the expected return on plan assets can result in significant changes in the net periodic pension cost for subsequent fiscal years. If the value of our pension fund’s portfolio declines or does not perform as expected or if our experience with the fund leads us to change our assumptions regarding the fund, we may be required to contribute additional capital to the fund. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. Our inability to enforce these rights could reduce our ability to maintain our market position and our profit margins. We attach great importance to patents, trademarks, copyrights and product designs in order to protect our investment in research and development, manufacturing and marketing. Our policy is to seek the widest possible protection for significant product and process developments in our major markets. Patents may cover products, processes, intermediate products and product uses. Protection for individual products extends for varying periods in accordance with the date of patent application filing and the legal life of patents in the various countries. The protection afforded, which may also vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent and its scope of 22 Table of Contents coverage. As patents expire, the products and processes described and claimed in those patents become generally available for use by the public. We also seek to register trademarks extensively as a means of protecting the brand names of our products, which brand names become more important once the corresponding patents have expired. Our continued growth strategy may bring us to regions of the world where intellectual property protection may be limited and difficult to enforce. If we are not successful in protecting our trademark or patent rights, our revenues, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected. Provisions in our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and second amended and restated bylaws, as well as any shareholders’ rights plan, may discourage a takeover attempt. Provisions contained in our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our shareholders. Provisions of our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws impose various procedural and other requirements, which could make it more difficult for shareholders to effect certain corporate actions. For example, our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of unissued series of preferred stock, without any vote or action by our shareholders. Thus, our Board of Directors can authorize and issue shares of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting or other rights of holders of our Series A common stock. These rights may have the effect of delaying or deterring a change of control of our company. In addition, a change of control of our company may be delayed or deterred as a result of our having three classes of directors (each class elected for a three year term) or as a result of any shareholders’ rights plan that our Board of Directors may adopt. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our Series A common stock. Risks Related to the Acquisition of Celanese GmbH, formerly Celanese AG The amounts of the fair cash compensation and of the guaranteed annual payment offered under the domination and profit and loss transfer agreement (“Domination Agreement”) may be increased, which may further reduce the funds the Purchaser can otherwise make available to us. Several minority shareholders of Celanese GmbH have initiated special award proceedings seeking the court’s review of the amounts of the fair cash compensation and of the guaranteed annual payment offered under the Domination Agreement. On March 14, 2005, the Frankfurt District Court dismissed on grounds of inadmissibility the motions of all minority shareholders regarding the initiation of these special award proceedings. In January 2006, the Frankfurt Higher District Court ruled that the appeals were admissible, and the proceedings will therefore continue. On December 12, 2006, the Frankfurt District Court appointed an expert to help determine the value of Celanese GmbH. As a result of these proceedings, the amounts of the fair cash compensation and of the guaranteed annual payment could be increased by the court, and the Purchaser would be required to make such payments within two months after the publication of the court’s ruling. Any such increase may be substantial. All minority shareholders would be entitled to claim the respective higher amounts. This may reduce the funds the Purchaser can make available to us and, accordingly, diminish our ability to make payments on our indebtedness. See Note 23 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. The Purchaser may be required to compensate Celanese GmbH for annual losses, which may reduce the funds the Purchaser can otherwise make available to us. Under the Domination Agreement, the Purchaser is required, among other things, to compensate Celanese GmbH for any annual loss incurred, determined in accordance with German accounting requirements, by Celanese GmbH at the end of the fiscal year in which the loss was incurred. This obligation to compensate Celanese GmbH for annual losses will apply during the entire term of the Domination Agreement. If Celanese GmbH incurs losses during any period of the operative term of the Domination Agreement and if such losses lead to an annual loss of Celanese GmbH at the end of any given fiscal year during the term of the Domination Agreement, the Purchaser will be obligated to make a corresponding cash payment to Celanese GmbH to the extent that the respective annual loss is not fully compensated for by the dissolution of profit reserves accrued at the level of Celanese GmbH during the term of the Domination Agreement. The Purchaser may be able to reduce or avoid cash payments to Celanese GmbH by off-setting against such loss compensation claims by Celanese GmbH any valuable counterclaims against 23 Table of Contents Celanese GmbH that the Purchaser may have. If the Purchaser is obligated to make cash payments to Celanese GmbH to cover an annual loss, we may not have sufficient funds to make payments on our indebtedness when due and, unless the Purchaser is able to obtain funds from a source other than annual profits of Celanese GmbH, the Purchaser may not be able to satisfy its obligation to fund such shortfall. See Note 23 to the consolidated financial statements. We and two of our subsidiaries have taken on certain obligations with respect to the Purchaser’s obligation under the Domination Agreement and intercompany indebtedness to Celanese GmbH, which may diminish our ability to make payments on our indebtedness. Our subsidiaries, Celanese International Holdings Luxembourg S.à r.l. (“CIH”), formerly Celanese Caylux Holdings Luxembourg S.C.A., and Celanese US, have each agreed to provide the Purchaser with financing so that the Purchaser is at all times in a position to completely meet its obligations under, or in connection with, the Domination Agreement. In addition, Celanese has guaranteed (i) that the Purchaser will meet its obligation under the Domination Agreement to compensate Celanese GmbH for any annual loss incurred by Celanese GmbH during the term of the Domination Agreement; and (ii) the repayment of all existing intercompany indebtedness of Celanese’s subsidiaries to Celanese GmbH. Further, under the terms of Celanese’s guarantee, in certain limited circumstances Celanese GmbH may be entitled to require the immediate repayment of some or all of the intercompany indebtedness owed by Celanese’s subsidiaries to Celanese GmbH. If CIH and/or Celanese US are obligated to make payments under their obligations to the Purchaser or Celanese GmbH, as the case may be, or if the intercompany indebtedness owed to Celanese GmbH is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds for payments on our indebtedness when due. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness See also “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Liquidity — Contractual Obligations.” Our level of indebtedness could diminish our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or the chemicals industry and prevent us from meeting obligations under our indebtedness. Our total indebtedness is approximately $3.5 billion as of December 31, 2008. Our debt could have important consequences, including: • increasing vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions including exacerbating any adverse business effects that are determined to be material adverse effects under our senior credit facility; • requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and • limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt. A breach of a covenant or other provision in any debt instrument governing our current or future indebtedness could result in a default under that instrument and, due to cross-default provisions, could result in a default under our senior credit facility. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the senior credit facility, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral, if any, granted to them to secure the indebtedness. If the lenders under the senior credit facility were to accelerate the payment of the indebtedness, there is no guarantee that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to repay in full our outstanding indebtedness. 24 Table of Contents Moreover, the terms of our existing debt do not fully prohibit us or our subsidiaries from incurring substantial additional indebtedness in the future. If new debt, including amounts available under our senior credit agreement, is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. See also “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Liquidity — Contractual Obligations.” Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly and affect our operating results. Certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates were to increase, our debt service obligations on our variable rate indebtedness would increase, net of the impacts of hedges in place. In April 2007, we, through certain of our subsidiaries, entered into a senior credit agreement. The new senior credit agreement consists of $2,280 million of US dollar denominated and €400 million of Euro denominated term loans due 2014, a $650 million revolving credit facility terminating in 2013 and a $228 million credit-linked revolving facility terminating in 2014. Borrowings under the new senior credit agreement bear interest at a variable interest rate based on LIBOR (for US dollars) or EURIBOR (for Euros), as applicable, or, for US dollar denominated loans under certain circumstances, a base rate, in each case plus an applicable margin. The applicable margin for the term loans and any loans under the credit-linked revolving facility is 1.75%, subject to potential reductions as defined in the new senior credit agreement. The term loans under the new senior credit agreement are subject to amortization at 1% of the initial principal amount per annum, payable quarterly, commencing in July 2007. The remaining principal amount of the term loans will be due on April 2, 2014. An increase in interest rates could have an adverse impact on our future results of operations and cash flows. See also “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk — Interest Rate Risk Management.” We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our indebtedness, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to satisfy our cash needs depends on cash on hand, receipt of additional capital, including possible additional borrowings, and receipt of cash from our subsidiaries by way of distributions, advances or cash payments. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on the financial condition and operating performance of our subsidiaries, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. The senior credit agreement governing our indebtedness restricts our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from the disposition. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds which we could realize from them and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. Restrictive covenants in our debt instruments may limit our ability to engage in certain transactions and may diminish our ability to make payments on our indebtedness. The senior credit agreement governing our indebtedness contains various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. The covenants contained in the senior credit agreement limit our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends on or make other distributions on or repurchase capital stock or make other restricted payments, make investments and sell certain assets. Such restrictions in our debt instruments could result in us having to obtain the consent of our lenders in order to take certain actions. Recent disruptions in credit markets may prevent us from or make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain such 25 Table of Contents consents from our lenders. Our ability to expand our business or to address declines in our business may be limited if we are unable to obtain such consents. In addition, the senior credit agreement requires us to maintain a maximum first lien senior secured leverage ratio no greater than 3.90 to 1.00 if there are outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility. Our ability to meet this financial ratio can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not be able to meet this test at all. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the senior credit agreement. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the senior credit agreement, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the senior credit agreement to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under the senior credit agreement could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. Our subsidiaries have pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under the senior credit agreement. If the lenders under the senior credit agreement accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we may not have sufficient assets to repay amounts borrowed under the senior credit agreement as well as their other indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on the value of our stock. The terms of our senior credit agreement limit the ability of BCP Crystal and its subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise transfer their assets to us. Our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries and our ability to pay dividends is dependent on the earnings and the distribution of funds from our subsidiaries. However, the terms of our senior credit agreement limit the ability of BCP Crystal and its subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise transfer their assets to us. Accordingly, our ability to pay dividends on our stock is similarly limited. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 26 Table of Contents 