D. Risk Factors In addition to the other information presented in this Annual Report on Form 20-F, the following should be considered carefully in evaluating us and our business. This Annual Report on Form 20-F contains forward-looking statements that involve risk and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking 12 statements. Factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 20-F. Properties in which the Company has or is acquiring an interest in, are all currently at the exploration stage. The activities of the Company are speculative due to the high risk nature of its business which is the acquisition, financing, exploration and development of mining properties. The following risk factors, which are not exhaustive, could materially affect the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations and could cause actual events to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements relating to the Company. These risks include but are not limited to the following: Operations and Mineral Exploration Risks The Company operates in the resource industry, which is highly speculative, and has certain inherent exploration risks which could have a negative effect on the Company’s operations. Resource exploration is a speculative business, characterized by a number of significant risks including, among other things, unprofitable efforts resulting not only from the failure to discover mineral deposits but from finding mineral deposits which, though present, are insufficient in quantity and quality to return a profit from production. The marketability of minerals acquired or discovered by the Company may be affected by numerous factors which are beyond the control of the Company and which cannot be accurately predicted, such as market fluctuations, the proximity and capacity of milling facilities, mineral markets and processing equipment, and such other factors such as government regulations, including regulations relating to royalties, allowable production, importing and exporting of minerals, and environment protection. Any one or a combination of these factors may result in the Company not receiving an adequate return on its investment capital. The Company does not have any mineral reserves or water rights. The Company is at the exploration stage on all of its properties and is engaged in ongoing engineering work in order to determine if any economic deposits exist on its properties. The Company may expend substantial funds in exploring certain of its properties only to abandon them and lose its entire expenditure on the properties if no commercial or economically viable quantities of minerals are found. Even in the event that commercial quantities of minerals are discovered, the exploration properties might not be brought into commercial production. Finding commercially viable mineral deposits is dependent on a number of factors, not the least of which is the technical skill of exploration personnel involved. The commercial viability of a mineral deposit once discovered is also dependent on a number of factors, some of which are the particular attributes of the deposit, such as size, grade, amenability to metallurgical processing, and proximity to infrastructure, availability of power and water, as well as metal prices. The Company’s Caspiche project is located in the Atacama region of Northern Chile which has been experiencing drought conditions for an extended period resulting in considerable stress on available water resources. In addition, the Chilean government is currently reviewing regulations regarding water rights and there is greater uncertainty regarding the potential to secure water rights in the area. While the Company believes that it has discovered significant quantities of water at the Peñas Blancas exploration concessions which may be adequate for the potential development options identified in the PEA Report, it does not have any water rights. In order to obtain water rights it is required to make applications to various government departments including the General Directorate of Water Resources and the Ministry of Public Land of the Chilean government (“BBNN”). In the event that water rights are secured, the ability to extract and use such water is subject to further permitting appraisal from the authorities and there is no guarantee that such permits will be received. The Company is also continuing to pursue other avenues for acquisition of water resources. The Company is an exploration stage company with no history of pre-tax profit and no income from its operations. There can be no assurance that the Company’s operations will be profitable in the future. There is no certainty that the studies conducted by the Company will result in a commercially viable mining operation. No assurance can be given that any particular level of recovery of mineral reserves will in fact be realized or that the identified mineral deposit will ever qualify as a commercially mineable (or viable) mineral deposit which can be legally and economically exploited. There can be no assurance that minerals recovered in small scale tests or the results of pilot plant operations and metallurgical testwork will be duplicated in large scale tests under on-site conditions or in production. If the Company is unsuccessful in its development efforts, the Company may be forced to acquire additional projects or cease operations. The Company is required to make advance royalty payments and perform certain other obligations to maintain its interest in the Caspiche project. If the Company is unable to fulfill the requirements of these agreements, including the requirement to make advance royalty payments and commence commercial production within a fixed period, its interest in its Caspiche project could be lost. 13 The Company’s operations are subject to the inherent risk associated with mineral exploration, development and production activities. Mineral exploration development and production activities generally involve a high degree of risk, which even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. Environmental hazards, industrial accidents, unusual or unexpected geological formations, fires, power outages, labor disruptions, flooding, explosions, cave-ins, land-slides, the inability to obtain suitable or adequate machinery, equipment or labor, and the inability to meet ongoing requirements of various permits required for operations are other risks involved in the operation of mines and the conduct of exploration, development and production programs. Operations and activities in which we have a direct or indirect interest will be subject to all the hazards and risks normally incidental to exploration, development and production of precious and base metals, any of which could result in work stoppages, damage to or destruction of mines, if any, and other producing facilities, damage to life and property, environmental damage and possible legal liability for any or all damage. The occurrence of such risks could cause significant delays or cancelation in the conduct of the Company’s activities which could negatively impact profitability. The Company’s operations contain significant uninsured risks which could negatively impact future profitability as the Company maintains no insurance against its operations. The Company’s development of its mineral properties contain certain risks, including unexpected or unusual operating conditions including rock bursts, cave-ins, flooding, fire and earthquakes. It is not always possible to insure against such risks. The Company currently maintains general liability and director and officer insurance but no insurance against its properties or operations. The Company may decide to take out such insurance in the future if such insurance is available at economically viable rates. The Company has not surveyed any of its properties, has no guarantee of clear title to its mineral properties and the Company could lose title and ownership of its properties which would have a negative effect on the Company’s operations and valuation. The Company has only done a preliminary legal survey of the boundaries of some of its properties, and therefore, in accordance with the laws of the jurisdictions in which these properties are situated, their existence and area could be in doubt. If title is disputed, the Company will have to defend its ownership through the courts. In the event of an adverse judgment, the Company would lose its property rights. Some of the Company’s exploration concessions associated with its Caspiche project overlap exploration concessions held by other parties and entitlement to such concessions has not yet been determined and is not assured. Some of the land over which the Company holds exploration concessions may be subject to claims of indigenous populations which have not been resolved. The Company has secured an easement for surface rights for most of the area required for the potential development of Caspiche however the easement is being challenged in court and there is no guarantee that the Company will be successful in maintaining its rights under the easement. In addition the Company will be required to negotiate agreements with indigenous communities over certain areas required for potential development of its project and there is no certainty that such negotiations will be successful. A shortage of equipment and supplies could adversely affect the Company’s ability to operate its business. The Company is dependent on various supplies and equipment to carry out its mineral exploration and, if warranted, development operations. Any shortage of such supplies, equipment and parts could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to carry out its operations and therefore limit or increase the cost of potential future production. 14 Changes in the market price of gold, copper, silver and other metals, which in the past has fluctuated widely, would affect the future profitability of the Company’s planned operations and financial condition. The Company’s long-term viability and future profitability depend, in large part, upon the market price of gold, copper, silver and other metals and minerals from potential future production from its mineral properties. The market price of gold, copper, silver and other metals is volatile and is impacted by numerous factors beyond the Company’s control, including: ● expectations with respect to the rate of inflation; ● the relative strength of the U.S. dollar and certain other currencies; ● interest rates; ● global or regional political or economic conditions; ● supply and demand for jewelry and industrial products containing metals; ● sales by central banks and other holders, speculators and producers of gold, silver, copper and other metals in response to any of the above factors; and ● any executive order curtailing the production or sale of gold, silver or copper. The Company cannot predict the effect of these factors on metal prices. A decrease in the market price of gold, silver, copper and other metals could affect the commercial viability of the Company’s properties and its anticipated development of such properties in the future. Lower gold and other commodity prices could also adversely affect the Company’s ability to finance exploration and development of its properties. Land reclamation requirements for the Company’s properties may be burdensome and expensive. Although variable depending on location and the governing authority, land reclamation requirements are generally imposed on mineral exploration companies (as well as companies with mining operations) in order to minimize long term effects of land disturbance. Reclamation may include requirements to: ● control dispersion of potentially deleterious effluents; ● treat ground and surface water to drinking water standards; and ● reasonably re-establish pre-disturbance land forms and vegetation. In order to carry out reclamation obligations imposed on the Company in connection with its potential development activities, the Company must allocate financial resources that might otherwise be spent on further exploration and development programs. If the Company is required to carry out unanticipated reclamation work, its financial position could be adversely affected. Regulations and pending legislation governing issues involving climate change could result in increased operating costs, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. A number of governments or governmental bodies have introduced or are contemplating regulatory changes in response to various climate change interest groups and the potential impact of climate change. Legislation and increased regulation regarding climate change could impose significant costs on the Company, and its suppliers, including costs related to increased energy requirements, capital equipment, environmental monitoring and reporting and other costs to comply with such regulations. Any adopted future climate change regulations could also negatively impact the Company’s ability to compete with companies situated in areas not subject to such limitations. Given the emotion, political significance and uncertainty around the impact of climate change and how it should be dealt with, the Company cannot predict how legislation and regulation will affect our financial condition, operating performance and ability to compete. Furthermore, even without such regulation, increased awareness and any adverse publicity in the global marketplace about potential impacts on climate change by the Company or other companies in its industry could harm its reputation. The potential physical impacts of climate change on the Company’s operations are highly uncertain, and would be particular to the geographic circumstances in areas in which it operates. These may include changes in rainfall and storm patterns and intensities, water shortages, changing sea levels and changing temperatures. These impacts may adversely impact the cost, potential production and financial performance of the Company’s operations. 15 The natural resource industry is highly competitive, which could restrict the Company’s growth. The Company competes with other exploration resource companies, which have similar operations, and many competitors have operations, financial resources and industry experience greater than those of the Company. This may place the Company at a disadvantage in acquiring, exploring and developing properties. Such companies could outbid the Company for potential projects or produce minerals at lower costs which would have a negative effect on the Company’s operations. Mineral operations are subject to market forces outside of the Company’s control which could negatively impact the Company’s operations. The marketability of minerals is affected by numerous factors beyond the control of the entity involved in their mining and processing. These factors include market fluctuations, government regulations relating to prices, taxes, royalties, allowable production, imports, exports and supply and demand. One or more of these risk elements could have an impact on costs of an operation and if significant enough, reduce the profitability of the operation and threaten its continuation. The Company is subject to substantial environmental requirements which could cause a restriction or suspension of Company operations. The current and anticipated future operations of the Company require permits from various governmental authorities and such operations are and will be governed by laws and regulations governing various elements of the mining industry. The Company’s development activities in Chile are subject to various federal and local laws governing land use, the protection of the environment, prospecting, development, production, exports, taxes, labour standards, occupational health, waste disposal, toxic substances, and other matters. Such operations and exploration activities are also subject to substantial regulation under these laws by governmental agencies and may require that the Company obtain permits from various governmental agencies. Exploration generally requires one form of permit while development and production operations require additional permits. There can be no assurance that all permits which the Company may require for future exploration or possible future development will be obtainable on reasonable terms. In addition, future changes in applicable laws or regulations could result in changes in legal requirements or in the terms of existing permits applicable to the Company or its properties. This could have a negative effect on the Company’s exploration activities or its ability to develop its properties. The Company is also subject to environmental regulations, which require the Company to minimize impacts upon air, water, soils, vegetation and wildlife, as well as historical and cultural resources, if present. The Company is required to comply with the provisions of ILO 169 which sets out requirements for consultation with indigenous communities. Compliance with ILO 169 requirements could result in delays and significant additional expense in obtaining the necessary approvals or agreement with indigenous communities to advance the Caspiche project. In Chile, exploration activities require an environmental impact declaration, while mining activities require a significantly more detailed environmental impact evaluation under the “SEIA” system. These documents are presented to the government entity (Conama or Corena) who then consult with other government departments and arrange public comment before approving or imposing limits on proposed activities. As the Company is at the exploration stage, the disturbance of the environment is limited however if exploration activities result in negative effects upon the environment, government agencies will usually require the Company to provide remedial actions to correct the negative effects. The requirements of Government that can be imposed on planned operations as a result of the SEIA evaluation can require additional facilities, restrictions on operations, additional capital and operating expenditure and additional regulatory requirements that cannot be reasonably forecast by the Company prior to assessment. In addition various parties can commence court challenges to any permits or authorizations granted by the authorities. Such court challenges if successful can result in significant delays and increased costs for potential project development. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permitting requirements may result in enforcement actions, including orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities causing operations to cease or be curtailed, and may include corrective measures requiring capital expenditures, installation of additional equipment or other remedial actions. 16 The Company's property interests in foreign countries are subject to risks from political and economic instability in those countries. Exploration in foreign jurisdictions exposes the Company to risks that may not otherwise be experienced if all operations were domestic. The risks include, but are not limited to: military repression, extreme fluctuations in currency exchange rates, labour instability or militancy, mineral title irregularities and high rates of inflation. In addition, changes in mining or investment policies or shifts in political attitude in foreign countries in which we operate may adversely affect our business. We may be affected in varying degrees by government regulation with respect to restrictions on production, price controls, export controls, income taxes, expropriation of property, maintenance of claims, environmental legislation, land use, land claims of local people, water use and mine safety. The effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted. Political risks may adversely affect the Company’s existing assets and operations. The Company does not maintain and does not intend to purchase political risk insurance at this time. Real and perceived political risk in some countries may also affect the Company’s ability to finance exploration programs and attract joint venture partners, and future mine development opportunities. Financing Risks The Company has a history of losses and expects losses to continue for the foreseeable future and will require additional equity financings, which will cause dilution to existing shareholders. The Company has limited financial resources and has no operating cash flow. As of December 31, 2014, the end of the last financial year, the Company had incurred accumulated losses totalling approximately $261 million. Continued development efforts will require additional capital to maintain and advance the studies on the Company’s Caspiche project. Additionally, development of the Company’s Caspiche project would require significant additional capital which the Company may be unable to access. The Company has been required to raise funds through the sale of its common shares and has no current plans to obtain financing through means other than equity financing however should it determine to proceed with development of its properties it may be required to obtain loans or other sources of finance for such development. However, the Company may not be able to obtain additional equity or other financing on reasonable terms, or at all. If the Company is unable to obtain sufficient financing in the future, it might have to dramatically slow development efforts and/or lose control of its Caspiche project. If equity financing is required, then such financings could result in significant dilution to existing or prospective shareholders. These financings may be on terms less favourable to the Company than those obtained previously. The Company may be subject to risks relating to the global economy. Global financial conditions have been subject to volatility and access to public financing has been negatively impacted. These conditions could, among other things, make it more difficult for the Company to obtain, or increase its cost of obtaining, capital and financing for its operations. Access to additional capital may not be available to the Company on terms acceptable to it, or at all. The Company is also exposed to liquidity risks in meeting its operating and capital expenditure requirements in instances where cash positions are unable to be maintained or appropriate financing is unavailable. These factors may impact the ability of the Company to obtain loans and other credit facilities in the future and, if obtained, on terms favourable to the Company. If these increased levels of volatility and market turmoil continue, the Company’s operations could be adversely impacted and the trading price of the common shares could be adversely affected. 17 The Company has a lack of cash flow sufficient to sustain operations and does not expect to begin receiving operating revenue in the foreseeable future. The Company’s properties have not advanced to the commercial production stage and the Company has no history of earnings or cash flow from operations. The Company has paid no dividends on its common shares since incorporation and does not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. Historically, the only source of funds available to the Company has been through the sale of its common shares. Any future additional equity financing would cause dilution to current shareholders. If the Company does not have sufficient capital for its operations, management would be forced to reduce or discontinue its activities, which would have a negative effect on the value of its securities. The Company operates in foreign countries and is subject to currency fluctuations which could have a negative effect on the Company’s operating results. The Company’s operations at December 31, 2014 were located in Chile which makes it subject to foreign currency fluctuation as the Company’s accounts are maintained in Canadian dollars while certain expenses are numerated in U.S. Dollars, Australian Dollars, and Chilean Pesos. Such fluctuations may adversely affect the Company’s financial position and results. Management may not take any steps to address foreign currency fluctuations that will eliminate all adverse effects and, accordingly, the Company may suffer losses due to adverse foreign currency fluctuations. Risks Relating to an Investment in the Common Shares of the Company The market for the Company’s common shares has been subject to volume and price volatility which could negatively affect a shareholder’s ability to buy or sell the Company’s common shares. The market for the common shares of the Company may be highly volatile for reasons both related to the performance of the Company, or events pertaining to the industry (i.e. mineral price fluctuation/high production costs/accidents) as well as factors unrelated to the Company or its industry such as economic recessions and changes to legislation in the countries in which it operates. In particular, market demand for products incorporating minerals in their manufacture fluctuates from one business cycle to the next, resulting in change in demand for the mineral and an attendant change in the price for the mineral. In the last five financial years, the price of the Company’s common shares has fluctuated between $0.53 and $9.32. The Company’s common shares can be expected to continue to be subject to volatility in both price and volume arising from market expectations, announcements and press releases regarding the Company’s business, and changes in estimates and evaluations by securities analysts or other events or factors. In recent years the securities markets in the U.S. and Canada have experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market price of securities of many companies, particularly small-capitalization companies such as the Company, have experienced wide fluctuations that have not necessarily been related to the operations, performances, underlying asset values, or prospects of such companies. For these reasons, the Company’s common shares can also be subject to volatility resulting from purely market forces over which the Company will have no control such as that experienced recently resulting from the economic downturn due to the on-going economic uncertainty in the United States, Europe and elsewhere around the globe. Further, despite the existence of a market for trading the Company’s common shares in Canada, the U.S. and Germany, shareholders of the Company may be unable to sell significant quantities of common shares in the public trading markets without a significant reduction in the price of the common shares. The Company is dependent upon key management, the absence of which would have a negative effect on the Company’s operations. The Company depends on the business and technical expertise of its management and key personnel, including Wendell Zerb, President and Chief Executive Officer, Bryce Roxburgh, Co-Chairman, Yale Simpson, Co-Chairman and Cecil Bond, Chief Financial Officer. There is little possibility that this dependence will decrease in the near term. As the Company’s operations expand, additional general management resources will be required. The Company may not be able to attract and retain additional qualified personnel and this would have a negative effect on the Company’s operations. The Company has entered into services agreements with Wendell Zerb, Bryce Roxburgh, Yale Simpson and Cecil Bond and some of its senior personnel. The Company maintains no “key man” life insurance on any members of its management or directors. 18 Certain officers and directors may have conflicts of interest, which could have a negative effect on the Company’s operations. Certain of the directors and officers of the Company are also directors and/or officers and/or shareholders of other natural resource companies. While the Company is engaged in the business of exploiting mineral properties, such associations may give rise to conflicts of interest from time to time. The directors of the Company are required by law to act honestly and in good faith with a view to uphold the best interests of the Company and to disclose any interest that they may have in any project or opportunity of the Company. If a conflict of interest arises at a meeting of the board of directors, any director in a conflict must disclose his interest and abstain from voting on such matter. In determining whether or not the Company will participate in any project or opportunity, the directors will primarily consider the degree of risk to which the Company may be exposed and its financial position at the time. The Company is likely a "passive foreign investment company" which may have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences for U.S. shareholders U.S. shareholders of common shares should be aware that the Company believes it was classified as a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) during the tax year ended December 31, 2014, and may be a PFIC in future tax years. If the Company is a PFIC for any year during a U.S. shareholder’s holding period of the common shares, then such U.S. shareholder generally will be required to treat any gain realized upon a disposition of common shares, or any “excess distribution” received on its common shares, as ordinary income, and to pay an interest charge on a portion of such gain or distribution, unless the shareholder makes a timely and effective "qualified electing fund" election (“QEF Election”) or a "mark-to-market" election with respect to the common shares. A U.S. shareholder who makes a QEF Election generally must report on a current basis its share of the Company's net capital gain and ordinary earnings for any year in which the Company is a PFIC, whether or not the Company distributes any amounts to its shareholders. However, U.S. shareholders should be aware that there can be no assurance that the Company will satisfy the record keeping requirements that apply to a qualified electing fund, or that the Company will supply U.S. shareholders with information that such U.S. shareholders require to report under the QEF Election rules, in the event that the Company is a PFIC and a U.S. shareholder wishes to make a QEF Election. Thus, U.S. shareholders may not be able to make a QEF Election with respect to their common shares. A U.S. shareholder who makes a mark-to-market election generally must include as ordinary income each year the excess of the fair market value of the common shares over the taxpayer’s adjusted tax basis therein. This paragraph is qualified in its entirety by the discussion below under the heading “Certain United States Federal Income Tax Consequences.” Each U.S. shareholder should consult its own tax advisors regarding the PFIC rules and the U.S. federal income tax consequences of the acquisition, ownership, and disposition of common shares. The Company does not intend to pay dividends. The Company has not paid out any cash dividends to date and has no plans to do so in the immediate future. As a result, an investor’s return on investment will be solely determined by his or her ability to sell common shares in the secondary market. Increased costs and compliance risks as a result of being a public company. Legal, accounting and other expenses associated with public company reporting requirements have increased significantly in the past few years. The Company anticipates that general and administrative costs associated with regulatory compliance will continue to increase with ongoing compliance requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended (“Sarbanes-Oxley”), the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, as well as any new rules implemented by the SEC, Canadian Securities Administrators, the NYSE MKT and the TSX in the future. These rules and regulations have significantly increased the Company’s legal and financial compliance costs and made some activities more time-consuming and costly. There can be no assurance that the Company will continue to effectively meet all of the requirements of these regulations, including Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 and National Instrument 52-109 of the Canadian Securities Administrators (“NI 52-109”). Any failure to effectively implement internal controls, or to resolve difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm the Company’s operating results, cause the Company to fail to meet reporting obligations or result in management being required to give a qualified assessment of the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting or the Company’s independent auditors providing an adverse opinion regarding management’s assessment. Any such result could cause investors to lose confidence in the Company’s reported financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of the common shares. These rules and regulations have made it more difficult and more expensive for the Company to obtain director and officer liability 19 insurance, and the Company may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage in the future. As a result, it may be more difficult for the Company to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on its board of directors or as executive officers. If the Company fails to maintain the adequacy of its internal control over financial reporting, the Company’s ability to provide accurate consolidated financial statements and comply with the requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley and/or NI 52-109 could be impaired, which could cause the Company’s stock price to decrease. Differences in United States and Canadian reporting of reserves and resources. The disclosure in this Annual Report on Form 20-F, including the documents incorporated herein by reference, uses terms that comply with reporting standards in Canada. The terms “mineral resource”, “measured mineral resource”, “indicated mineral resource” and “inferred mineral resource” are defined in and required to be used by the Company pursuant to NI 43-101; however, these terms are not defined terms under SEC Industry Guide 7 and normally are not permitted to be used in reports and registration statements filed with the SEC. Investors are cautioned not to assume that any part or all of mineral deposits in these categories will ever be converted into reserves. “Inferred mineral resources” have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence, and as to their economic and legal feasibility. It cannot be assumed that all or any part of the measured mineral resources, indicated mineral resources, or inferred mineral resources will ever be upgraded to a higher category. Under Canadian rules, estimates of inferred mineral resources may not form the basis of feasibility, pre-feasibility studies or other economic studies, except in rare cases. Investors are cautioned not to assume that all or any part of an inferred mineral resource exists or is economically or legally mineable. Disclosure of “contained ounces” in a resource is permitted disclosure under Canadian regulations; however, the SEC normally only permits issuers to report mineralization that does not constitute “reserves” by SEC Industry Guide 7 standards as in place tonnage and grade without reference to unit measures. Further, the terms “Mineral Reserve”, “Proven Mineral Reserve” and “Probable Mineral Reserve” are Canadian mining terms as defined in accordance with NI 43-101 and the CIM Standards. These definitions differ from the definitions in SEC Industry Guide 7. Under SEC Industry Guide 7 standards, a “final” or “bankable” feasibility study is required to report reserves, the three-year historical average price is used in any reserve or cash flow analysis to designate reserves and all necessary permits or governmental authorizations must be filed with the appropriate governmental authority. Accordingly, information contained in this Annual Report on Form 20-F and the documents incorporated by reference herein containing descriptions of the Company’s mineral deposits may not be comparable to similar information made public by United States companies subject to the reporting and disclosure requirements under the United States federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder. U.S. investors may not be able to enforce their civil liabilities against the Company or its directors, controlling persons and officers. It may be difficult to bring and enforce suits against the Company in the United States. The Company is a corporation incorporated in British Columbia under the Business Corporations Act. A majority of the Company’s directors and officers are residents of Canada and other countries and all of the Company’s assets and its subsidiaries are located outside of the U.S. Consequently, it may be difficult for U.S. investors to effect service of process in the U.S. upon those directors or officers who are not residents of the U.S., or to realize in the U.S. upon judgments of U.S. courts predicated upon civil liabilities under U.S. securities laws. There is substantial doubt whether an original action could be brought successfully in Canada against any of such persons or the Company predicated solely upon such civil liabilities under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended. As a “foreign private issuer”, the Company is exempt from Section 14 proxy rules and Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company is a “foreign private issuer” as defined in Rule 3b-4 under the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “U.S. Exchange Act”). Equity securities of the Company are accordingly exempt from Sections 14(a), 14(b), 14(c), 14(f) and 16 of the U.S. Exchange Act pursuant to Rule 3a12-3 of the U.S. Exchange Act. Therefore, the Company is not required to file a Schedule 14A proxy statement in relation to the annual meeting of shareholders. The submission of proxy and annual meeting of shareholder information on Form 6-K may result in shareholders having less complete and timely information in connection with shareholder actions. The exemption from 20 Section 16 rules regarding reports of beneficial ownership and purchases and sales of common shares by insiders and restrictions on insider trading in our securities may result in shareholders having less data and there being fewer restrictions on insiders’ activities in our securities. 