D. Risk Factors An investment in the common shares of the Company must be considered speculative due to the nature of the Company’s business and the present stage of exploration of its non producing mineral properties. The Company is subject to known and unknown risks which may adversely affect its performance. In particular, the following risk factors, which should not be regarded as a list of all potential risk factors, apply: Risks Associated with the Company’s Operations and Mineral Exploration The Company is Involved in the Resource Industry which is Highly Speculative and has Certain Inherent Exploration Risks which Could have a Negative Effect on the Company’s Operations - Resource exploration is a speculative business, characterized by a number of significant risks including, among other things, unprofitable efforts resulting not only from the failure to discover mineral deposits but from finding mineral deposits which, though present, are insufficient in quantity and quality to return a profit from production. The marketability of minerals acquired or discovered by the Company may be affected by numerous factors which are beyond the control of the Company and which cannot be accurately predicted, such as market fluctuations, the proximity and capacity of milling facilities, mineral markets and processing equipment, and such other factors as government regulations, including regulations relating to royalties, allowable production, importing and exporting of minerals, and environment protection, the combination of which factors may result in the Company not receiving an adequate return on investment capital. The Company Has No Known Reserves and No Economic Reserves May Exist on Its Properties Which Would have a Negative Effect on the Company’s Operations and Valuation - Despite exploration work on its mineral claims, no known bodies of commercial ore or economic deposits have been established on any of the Company’s mineral properties. In addition, the Company is at the exploration stage on all of its properties and substantial additional work will be required in order to determine if any economic deposits occur on the Company’s properties. The Company may expend substantial funds in exploring its properties 10 only to abandon them and lose its entire expenditures on that property if no commercial or economic quantities of minerals are found, similar to the Company’s recent decision to drop the option and abandon its expenditures on the Papagallos project. Even in the event commercial quantities of minerals are discovered, the exploration properties might not be brought into a state of commercial production. Finding mineral deposits is dependent on a number of factors, not the least of which is the technical skill of exploration personnel involved. The commercial viability of a mineral deposit once discovered is also dependent on a number of factors, some of which are particular attributes of the deposit, such as size, grade and proximity to infrastructure, as well as metal prices. Most of these factors are beyond the control of the entity conducting such mineral exploration. The Company is an exploration stage company with no history of pre-tax profit and no income from its operations. There can be no assurance that the Company’s operations will be profitable in the future. There is no certainty that the expenditures to be made by the Company in the exploration of its properties as described herein will result in discoveries of mineralized material in commercial quantities. Most exploration projects do not result in the discovery of commercially mineable deposits and no assurance can be given that any particular level of recovery of mineral reserves will in fact be realized or that any identified mineral deposit will ever qualify as a commercially mineable (or viable) mineral deposit which can be legally and economically exploited. There can be no assurance that minerals recovered in small scale tests will be duplicated in large scale tests under on-site conditions or in production. If the Company is unsuccessful in its exploration efforts, the Company may be forced to acquire additional projects or cease operations. The Company does not Own Certain of its Properties but is Required to Make Option Payments and Exploration Expenditures to Earn its Interest. If the Company is Unable to Make the Required Outlays, its Entire Investment Could Be Lost - Certain of the Company’s properties, including its most advanced project, La Cabeza, are currently under option to the Company. The Company has no ownership interest in these properties until it meets all required property expenditures, cash payments, and common share issuances. If the Company is unable to fulfill the requirements of these option agreements, it is likely that the Company would be considered in default of the agreements and the option agreements could be terminated resulting in the complete loss of all expenditures made on the property and required option payments made on the properties to that date. The Company Conducts Mineral Operations in Argentina which as a Developing Economy has Special Risks which could have a Negative Effect on the Company’s Operations and Valuation - The Company’s exploration operations are currently located in Argentina and Chile. Argentina is currently experiencing economic instability associated with unfavorable exchange rates, high unemployment and inability to repay foreign debts. These factors could pose serious potential problems associated with the Company’s ability to raise additional capital which will be required to explore and/or develop any of the Company’s mineral properties in Argentina. As a developing economy, operating in Argentina contains certain additional risks, including changes to or invalidation of government mining regulations; expropriation or revocation of land or property rights; changes in foreign ownership rights; changes in foreign taxation rates; corruption; uncertain political climate; terrorist actions or war; lack of a stable economic climate. The presence of any of these conditions could have a negative effect on the Company’s operations and could lead to the Company being unable to exploit, or losing outright, its properties in Argentina. This would have a negative effect on the Company’s operations and valuation. 11 Argentina’s Economy has a History of Instability and Future Instability and Uncertainty Could Negatively Effect the Company’s Ability to Operate in the Country - Since 1995, Argentina’s economy has suffered periods of instability, which include high inflation, capital flight, default on international debts, and high government budget deficits. Results of these problems included domestic disturbances and riots, government resignations and instability in the currency and banking system. Such disorder in the future could make it difficult or impossible for the Company to operate effectively in the country which may require the Company to reduce or suspend its operations in Argentina. The Company’s Operations Contain Significant Uninsured Risks which Could Negatively Impact Future Profitability as the Company Maintains No Insurance Against its Operations - The Company’s exploration of its mineral properties contain certain risks, including unexpected or unusual operating conditions including rock bursts, cave-ins, flooding, fire and earthquakes. It is not always possible to insure against such risks. The Company currently maintains no insurance against its properties or operations and may decide to not take out any such insurance in the future or such insurance may not be available at economic rates or at all. Should such events arise, they could reduce or eliminate the Company’s assets and shareholder equity as well as result in increased costs and a decline in the value of the Company’s securities. The Company Has Not Surveyed Any of Its Properties, has No Guarantee of Clear Title to its Mineral Properties and the Company Could Lose Title and Ownership of Its Properties which would have a Negative Effect on the Company’s Operations and Valuation - The Company has only done a preliminary legal survey of the boundaries of some of its properties, and therefore, in accordance with the laws of the jurisdictions in which these properties are situated, their existence and area could be in doubt. The Company has not obtained formal title reports on any of its properties and title may be in doubt. If title is disputed, the Company will have to defend its ownership through the courts. In the event of an adverse judgment, the Company would lose its property rights. The Natural Resource Industry is Highly Competitive, which could Restrict the Company’s Growth - The Company competes with other developmental resource companies, which have similar operations, and many competitors have operations and financial resources and industry experience greater than those of the Company. This may place the Company at a disadvantage at acquiring, exploring and developing properties. Such corporations could outbid the Company for potential projects or produce minerals at lower costs which would have a negative effect on the Company’s operations. Mineral Operations are Subject to Market Forces Outside of the Company’s Control which could Negatively Impact the Company’s Operations - The marketability of minerals is affected by numerous factors beyond the control of the entity involved in their mining and processing. These factors include market fluctuations, government regulations relating to prices, taxes royalties, allowable production, import, exports and supply and demand. One or more of these risk elements could have an impact on costs of an operation and if significant enough, reduce the profitability of the operation and threaten its continuation. The Company is Subject to Substantial Environmental Requirements which could cause a Restriction or Suspension of Company Operations - The current and anticipated future 12 operations of the Company require permits from various governmental authorities and such operations are and will be governed by laws and regulations governing various elements of the mining industry. The Company’s exploration activities in Argentina and Chile are subject to various Federal, Provincial and local laws governing land use, the protection of the environment, prospecting, development, production, exports, taxes, labor standards, occupational health, waste disposal, toxic substances, and other matters. Such operations and exploration activities are also subject to substantial regulation under these laws by governmental agencies and may require that the Company obtain permits from various governmental agencies. Exploration generally requires one form of permit while development and production operations require additional permits. There can be no assurance that all permits which the Company may require for future exploration or possible future development will be obtainable on reasonable terms, or that future changes in applicable laws or regulations could result in changes in legal requirements or in the terms of existing permits applicable to the Company or its properties. This could have a negative effect on the Company’s exploration activities or its ability to develop its properties. The Company is also subject to environmental regulations, which require the Company to minimize impacts upon air, water, soils, vegetation and wildlife, as well as historical and cultural resources, if present. In Argentina, prior to conducting operations, miners must submit an environmental impact report to the provincial government, describing the proposed operation and the methods to be used to prevent environmental damage. Approval must be received from the applicable bureau and/or department before exploration can begin, which will also conduct ongoing monitoring of operations. As the Company is at the exploration stage, the disturbance of the environment is limited and the costs of complying with environmental regulations are minimal. However, if operations result in negative effects upon the environment, government agencies will usually require the Company to provide remedial actions to correct the negative effects. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permitting requirements may result in enforcement actions, including orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities causing operations to cease or be curtailed, and may include corrective measures requiring capital expenditures, installation of additional equipment or remedial actions. Financing Risks The Company Has a History of Net Losses and Expects Losses to Continue for the Foreseeable Future and Will Require Additional Equity Financings, which will Cause Dilution to Existing Shareholders - The Company has limited financial resources and has no operating cash flow. As of the end of the last fiscal year dated December 31, 2005, the Company’s historical net loss under US GAAP totaled ($22,533,425). The continued exploration efforts will require additional capital to help maintain and to expand exploration on the Company’s principal exploration properties. Additionally, if the Company decides to proceed with a full feasibility study on its La Cabeza project; substantial additional funds will be required to complete the study as well as to complete the acquisition of the project under its option agreements. The Company may not be able to obtain additional financing on reasonable terms, or at all. If the Company is unable to obtain sufficient financing, the Company might have to dramatically slow exploration efforts and/or lose control of its projects. The Company has historically obtained the preponderance of its financing through the issuance of equity, and the Company has no current plans to obtain financing through means other than equity financing. If 13 equity financing is required, then such financings could result in significant dilution to existing or prospective shareholders. These financings may be on terms less favorable to the Company than those obtained previously. The Company has a Lack of Cash Flow Sufficient to Sustain Operations and Does Not Expect to Begin Receiving Operating Revenue in the Foreseeable Future - None of the Company’s properties have advanced to the commercial production stage and the Company has no history of earnings or cash flow from operations. The Company has paid no dividends on its shares since incorporation and does not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. Historically, the only source of funds available to the company has been through the sale of its common shares. Any future additional equity financing would cause dilution to current stockholders. If the Company does not have sufficient capital for its operations, management would be forced to reduce or discontinue its activities, which would likely have a negative effect on the stock price. The Company Operates in Foreign Countries and is Subject to Currency Fluctuations which could have a Negative Effect on the Company’s Operating Results - While engaged in the business of exploring mineral properties, the Company’s operations are located in Argentina and Chile which makes it subject to foreign currency fluctuation, as the Company’s accounts are maintained in Canadian dollars while certain expenses are numerated in US dollars and the local currency. Such fluctuations may adversely affect the Company’s financial position and results. Management may not take any steps to address foreign currency fluctuations that will eliminate all adverse effects and, accordingly, the Company may suffer losses due to adverse foreign currency fluctuations. Risks Relating to an Investment in the Securities of the Company The Market for the Company’s Stock has Been Subject to Volume and Price Volatility which Could Negatively Effect a Shareholder’s Ability to Buy or Sell the Company’s Shares - The market for the common shares of the Company may be highly volatile for reasons both related to the performance of the Company or events pertaining to the industry (i.e. mineral price fluctuation/high production costs/accidents) as well as factors unrelated to the Company or its industry. In particular, market demand for products incorporating minerals in their manufacture fluctuates from one business cycle to the next, resulting in change of demand for the mineral and an attendant change in the price for the mineral. In the last 5 fiscal years, the price of the Company’s stock has fluctuated between $0.18 and $1.80. The Company’s common shares can be expected to continue to be subject to volatility in both price and volume arising from market expectations, announcements and press releases regarding the Company’s business, and changes in estimates and evaluations by securities analysts or other events or factors. In recent years the securities markets in the United States and Canada have experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market price of securities of many companies, particularly small-capitalization companies such as the Company, have experienced wide fluctuations that have not necessarily been related to the operations, performances, underlying asset values, or prospects of such companies. For these reasons, the Company’s common shares can also be expected to be subject to volatility resulting from purely market forces over which the Company will have no control. Further, despite the existence of a market for trading the Company’s common shares in Canada and Germany, stockholders of the Company may be unable to sell significant quantities of common shares in the public trading markets without a significant reduction in the price of the stock. 14 The Company has a Dependence Upon Key Management Employees, the Absence of Which Would Have a Negative Effect on the Company’s Operations - The Company strongly depends on the business and technical expertise of its management and key personnel, including Bryce Roxburgh, President, and Yale Simpson, Chairman. There is little possibility that this dependence will decrease in the near term. As the Company’s operations expand, additional general management resources will be required. The Company may not be able to attract and retain additional qualified personnel and this would have a negative effect on the Company’s operations. The Company has entered into formal services agreements with Bryce Roxburgh and Yale Simpson and some of its other officers. The Company maintains no “key man” life insurance on any members of its management or directors. Certain Officers and Directors May Have Conflicts of Interest, Which Could have a Negative Effect on the Company’s Operations - Certain of the directors and officers of the Company are also directors and/or officers and/or shareholders of other natural resource companies. While the Company is engaged in the business of exploiting mineral properties, such associations may give rise to conflicts of interest from time to time. The directors of the Company are required by law to act honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the Company and to disclose any interest that they may have in any project or opportunity of the Company. If a conflict of interest arises at a meeting of the board of directors, any director in a conflict must disclose his interest and abstain from voting on such matter. In determining whether or not the Company will participate in any project or opportunity, the directors will primarily consider the degree of risk to which the Company may be exposed and its financial position at the time. The Company Could be Deemed a Passive Foreign Investment Company Which Could have Negative Consequences for U.S. Investors - The Company could be classified as a Passive Foreign Investment Company (“PFIC”) under the United States tax code. If the Company is declared a PFIC, then owners of the Company’s common shares who are U.S. taxpayers generally will be required to treat any so-called "excess distribution" received on its common shares, or any gain realized upon a disposition of common shares, as ordinary income and to pay an interest charge on a portion of such distribution or gain, unless the taxpayer makes a qualified electing fund ("QEF") election or a mark-to-market election with respect to the Company’s shares. A U.S. taxpayer who makes a QEF election generally must report on a current basis its share of the Company’s net capital gain and ordinary earnings for any year in which the Company is classified as a PFIC, whether or not the Company distributes any amounts to its shareholders. U.S. Investors May Not Be Able to Enforce Their Civil Liabilities Against The Company or Its Directors, Controlling Persons and Officers - It may be difficult to bring and enforce suits against the Company. The Company is a corporation incorporated in British Columbia under the Business Corporations Act. A majority of the Company’s directors and officers are residents of Canada and all of the Company’s assets and its subsidiaries are located outside of the United States. Consequently, it may be difficult for United States investors to effect service of process in the United States upon those directors or officers who are not residents of the United States, or to realize in the United States upon judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities under United States securities laws. There is substantial doubt whether an original action could be brought successfully in Canada against any of such persons or the Company predicated solely upon such civil liabilities under the U.S. Securities Act. 15 Broker-Dealers May Be Discouraged From Effecting Transactions In The Company’s Common Shares Because They Are Considered Penny Stocks And Are Subject To The Penny Stock Rules - Rules 15g-1 through 15g-9 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, impose sales practice and disclosure requirements on NASD broker-dealers who make a market in "a penny stock". A penny stock generally includes any non-NASDAQ equity security that has a market price of less than US$5.00 per share. The additional sales practice and disclosure requirements imposed upon broker-dealers may discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in the Company’s shares, which could severely limit the market liquidity of the shares and impede the sale of the Company’s shares in the secondary market. Under the penny stock regulations, a broker-dealer selling penny stock to anyone other than an established customer or "accredited investor" (generally, an individual with net worth in excess of US$1,000,000 or an annual income exceeding US$200,000, or US$300,000 together with his or her spouse) must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and must receive the purchaser's written consent to the transaction prior to sale, unless the broker-dealer or the transaction is otherwise exempt. In addition, the penny stock regulations require the broker-dealer to deliver, prior to any transaction involving a penny stock, a disclosure schedule prepared by the US Securities and Exchange Commission relating to the penny stock market, unless the broker-dealer or the transaction is otherwise exempt. A broker-dealer is also required to disclose commissions payable to the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities. Finally, a broker-dealer is required to send monthly statements disclosing recent price information with respect to the penny stock held in a customer's account and information with respect to the limited market in penny stocks. As a “Foreign Private Issuer”, the Company is Exempt From the Section 14 Proxy Rules and Section 16 of the 1934 Securities Act - The submission of proxy and annual meeting of shareholder information (prepared to Canadian standards) on Form 6-K may result in shareholders having less complete and timely data. The exemption from Section 16 rules regarding sales of common shares by insiders may result in shareholders having less data. 