Item 1A. Risk Factors Many factors could have an effect on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We are subject to various risks resulting from changing economic, environmental, political, industry, business and financial conditions. The factors described below represent our principal risks. Risks Related to Our Business Our business is exposed to risks associated with the creditworthiness of our suppliers, customers and business partners and the industries in which our suppliers and customers participate are cyclical in nature, both of which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Some of the industries in which our end-use customers participate, such as the automotive, electrical, construction and textile industries, are cyclical in nature, thus posing a risk to us which is beyond our control. The industries in which these customers participate are highly competitive, to a large extent driven by end-use applications, and may experience overcapacity, all of which may affect demand for and pricing of our products. Our business is exposed to risks associated with the creditworthiness of our key suppliers, customers and business partners and reductions in demand for our customers’ products. The consequences of this could include the interruption of production at the facilities of our customers, the reduction, delay or cancellation of customer orders, delays in or the inability of customers to obtain financing to purchase our products, delays or interruptions of the supply of raw materials we purchase and bankruptcy of customers, suppliers or other creditors. The occurrence of any of these events may adversely affect our cash flow, profitability and financial condition. We are a company with operations around the world and are exposed to general economic, political and regulatory conditions and risks in the countries in which we have significant operations. We operate globally and have customers in many countries. We have major facilities primarily located in North America, Europe and Asia, and hold interests in ventures that operate in the US, Germany, China, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and Saudi Arabia. Our principal customers are similarly global in scope, and the prices of our most significant products are typically world market prices. Also, our operations in certain foreign jurisdictions are subject to nationalization and expropriation risk, and some of our contractual relationships within these 20 Table of Contents jurisdictions are subject to cancellation without full compensation for loss. Consequently, our business and financial results are affected, directly and indirectly, by world economic, political and regulatory conditions. In addition to the worldwide economic downturn, conditions such as the uncertainties associated with war, terrorist activities, civil unrest, epidemics, pandemics, weather, the effects of climate change or political instability in any of the countries in which we operate could affect us by causing delays or losses in the supply or delivery of raw materials and products, as well as increasing security costs, insurance premiums and other expenses. These conditions could also result in or lengthen economic recession in the United States, Europe, Asia or elsewhere. Failure to comply with applicable laws, rules, regulations or court decisions could expose us to fines, penalties and other costs. Moreover, changes in laws or regulations, such as unexpected changes in regulatory requirements (including import or export licensing requirements), or changes in the reporting requirements of the United States, German, European Union (“EU”) or Asian governmental agencies, could increase the cost of doing business in these regions. Any of these conditions may have an effect on our business and financial results as a whole and may result in volatile current and future prices for our securities, including our stock. Although we maintain insurance to cover risks associated with the operation of our business, there can be no assurance that the types of insurance we obtain or the level of coverage is adequate or that we will be able to continue to maintain our existing insurance or obtain comparable insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all. In particular, we have invested significant resources in China and other Asian countries. This region’s growth has slowed and we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits associated with our investment there and our financial results may be adversely impacted. We are subject to risks associated with the increased volatility in the prices and availability of key raw materials and energy. We purchase significant amounts of natural gas, ethylene and methanol from third parties for use in our production of basic chemicals in the Acetyl Intermediates segment, principally acetic acid, VAM and formaldehyde. We use a portion of our output of these chemicals, in turn, as inputs in the production of further products in all our business segments. We also purchase significant amounts of wood pulp for use in our production of cellulose acetate in the Consumer Specialties segment. The price of many of these items is dependent on the available supply of such item and may increase significantly as a result of production disruptions or strikes. In particular, to the extent of our vertical integration in the production of chemicals, shortages in the availability of raw material chemicals, such as natural gas, ethylene and methanol, can have an increased adverse impact on us as it can cause a shortage in intermediate and finished products. Such shortages would adversely impact our ability to produce certain products and increase our costs. We are exposed to volatility in the prices of our raw materials and energy. Although we have agreements providing for the supply of natural gas, ethylene, wood pulp, electricity and fuel oil, the contractual prices for these raw materials and energy vary with economic conditions and may be highly volatile. Factors that have caused volatility in our raw material prices in the past and which may do so in the future include: • Shortages of raw materials due to increasing demand, e.g., from growing uses or new uses; • Capacity constraints, e.g., due to construction delays, labor disruption or involuntary shutdowns; • The general level of business and economic activity; and • The direct or indirect effect of governmental regulation. If we are not able to fully offset the effects of higher energy and raw material costs, or if such commodities were unavailable, it could have a significant adverse effect on our financial results. 21 Table of Contents Failure to develop new products and production technologies or to implement productivity and cost reduction initiatives successfully may harm our competitive position. Our operating results depend significantly on the development of commercially viable new products, product grades and applications, as well as production technologies. If we are unsuccessful in developing new products, applications and production processes in the future, our competitive position and operating results may be negatively affected. For example, we recently announced our intention to construct new ethanol manufacturing facilities in China and the US that will utilize advanced technology developed with elements of our proprietary advanced acetyl platform. However, as we invest in the commercialization of this new process technology, we face the risk of unanticipated operational or commercialization difficulties, including an inability to obtain necessary permits or governmental approvals, failure of facilities or processes to operate in accordance with specifications or expectations, construction delays, cost over-runs, the unavailability of required materials and equipment and various other factors. Likewise, we have undertaken and are continuing to undertake initiatives in all business segments to improve productivity and performance and to generate cost savings. These initiatives may not be completed or beneficial or the estimated cost savings from such activities may not be realized. US federal regulations aimed at increasing security at certain chemical production plants and similar legislation that may be proposed in the future could, if passed into law, require us to relocate certain manufacturing activities and require us to alter or discontinue our production of certain chemical products, thereby increasing our operating costs and causing an adverse effect on our results of operations. Regulations are being implemented by the US Department of Homeland Security (“DHS”) aimed at decreasing the risk, and effects, of potential terrorist attacks on chemical plants located within the United States. Pursuant to these regulations, these goals would be accomplished in part through the requirement that certain high-priority facilities develop a prevention, preparedness, and response plan after conducting a vulnerability assessment. In addition, companies may be required to evaluate the possibility of using less dangerous chemicals and technologies as part of their vulnerability assessments and security plans and implementing feasible safer technologies in order to minimize potential damage to their facilities from a terrorist attack. We have registered certain of our sites with DHS in accordance with these regulations, have conducted vulnerability assessments at applicable sites and are awaiting DHS review and approval of security plans. Until that is done we cannot determine with certainty the costs associated with any security measures that DHS may require. Environmental regulations and other obligations relating to environmental matters could subject us to liability for fines, clean-ups and other damages, require us to incur significant costs to modify our operations and increase our manufacturing and delivery costs. Costs related to our compliance with environmental laws and regulations, and potential obligations with respect to contaminated sites may have a significant negative impact on our operating results. These obligations include the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (“CERCLA”) and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (“RCRA”) related to sites currently or formerly owned or operated by us, or where waste from our operations was disposed. We also have obligations related to the indemnity agreement contained in the demerger and transfer agreement between Celanese GmbH and Hoechst AG, also referred to as the demerger agreement, for environmental matters arising out of certain divestitures that took place prior to the demerger. Our operations are subject to extensive international, national, state, local and other supranational laws and regulations that govern environmental and health and safety matters, including CERCLA and RCRA. We incur substantial capital and other costs to comply with these requirements. If we violate any one of those laws or regulations, we can be held liable for substantial fines and other sanctions, including limitations on our operations as a result of changes to or revocations of environmental permits involved. Stricter environmental, safety and health laws, regulations and enforcement policies could result in substantial costs and liabilities to us or limitations on our operations and could subject our handling, manufacture, transport, use, reuse or disposal of substances or pollutants to more rigorous scrutiny than at present. One example of such regulations is the National Emission Standard for Hazardous Air Pollutants (“NESHAP”) for Industrial, Commercial, and Institutional Boilers, which was issued in 22 Table of Contents draft form by the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) on April 29, 2010. In its current draft form, these rules could require us to make significant capital expenditures to comply with stricter emissions requirements for industrial boilers at our facilities. Consequently, compliance with these laws and regulations could result in significant capital expenditures as well as other costs and liabilities, which could adversely affect our business and cause our operating results to be less favorable than expected. An adverse outcome in these claim procedures may negatively affect our earnings and cash flows in a particular reporting period. Changes in environmental, health and safety regulations in the jurisdictions where we manufacture and sell our products could lead to a decrease in demand for our products. New or revised governmental regulations and independent studies relating to the effect of our products on health, safety and the environment may affect demand for our products and the cost of producing our products. In June 2009, the California Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment (“OEHHA”) formally proposed to add VAM, along with 11 other substances, to a list of chemicals “known to the state of California” to cause cancer. OEHHA is required to maintain this list under the Safe Drinking Water and Toxic Enforcement Act of 1986 (“Proposition 65”). Celanese filed comments in opposition to the proposed listing because the listing was not based on a scientific review of the relevant data and the legal standard for adding VAM to the Proposition 65 list had not been met. Celanese also filed an action in the Sacramento County Superior Court seeking declaration that OEHHA’s proposed listing of VAM would be contrary to law. The Superior Court granted Celanese’s request for relief. An appeal filed by OEHHA is pending in the California Court of Appeal. We can provide no assurance that the Sacramento County Superior Court decision will be affirmed on appeal, or that VAM or other chemicals we produce will not be classified in other jurisdictions in a manner that would adversely affect demand for such products. We are a producer of formaldehyde and plastics derived from formaldehyde. Several studies have investigated possible links between formaldehyde exposure and various end points including leukemia. The International Agency for Research on Cancer (“IARC”), a private research agency, has reclassified formaldehyde from Group 2A (probable human carcinogen) to Group 1 (known human carcinogen) based on studies linking formaldehyde exposure to nasopharyngeal cancer, a rare cancer in humans. In October 2009, IARC also concluded based on a recent study that there is sufficient evidence for a casual association between formaldehyde and the development of leukemia. We expect the results of IARC’s review will be examined and considered by government agencies with responsibility for setting worker and environmental exposure standards and labeling requirements. Other pending initiatives will potentially require toxicological testing and risk assessments of a wide variety of chemicals, including chemicals used or produced by us. These initiatives include the Voluntary Children’s Chemical Evaluation Program, High Production Volume Chemical Initiative and expected modifications to the Toxic Substances Control Act (“TSCA”) in the United States, as well as various European Commission programs, such as the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (“REACh”). The above-mentioned assessments in the United States and Europe may result in heightened concerns about the chemicals involved and additional requirements being placed on the production, handling, labeling or use of the subject chemicals. Such concerns and additional requirements could also increase the cost incurred by our customers to use our chemical products and otherwise limit the use of these products, which could lead to a decrease in demand for these products. Such a decrease in demand would likely have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Our business exposes us to potential product liability claims and recalls, which could adversely affect our financial condition and performance. The development, manufacture and sales of specialty chemical products by us, including products produced for the food, beverage, cigarette, and pharmaceutical industries, involve an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims, product recalls, product seizures and related adverse publicity. A product liability claim or judgment against 23 Table of Contents us could also result in substantial and unexpected expenditures, affect consumer or customer confidence in our products, and divert management’s attention from other responsibilities. Although we maintain product liability insurance, there can be no assurance that this type or the level of coverage is adequate or that we will be able to continue to maintain its existing insurance or obtain comparable insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all. A product recall or a partially or completely uninsured judgment against us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We are subject to risks associated with possible climate change legislation, regulation and international accords. Greenhouse gas emissions have increasingly become the subject of a large amount of international, national, regional, state and local attention. Cap and trade initiatives to limit greenhouse gas emissions have been introduced in the EU. Similarly, numerous bills related to climate change have been introduced in the US Congress, which could adversely impact all industries. In addition, the EPA has promulgated rules limiting greenhouse gas emissions and regulation of greenhouse gas also could occur pursuant to future US treaty obligations, statutory or regulatory changes under the Clean Air Act or new climate change legislation. While not all are likely to become law, this is a strong indication that additional climate change related mandates will be forthcoming, and it is expected that they may adversely impact our costs by increasing energy costs and raw material prices, establishing costly emissions trading schemes and requiring modification of equipment to limit greenhouse gas emissions. A step toward potential federal restriction on greenhouse gas emissions was taken on December 7, 2009 when the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) issued its Endangerment Finding in response to a decision of the Supreme Court of the United States. The EPA found that the emission of six greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide (which is emitted from the combustion of fossil fuels), may reasonably be anticipated to endanger public health and welfare. Based on this finding, the EPA defined the mix of these six greenhouse gases to be “air pollution” subject to regulation under the Clean Air Act. Although the EPA has stated a preference that greenhouse gas regulation be based on new federal legislation rather than the existing Clean Air Act, absent legislative action, the EPA has begun to regulate many sources of greenhouse gas emissions. For example, on January 2, 2011, many large sources of greenhouse gas emissions became subject to the requirements of the Prevention of Significant Deterioration (“PSD”) permitting program. The PSD permitting program requires these large sources of greenhouse gas emissions to install Best Available Control Technology (“BACT”) to limit greenhouse gas emissions when modifying equipment if the increased greenhouse gas emissions will exceed 75,000 tons per year. Texas, however, has refused to implement the PSD permitting program for greenhouse gas emissions, which prompted the EPA to attempt to take over GHG permitting from the state regulators late last year. On December 30, 2010, an Appellate Court stayed EPA’s action pending a determination of whether EPA’s take-over complies with the U.S. Clean Air Act. Additionally, the EPA announced on December 23, 2010 that it would impose further greenhouse gas emission limits on electric generating units and petroleum refineries through the establishment of New Source Performance Standards (“NSPS”). The US Congress recently considered legislation that would create an economy-wide “cap-and-trade” system that would establish a limit (or cap) on overall greenhouse gas emissions and create a market for the purchase and/or sale of emissions permits or “allowances.” Under these proposals, the chemical industry likely would be affected due to anticipated increases in energy costs as fuel providers pass on the cost of the emissions allowances, which they would be required to obtain, to cover the emissions from fuel production and the eventual use of fuel by the Company or its energy suppliers. In addition, cap-and-trade proposals would likely increase the cost of energy, including purchases of steam and electricity, and certain raw materials used by the Company. Other countries are also considering or have implemented regulatory programs to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Future environmental legislative and regulatory developments related to climate change are possible, which could materially increase operating costs in the chemical industry and thereby increase our manufacturing and delivery costs. 24 Table of Contents Our production facilities handle the processing of some volatile and hazardous materials that subject us to operating risks that could have a negative effect on our operating results. Our operations are subject to operating risks associated with chemical manufacturing, including the related storage and transportation of raw materials, finished products and waste. These risks include, among other things, pipeline and storage tank leaks and ruptures, explosions and fires and discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances. These operating risks can cause personal injury, property damage and environmental contamination, and may result in the shutdown of affected facilities and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. The occurrence of any of these events may disrupt production and have a negative effect on the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility and our operating results and cash flows. Production at our manufacturing facilities could be disrupted for a variety of reasons, which could prevent us from producing enough of our products to maintain our sales and satisfy our customers’ demands. A disruption in production at one or more of our manufacturing facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business. Disruptions could occur for many reasons, including fire, natural disasters, weather, unplanned maintenance or other manufacturing problems, disease, strikes, transportation interruption, government regulation or terrorism. Alternative facilities with sufficient capacity or capabilities may not be available, may cost substantially more or may take a significant time to start production, each of which could negatively affect our business and financial performance. If one of our key manufacturing facilities is unable to produce our products for an extended period of time, our sales may be reduced by the shortfall caused by the disruption and we may not be able to meet our customers’ needs, which could cause them to seek other suppliers. In particular, production disruptions at our manufacturing facilities that produce chemicals used as inputs in the production of chemicals in other business segments, such as acetic acid, VAM and formaldehyde, could have a more significant adverse effect on our business and financial performance and results of operation to the extent of such vertical integration. Furthermore, to the extent a production disruption occurs at a manufacturing facility that has been operating at or near full capacity, the resulting shortage of our product could be particularly harmful because production at the manufacturing facility may not be able to be sufficiently increased in the future. Our business and financial results may be adversely affected by various legal and regulatory proceedings. We are subject to legal and regulatory proceedings, lawsuits and claims in the normal course of business and could become subject to additional claims in the future, some of which could be material. The outcome of existing proceedings, lawsuits and claims may differ from our expectations because the outcomes of litigation, including regulatory matters, are often difficult to reliably predict. Various factors or developments can lead us to change current estimates of liabilities and related insurance receivables where applicable, or permit us to make such estimates for matters previously not susceptible to reasonable estimates, such as a significant judicial ruling or judgment, a significant settlement, significant regulatory developments, or changes in applicable law. A future adverse ruling, settlement, or unfavorable development could result in charges that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition in any particular period. For a more detailed discussion of our legal proceedings, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings below. Our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain key employees and the identification and development of talent to succeed senior management. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain key personnel, and we rely heavily on our management team. The inability to recruit and retain key personnel or the unexpected loss of key personnel may adversely affect our operations. In addition, because of the reliance on our management team, our future success depends in part on our ability to identify and develop talent to succeed senior management. The retention of key personnel and appropriate senior management succession planning will continue to be critically important to the successful implementation of our strategies. 25 Table of Contents We may not be able to complete future acquisitions or successfully integrate future acquisitions into our business, which could affect adversely our business or results of operations. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to pursue acquisitions and joint venture opportunities. Successful accomplishment of this objective may be limited by the availability and suitability of acquisition candidates and by our financial resources, including available cash and borrowing capacity. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulty determining appropriate valuation, integrating operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired lines or businesses, personnel turnover and the diversion of management’s attention from other business matters. In addition, we may be unable to achieve anticipated benefits from these acquisitions in the timeframe that we anticipate, or at all, which could affect adversely our business or results of operations. We may experience unexpected difficulties and incur unexpected costs in the relocation of our Ticona plant from Kelsterbach to the Rhine Main area, which may increase our costs, delay the transition or disrupt our ability to supply our customers. We have agreed with Frankfurt, Germany Airport (“Fraport”) to relocate our Kelsterbach, Germany operations to another location, resolving several years of legal disputes related to the planned Frankfurt airport expansion. In July 2007, we announced that we would relocate the Kelsterbach, Germany operations to the Hoechst Industrial Park in the Rhine Main area. Fraport agreed to pay Ticona a total of €670 million over a 5-year period to offset costs associated with the closure of the Kelsterbach plant and the transition of the operations from its current location. As the relocation project progressed, we decided to expand the scope of the new production facilities and now expect to spend in excess of the proceeds to be received from Fraport. Because the relocation of our Kelsterbach, Germany operations represents a major logistical undertaking, the construction of our new facilities may be delayed, actual costs may exceed our revised estimates and we may be subject to penalties if we have not timely vacated the Kelsterbach location. If the relocation causes other unexpected difficulties, our costs may increase or supplies to our customers may be disrupted. Our significant non-US operations expose us to global exchange rate fluctuations that could adversely impact our profitability. Because we conduct a significant portion of our operations outside the United States, fluctuations in currencies of other countries, especially the Euro, may materially affect our operating results. For example, changes in currency exchange rates may decrease our profits in comparison to the profits of our competitors on the same products sold in the same markets and increase the cost of items required in our operations. A substantial portion of our net sales is denominated in currencies other than the US dollar. In our consolidated financial statements, we translate our local currency financial results into US dollars based on average exchange rates prevailing during a reporting period or the exchange rate at the end of that period. During times of a strengthening US dollar our reported international sales, earnings, assets and liabilities will be reduced because the local currency will translate into fewer US dollars. In addition to currency translation risks, we incur a currency transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a currency different from the operating subsidiary’s functional currency. Given the volatility of exchange rates, we may not be able to manage our currency transaction and translation risks effectively, and volatility in currency exchange rates may expose our financial condition or results of operations to a significant additional risk. Since a portion of our indebtedness is and will be denominated in currencies other than US dollars, a weakening of the US dollar could make it more difficult for us to repay our indebtedness denominated in foreign currencies unless we have cash flows in those foreign currencies from our foreign operations sufficient to repay that indebtedness out of those cash flows. We use financial instruments to hedge certain exposure to foreign currency fluctuations, but we cannot guarantee that our hedging strategies will be effective. Failure to effectively manage these risks could have an adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 26 Table of Contents Significant changes in pension fund investment performance or assumptions relating to pension costs may have a material effect on the valuation of pension obligations, the funded status of pension plans and our pension cost. The cost of our pension plans is incurred over long periods of time and involves many uncertainties during those periods of time. Our funding policy for pension plans is to accumulate plan assets that, over the long run, will approximate the present value of projected benefit obligations. Our pension cost is materially affected by the discount rate used to measure pension obligations, the level and value of plan assets available to fund those obligations at the measurement date and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. Significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets can result in corresponding increases and decreases in the valuation of plan assets, particularly equity securities, or in a change of the expected or actual rate of return on plan assets. A change in the discount rate would result in a significant increase or decrease in the valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported funded status of our pension plans as well as the net periodic pension cost in the following fiscal years. In recent years, an extended duration strategy in the asset portfolio has been implemented to minimize the influence of liability volatility due to interest rate movements. Similarly, changes in the expected return on plan assets can result in significant changes in the net periodic pension cost for subsequent fiscal years. If the value of our pension fund’s portfolio declines we may be required to contribute capital in addition to those contributions for which we have already planned. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. Our inability to protect and enforce these rights could reduce our ability to maintain our market position and our profit margins. We attach great importance to our patents, trademarks, copyrights and know-how and trade secrets in order to protect our investment in research and development, manufacturing and marketing. We have also adopted rigorous internal policies for protecting our valuable know-how and trade secrets. We sometimes license patents and other technology from third parties. Our policy is to seek the widest possible protection for significant developments that provide us competitive advantages in our major markets. Patents may cover catalysts, processes, products, intermediate products and product uses. These patents provide varying periods of protection based on the filing date of the patent application, and the legal life of patents, type of patent and its scope in the various countries in which we seek protection. As patents expire, the catalysts, processes and products described and claimed in those patents become generally available for use by the public subject to our continued protection for associated know-how and trade secrets. We also seek to register trademarks extensively as a means of protecting the brand names of our products, which brand names become more important once the corresponding product or process patents have expired. We operate in regions of the world where intellectual property protection may be limited and difficult to enforce and our continued growth strategy may bring us to additional regions with similar challenges. If we are not successful in protecting or maintaining our patent, license, trademark or other intellectual property rights, our revenues, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as any shareholders’ rights plan, may discourage a takeover attempt. Provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our shareholders. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws impose various procedural and other requirements, which could make it more difficult for shareholders to effect certain corporate actions. For example, our certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of unissued series of preferred stock, without any vote or action by our shareholders. Thus, our Board of Directors can authorize and issue shares of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting or other rights of holders of our Series A common stock. These rights may have the effect of delaying or deterring a change of control of our Company. In addition, a change of control of our company may be delayed or deterred as a result of our having three classes of directors (each class elected for a three year term) or as a result of any shareholders’ rights plan that our Board of Directors may adopt. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our Series A common stock. 27 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Acquisition of Celanese GmbH, formerly Celanese AG The amounts of the fair cash compensation and of the guaranteed annual payment offered under the domination and profit and loss transfer agreement (the “Domination Agreement”) and/or the compensation paid in connection with the squeeze out may be increased, which may further reduce the funds that our subsidiary, BCP Holdings GmbH, a German limited liability company (“BCP Holdings”), can otherwise make available to us. Several minority shareholders of Celanese GmbH have initiated special award proceedings seeking the court’s review of the amounts of the fair cash compensation and of the guaranteed annual payment offered under the Domination Agreement. On December 12, 2006, the Frankfurt District Court appointed an expert to help determine the value of Celanese AG as of July 31, 2004, on which date an extraordinary shareholder meeting of Celanese AG was held to resolve the Domination Agreement. As a result of these proceedings, the amounts of the fair cash compensation and of the guaranteed annual payment could be increased by the court, and BCP Holdings would be required to make such payments within two months after the publication of the court’s ruling. Any such increase may be substantial. All minority shareholders would be entitled to claim the respective higher amounts. This may reduce the funds BCP Holdings can make available to us and, accordingly, diminish our ability to make payments on our indebtedness. See Note 23 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information. The Company also received applications for the commencement of award proceedings filed by 79 shareholders against BCP Holdings with the Frankfurt District Court requesting the court to set a higher amount for the Squeeze-Out compensation. Should the court set a higher value for the Squeeze-Out compensation, former Celanese AG shareholders who ceased to be shareholders of Celanese AG due to the Squeeze-Out are entitled, pursuant to a settlement agreement between BCP Holdings and certain former Celanese AG shareholders, to claim for their shares the higher of the compensation amounts determined by the court in these different proceedings. Previously received compensation for their shares will be offset so that those shareholders who ceased to be shareholders of Celanese AG due to the Squeeze-Out are not entitled to more than higher of the amount set in the two court proceedings. Celanese Deutschland Holding GmbH (“CDH”) may be required to compensate BCP Holdings for annual losses, which may reduce the funds CDH can otherwise make available to us. CDH and BCP Holdings have entered into a profit and loss transfer agreement on December 3, 2009 which became effective on December 10, 2009 (the “PLTA”). Under the PLTA, CDH is required, among other things, to compensate BCP Holdings for any annual loss incurred, determined in accordance with German accounting requirements, by BCP Holdings at the end of the fiscal year in which the loss was incurred. This obligation to compensate BCP Holdings for annual losses will apply during the entire term of the PLTA. If BCP Holdings incurs losses during any period of the operative term of the PLTA and if such losses lead to an annual loss of BCP Holdings at the end of any given fiscal year during the term of the PLTA, CDH will be obligated to make a corresponding cash payment to BCP Holdings to the extent that the respective annual loss is not fully compensated for by the dissolution of profit reserves accrued at the level of BCP Holdings during the term of the PLTA. CDH may be able to reduce or avoid cash payments to BCP Holdings by off-setting against such loss compensation claims made by BCP Holdings any valuable counterclaims against BCP Holdings that CDH may have. If CDH is obligated to make cash payments to BCP Holdings to cover an annual loss, we may not have sufficient funds to make payments on our indebtedness when due and, unless CDH is able to obtain funds from a source other than annual profits of BCP Holdings, CDH may not be able to satisfy its obligation to fund such shortfall. BCP Holdings may be required to compensate Celanese GmbH for annual losses, which may reduce the funds BCP Holdings can otherwise make available to us. BCP Holdings and Celanese GmbH have entered into a new domination agreement on March 26, 2010 which became effective on April 9, 2010 (the “Domination Agreement II”). Under the Domination Agreement II, BCP Holdings is required, among other things, to compensate Celanese GmbH for any annual loss incurred, determined in accordance with German accounting requirements, by Celanese GmbH at the end of the fiscal year in which the 28 Table of Contents loss was incurred. This obligation to compensate Celanese GmbH for annual losses will apply during the entire term of the Domination Agreement II. If Celanese GmbH incurs losses during any period of the operative term of the Domination Agreement II and if such losses lead to an annual loss of Celanese GmbH at the end of any given fiscal year during the term of the Domination Agreement II, BCP Holdings will be obligated to make a corresponding cash payment to Celanese GmbH to the extent that the respective annual loss is not fully compensated for by the dissolution of profit reserves accrued at the level of Celanese GmbH during the term of the Domination Agreement II. BCP Holdings may be able to reduce or avoid cash payments to Celanese GmbH by off-setting against such loss compensation claims by Celanese GmbH any valuable counterclaims against Celanese GmbH that BCP Holdings may have. If BCP Holdings is obligated to make cash payments to Celanese GmbH to cover an annual loss, we may not have sufficient funds to make payments on our indebtedness when due and, unless BCP Holdings is able to obtain funds from a source other than annual profits of Celanese GmbH, BCP Holdings may not be able to satisfy its obligation to fund such shortfall. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Our level of indebtedness could diminish our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or the chemicals industry and prevent us from meeting obligations under our indebtedness. Our total indebtedness is approximately $3.2 billion as of December 31, 2010. See Note 13 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences, including: • increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions including exacerbating the impact of any adverse business effects that are determined to be material adverse events under our existing senior credit facilities (the “Senior Credit Agreement”); • requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities or pay dividends on our common stock; • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and • limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt. We may be able to incur additional indebtedness in the future, which could increase the risks described above. Although covenants under the Senior Credit Agreement and the Indenture governing the $600 million in aggregate principal amount of 65/8% Senior Notes due 2018 (the “Notes”) limit our ability to incur certain additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness we could incur in compliance with these restrictions could be significant. To the extent that we incur additional indebtedness, the risks associated with our leverage described above, including our possible inability to service our debt, including the Notes, would increase. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly and affect our operating results. Certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates were to increase, our debt service obligations on our variable rate indebtedness would increase. As of December 31, 2010, 29 Table of Contents we had $1.6 billion, €296 million and CNY 1.5 billion of variable rate debt, of which $1.5 billion and €150 million is hedged with interest rate swaps, which leaves $73 million, €146 million and CNY 1.5 billion of variable rate debt subject to interest rate exposure. Accordingly, a 1% increase in interest rates would increase annual interest expense by approximately $5 million. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” and Note 21 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our indebtedness, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on the financial condition and operating performance of our subsidiaries, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. The Senior Credit Agreement restricts our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from the disposition. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds which we could realize from them and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. Restrictive covenants in our debt agreements may limit our ability to engage in certain transactions and may diminish our ability to make payments on our indebtedness. The Senior Credit Agreement and the Indenture governing the Notes each contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. The Indenture governing the Notes will limit Celanese US’s and certain of its subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things, incur additional debt; pay dividends or make other restricted payments; consummate specified asset sales; enter into transactions with affiliates; incur liens, impose restrictions on the ability of a subsidiary to pay dividends or make payments to Celanese US and its restricted subsidiaries; merge or consolidate with any other person; and sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of Celanese US’s assets or the assets of its restricted subsidiaries. In addition, the Senior Credit Agreement requires us to maintain a maximum first lien senior secured leverage ratio if there are outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility. Our ability to meet this financial ratio can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not be able to meet this test at all. Such restrictions in our debt instruments could result in us having to obtain the consent of holders of the Notes and of our lenders in order to take certain actions. Disruptions in credit markets may prevent us from obtaining or make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain such consents. Our ability to expand our business or to address declines in our business may be limited if we are unable to obtain such consents. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, a default under the Senior Credit Agreement could permit lenders to accelerate the maturity of our indebtedness under the Senior Credit Agreement and to terminate any commitments to lend. If we were unable to repay such indebtedness, the lenders under the Senior Credit Agreement could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. Our subsidiaries have pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral to secure our indebtedness under the Senior Credit Agreement. If the lenders under the Senior Credit Agreement accelerate the repayment of such indebtedness, we may not have sufficient assets to repay such amounts or our other indebtedness, including the Notes. In such event, we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. 30 Table of Contents Celanese and Celanese US are holding companies and depend on subsidiaries to satisfy their obligations under the Notes and the guarantee of Celanese US’s obligations under the Notes by Celanese. As holding companies, Celanese and Celanese US conduct substantially all of their operations through their subsidiaries, which own substantially all of our consolidated assets. Consequently, the principal source of cash to pay Celanese and Celanese US’s obligations, including obligations under the Notes and the guarantee of the Celanese US’s obligations under the Notes by Celanese, is the cash that our subsidiaries generate from their operations. We cannot assure that our subsidiaries will be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions to enable Celanese US and/or Celanese to make payments in respect of their obligations. Each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, applicable state laws, regulatory limitations and terms of our debt instruments may limit Celanese US’s and Celanese’s ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. While the Indenture governing the Notes limits the ability of our subsidiaries to restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other intercompany payments to us, these limitations are subject to certain qualifications and exceptions, which may have the effect of significantly restricting the applicability of those limits. In the event Celanese US and/or Celanese do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, Celanese US and/or Celanese may be unable to make required payments on the Notes, the guarantee of Celanese US’s obligations under the Notes by Celanese, or our other indebtedness. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 31 Table of Contents 