ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to the Merger Any failure to complete the Merger could materially adversely impact the market price of our common stock as well as our business, financial condition and results of operations. Consummation of the Merger is subject to our and Hexion's performance under the Merger Agreement and a number of closing conditions. If the Merger is not completed for any reason, the price of our common stock will likely decline to the extent that the current market price of our common stock reflects market assumptions that the Merger will be completed and the premium implied by the merger consideration will be realized. We may also be subject to additional risks, including: •the occurrence of any event, change or other circumstances that could give rise to the termination of the Merger Agreement with Hexion, or the failure of the Merger to close for any other reason; 36 •under the terms of the Merger Agreement, in certain circumstances we could be required to pay significant fees in connection with a termination of the Merger Agreement, which would be in addition to the termination fee (the "Basell Termination Fee") that we paid under an agreement and plan of merger we entered into with Basell (the "Basell Agreement"), for which we would be solely responsible; •our management having spent a significant amount of their time and efforts directed toward the Merger and the related transactions, which time and efforts otherwise would have been spent on our business and other opportunities that could have been beneficial to us; •costs relating to the Merger and related transactions, such as legal, accounting and filing fees, much of which must be paid regardless of whether the Merger is completed; •uncertainties relating to the Merger and related transactions may adversely affect our relationships with our employees, vendors and customers; and •the outcome of any litigation or judicial actions that have been or may be instituted against us, our board of directors and others relating to the Merger Agreement or any settlement of such litigation or judicial actions. Accordingly, investors should not place undue reliance on the occurrence of the Merger. In addition, if the Merger does not occur, there can be no assurance that a comparable transaction will be consummated that results in investors' shares being purchased. The realization of any of these risks may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or the market price of our common stock. If the banks that have provided commitment letters for the funds to complete the Merger are not required or refuse to fund, Hexion will have to seek other financing to complete the Merger, which financing may not be available. Hexion has obtained commitment letters for senior secured credit facilities and a senior secured bridge facility with affiliates of Credit Suisse and Deutsche Bank AG to be made available to Hexion and/or one or more of its subsidiaries for purposes of, among other things, financing the merger consideration. Hexion's ability to draw on the proposed loan facility is subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions. Under the Merger Agreement, Hexion's obligation to consummate the Merger, however, is not conditioned upon receipt or availability of financing. Although Hexion expects that it will be able to draw on the proposed loan facility, in the event Hexion is unable to do so, Hexion will be forced to seek substitute financing to raise the necessary funds to pay the merger consideration. Such substitute financing may be unavailable. In addition, while Hexion is owned by affiliates of Apollo Management, L.P., Apollo Management, L.P. is not obligated to contribute additional equity to us or Hexion in order to consummate the Merger. For more information, see "—Recent Developments—Pending Sale of Our Company" above. Necessary consents and approvals from government entities may delay or prevent the closing of the Merger. The Merger is conditioned upon, among other things, receipt of regulatory approvals or expiration of required waiting periods in the United States, the European Union and several other jurisdictions. There can be no assurance when any such approvals will be obtained or when such waiting periods will expire, if at all. As a result, stockholders face the risk that the completion of the Merger may be delayed or that the Merger may not be completed. 37 The period of time expected before completing the Merger may increase the risk that we inadvertently fail to comply with our covenants, including those that restrict our conduct of business or that a material adverse effect occurs in our business which would permit Hexion to refuse to consummate the Merger. The Merger is subject to obtaining the required regulatory clearances and approvals and other conditions beyond our control that may delay or otherwise materially adversely affect its completion. We cannot predict when these conditions will be satisfied. Further, the period of time necessary to satisfy the requirements for obtaining the required clearances and approvals could significantly delay the effective time of the Merger which would increase the risk that we inadvertently fail to comply with our covenants, including those that restrict our conduct of business or that there arises an occurrence, condition, change or event that would constitute a material adverse effect under the terms of the Merger Agreement, which would permit Hexion to refuse to consummate the Merger. We could incur substantial merger-related costs in connection with the Merger. We expect to incur a number of non-recurring costs associated with completing the Merger. These costs could be substantial and could have an adverse effect on our reported results before the consummation of the Merger. The pendency of the Merger could materially adversely affect our business and operations. In connection with the pending Merger, some of our vendors, customers and strategic partners may delay or defer decisions relating to their ongoing and future relationships with us, which could negatively affect our revenues, earnings and cash flows and adversely affect our prospects which could be detrimental to our stockholders if the Merger is not consummated. Uncertainties associated with the Merger may cause a loss of employees and may otherwise materially adversely affect our business and operations. Our future results of operations will depend in part upon our ability to retain existing highly skilled and qualified employees and to attract new employees. A number of our employees are highly skilled scientists and highly trained technicians, and failure to continue to attract and retain such individuals could materially adversely affect our ability to compete. In addition, current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their roles following the effective time of the Merger. This uncertainty may materially adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key management, sales, marketing, technical and other personnel. This inability to retain key personnel could have an adverse effect on our ability to operate the business as a stand-alone enterprise in the event the Merger is not consummated. In certain circumstances, the Merger Agreement requires us to pay Hexion a termination fee of $225 million plus an amount equal to $100 million (the "Reimbursement Amount"), representing the portion of the $200 million termination fee paid to Basell that was funded by Hexion, and, any such payment could have material and adverse consequences to our financial condition and operations. Under the Merger Agreement, we may be required to pay to Hexion a termination fee of $225 million and the Reimbursement Amount of $100 million if the Merger Agreement is terminated under certain circumstances. Should the Merger Agreement be terminated in circumstances under which the termination fee and Reimbursement Amount are payable, the payment could have material and adverse consequences to our financial condition and operations after such time. 38 The Merger Agreement contains restrictive covenants that may limit our ability to respond to changes in market conditions or pursue business opportunities. The Merger Agreement contains restrictive covenants that limit our ability to, among other things: •incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or raise additional capital; •purchase equity interests or redeem indebtedness early; •create or incur certain liens; •enter into transactions with affiliates; •issue or sell capital stock of subsidiaries; and •sell or acquire assets or businesses. Although the Merger Agreement provides that Hexion will not unreasonably withhold its consent to us taking otherwise prohibited actions, there can be no assurances that Hexion will grant such consent. The requirement that we comply with these provisions prior to the Merger may materially adversely affect our ability to react to changes in market conditions, take advantage of business opportunities, obtain future financing, fund needed capital expenditures, or finance equipment purchases, any of which could have a material and adverse effect on the prospects of our business, which could be detrimental to our stockholders in the event the Merger is not consummated. Rating agencies could downgrade their corporate debt ratings for us before the effective time of the Merger. Such downgrades could have a material adverse effect on the ongoing cost of financing our business. Some rating agencies that provide corporate ratings on us or provide ratings on our debt may downgrade their corporate or debt ratings with respect to us in light of the pending Merger and the financing thereof. A downgrade could materially adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, including increasing the cost of obtaining financing under existing or future facilities or of debt securities, and may effect the payment terms offered by vendors which could result in a negative impact on our liquidity. Risks Related to the Ownership of Our Common Stock Our stock price has been and may continue to be subject to large fluctuations. We have experienced significant fluctuations in our stock price and share trading volume in the past and may continue to do so. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of issues, including broad market factors that may have a material adverse impact on our stock price, regardless of actual performance. The most significant factors that are likely to effect our stock price are events, expectations and market perceptions that relate to the likelihood and timing of the consummation of the Merger. In addition, the following factors could effect our stock price: •periodic variations in the actual or anticipated financial results of our business or that of our competitors; •downward revisions in securities analysts' estimates of our future operating results or of the future operating results of our competitors; •material announcements by us or our competitors; •public sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock; and •adverse changes in general market conditions or economic trends or in conditions or trends in the markets in which we operate. 39 Shares available for future sale may cause our common stock price to decline, which may negatively impact your investment. Sales of substantial numbers of additional shares of our common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, may cause prevailing market prices for shares of our common stock to decline. Pursuant to a voting agreement, MatlinPatterson has the right to dispose of 19,870,000 shares of our common stock, subject to the requirement that either we agree that certain criteria are satisfied or the new owner grants all voting rights with respect to the purchased shares to HMP Equity Trust or to Jon M. Huntsman. In addition, we have filed a registration statement to permit sales of our common stock by other stockholders who hold an aggregate of 23,762,000 shares (or approximately 10.7%) of our outstanding shares of common stock. Any sales of our shares of common stock may negatively impact your investment. If the Merger Agreement is terminated, or with the consent of Hexion, we have the ability to issue additional equity securities, which would lead to further dilution of our issued and outstanding common stock. The issuance of additional equity securities would result in dilution of then-existing stockholders' equity interests in us. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to establish one or more series of preferred stock and to determine, with respect to any series of preferred stock, the number of shares in that series and the terms, rights and limitations of that series. If we issue convertible preferred stock, a subsequent conversion may dilute the current common stockholders' interest. Our board of directors has no present intention of issuing any such preferred stock, but reserves the right to do so in the future, subject to restrictions set forth in the Merger Agreement. In addition, subject to restrictions set forth in the Merger Agreement, we may issue additional shares of common stock under our equity incentive plans. In addition to provisions of the Merger Agreement, certain provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could discourage a takeover attempt, which may reduce or eliminate the likelihood of a change of control transaction other than the Merger and, therefore, your ability to sell your shares at a price higher than contemplated by the Merger. In addition to provisions of the Merger Agreement, certain provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, such as a classified board of directors, limitations on stockholder proposals at meetings of stockholders and the inability of stockholders to call special meetings and certain provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party other than Hexion to acquire control of our company, even if some of our stockholders considered such a change of control to be beneficial. Our certificate of incorporation also authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. Although the terms of the Merger Agreement restrict our ability to issue preferred stock, if the Merger Agreement is terminated, or if Hexion consents, our board of directors could elect to issue preferred stock that has special voting or other rights that could make it even more difficult for a third party to acquire us, which may reduce or eliminate your ability to sell your shares of common stock at a price higher than contemplated by the Merger. Risks Related to MTBE Existing or future litigation or legislative initiatives restricting the use of MTBE in gasoline may subject us or our products to environmental liability, materially reduce our sales and/or materially increase our costs. We produce MTBE, an oxygenate that is blended with gasoline to reduce vehicle air emissions and to enhance the octane rating of gasoline. Existing or future litigation or legislative initiatives restricting the use of MTBE in gasoline may subject us or our products to environmental liability or materially adversely affect our sales and costs. Because MTBE has contaminated some water supplies, its use has 40 become controversial in the U.S. and elsewhere, and its use has been effectively eliminated in the U.S. market. As a result of these developments, we currently market, either directly or through third parties, MTBE to customers located outside the U.S. for use as a gasoline additive. There are additional costs associated with sales to customers outside the U.S., which may result in decreased profitability compared to sales in the U.S. We may also elect to use all or a portion of our precursor TBA to produce saleable products other than MTBE. If we opt to produce products other than MTBE, necessary modifications to our facilities will require significant capital expenditures and the sale of such other products may produce a lower level of cash flow than that historically produced from the sale of MTBE. Numerous companies, including refiners, manufacturers and sellers of gasoline, as well as manufacturers of MTBE, have been named as defendants in approximately 150 cases currently pending in U.S. courts that allege MTBE contamination in groundwater. In March 2007, we were named for the first time as a defendant in eight of those lawsuits. We learned that we were named in a ninth such case in January 2008. The plaintiffs in the MTBE groundwater contamination cases generally seek compensatory damages, punitive damages, injunctive relief, such as monitoring and abatement, and attorney fees. We currently have insufficient information to meaningfully assess our potential exposure in these cases. It is possible that we could be named as a defendant in additional existing or future MTBE contamination cases. We cannot provide assurances that adverse results against us in existing or future MTBE contamination cases will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. Other Risks Significant price volatility or interruptions in supply of our raw materials may result in increased costs that we may be unable to pass on to our customers, which could reduce our profitability. The prices of the raw materials that we purchase from third parties are cyclical and volatile. We purchase a substantial portion of these raw materials from third party suppliers, and, following the U.S. Petrochemicals Disposition and our other recent dispositions, our purchases from third party suppliers have significantly increased. The cost of these raw materials represents a substantial portion of our operating expenses. The prices for a number of these raw materials generally follow price trends of, and vary with market conditions for, crude oil and natural gas feedstocks, which are highly volatile and cyclical. The feedstocks and other raw materials we consume are generally commodity products that are readily available at market prices. Nevertheless, we frequently enter into supply agreements with particular suppliers where we believe such agreements will reduce our costs. In some cases, the existence of pipelines or the proximity of suppliers may provide significant cost benefits to us. Disruptions of existing supply arrangements could substantially impact our profitability. If certain of our suppliers are unable to meet their obligations under present supply agreements, we may be forced to pay higher prices to obtain the necessary raw materials from other sources and we may not be able to increase prices for our finished products to recoup the higher raw materials costs. In addition, if any of the raw materials that we use become unavailable within the geographic area from which they are now sourced, then we may not be able to obtain suitable or cost effective substitutes. Any interruption in the supply of raw materials could increase our costs or decrease our revenues, which could reduce our cash flow. Our supply agreements typically provide for market-based pricing and provide us only limited protection against price volatility. While we attempt to match cost increases with corresponding product price increases, we are not always able to raise product prices immediately or at all. Timing differences between raw material prices, which may change daily, and contract product prices, which in many cases 41 are negotiated only monthly or less often, have had and may continue to have a negative effect on our cash flow. Any cost increase that we are not able to pass on to our customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We are subject to the risk of loss resulting from nonpayment and/or nonperformance by our customers. Our credit procedures and policies may not be adequate to eliminate customer credit risk. Our customers may experience financial difficulties, including bankruptcies, restructurings and liquidations. These and other financial problems that may be experienced by our customers, as well as potential financial weakness in our industry, may increase our risk in extending trade credit to customers. A significant adverse change in a customer relationship or in a customer's financial position could cause us to limit or discontinue business with that customer, require us to assume more credit risk relating to that customer's receivables or limit our ability to collect accounts receivable from that customer, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Natural or other disasters could disrupt our business and result in loss of revenue or in higher expenses. Any serious disruption at any of our facilities due to hurricane, fire, earthquake, flood, terrorist attack or any other natural or man-made disaster could impair our ability to use our facilities and have a material adverse impact on our revenues and increase our costs and expenses. If there is a natural disaster or other serious disruption at any of these facilities, it could impair our ability to adequately supply our customers and negatively impact our operating results. In addition, many of our current and potential customers are concentrated in specific geographic areas. A disaster in one of these regions could have a material adverse impact on our operations, operating results and financial condition. We have a history of losses and may incur losses in the future. We incurred net losses in five of the last six fiscal years. Our history of net losses may have a negative impact on our business, including our ability to fund operations, make capital expenditures and service debt obligations. Persistent continued net losses likely would negatively affect our ability to meet such obligations over the long-term. Our history of net losses may also increase our cost of borrowing and make it more difficult and/or expensive to take advantage of opportunities for growth. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates and international business risks. We conduct a majority of our business operations outside the U.S., and these operations are subject to risks normally associated with international operations. These risks include the need to convert currencies which may be received for our products into currencies in which we purchase raw materials or pay for services, which could result in a gain or loss depending on fluctuations in exchange rates. In addition, we translate our local currency financial results into U.S. dollars based on average exchange rates prevailing during the reporting period or the exchange rate at the end of that period. During times of a strengthening U.S. dollar, our reported international sales and earnings may be reduced because the local currency may translate into fewer U.S. dollars. Because we currently have significant operations located outside the United States, we are exposed to fluctuations in global currency rates which may result in gains or losses on our financial statements. Other risks of international operations include trade barriers, tariffs, exchange controls, national and regional labor strikes, social and political risks, general economic risks and required compliance with a variety of foreign laws, including tax laws. Furthermore, in foreign jurisdictions where process of law may vary from country to country, we may experience difficulty in enforcing agreements. In jurisdictions where bankruptcy laws and practices may vary, we may experience difficulty collecting 42 foreign receivables through foreign legal systems. The occurrence of these risks could disrupt the businesses of our international subsidiaries, which could significantly affect their ability to make distributions to us. Demand for many of our products is cyclical, and we may experience depressed market conditions for such products. Historically, the markets for many of our products have experienced alternating periods of tight supply, causing prices and profit margins to increase, followed by periods of capacity additions, resulting in oversupply and declining prices and profit margins. The industries in which we compete are highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete effectively with our competitors that have greater financial resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive. Among our competitors are some of the world's largest chemical companies and major integrated petroleum companies that have their own raw material resources. Some of these companies may be able to produce products more economically than we can. In addition, some of our competitors have greater financial resources, which may enable them to invest significant capital into their businesses, including expenditures for research and development. If any of our current or future competitors develops proprietary technology that enables them to produce products at a significantly lower cost, our technology could be rendered uneconomical or obsolete. Moreover, certain of our businesses use technology that is widely available. Accordingly, barriers to entry, apart from capital availability, may be low in certain product segments of our business, and the entrance of new competitors into the industry may reduce our ability to capture improving profit margins in circumstances where capacity utilization in the industry is increasing. Further, petroleum-rich countries have become more significant participants in the petrochemical industry and may expand this role significantly in the future. Increased competition in any of our businesses could compel us to reduce the prices of our products, which could result in reduced profit margins and loss of market share and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Our operations involve risks that may increase our operating costs, which could reduce our profitability. Although we take precautions to enhance the safety of our operations and minimize the risk of disruptions, our operations are subject to hazards inherent in the manufacturing and marketing of differentiated and commodity chemical products. These hazards include: chemical spills, pipeline leaks and ruptures; storage tank leaks, discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases and other hazards incident to the manufacturing, processing, handling, transportation and storage of dangerous chemicals. We are also potentially subject to other hazards, including natural disasters and severe weather; explosions and fires; transportation problems, including interruptions, spills and leaks; mechanical failures; unscheduled downtimes; labor difficulties; remediation complications; and other risks. Many potential hazards can cause bodily injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and environmental damage, and may result in suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties and liabilities. Furthermore, we are subject to present and future claims with respect to workplace exposure, exposure of contractors on our premises as well as other persons located nearby, workers' compensation and other matters. We maintain property, business interruption and casualty insurance policies which we believe are in accordance with customary industry practices, but we are not fully insured against all potential hazards and risks incident to our business. We maintain property damage and business interruption insurance policies and products liability and sudden and accidental insurance policies, as well as insurance policies covering other types of risks, including pollution legal liability insurance. Each of these insurance 43 policies is subject to customary exclusions, deductibles and coverage limits, in accordance with industry standards and practices. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially and, in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. If we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. In addition, we are subject to various claims and litigation in the ordinary course of business. In conjunction with many of our past acquisitions, we have obtained indemnity agreements from the prior owners addressing liabilities that may arise from operations and events prior to our ownership. We are a party to various pending lawsuits and proceedings. It is possible that judgments could be rendered against us in these cases or others in which we could be uninsured or not covered by indemnity and beyond the amounts that we currently have reserved or anticipate incurring for such matters. We are subject to many environmental and safety regulations that may result in unanticipated costs or liabilities, which could reduce our profitability. We are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations, rules and ordinances relating to pollution, protection of the environment and the generation, storage, handling, transportation, treatment, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances and waste materials. Actual or alleged violations of environmental laws or permit requirements could result in restrictions or prohibitions on plant operations, substantial civil or criminal sanctions, as well as, under some environmental laws, the assessment of strict liability and/or joint and several liability. Moreover, changes in environmental regulations could inhibit or interrupt our operations, or require us to modify our facilities or operations. Accordingly, environmental or regulatory matters may cause us to incur significant unanticipated losses, costs or liabilities, which could reduce our profitability. See "Item 1. Business—Environmental, Health and Safety Matters" and "Item 3. Legal Proceedings." In addition, we could incur significant expenditures in order to comply with existing or future environmental or safety laws. Capital expenditures and costs relating to environmental or safety matters will be subject to evolving regulatory requirements and will depend on the timing of the promulgation and enforcement of specific standards which impose requirements on our operations. Capital expenditures and costs beyond those currently anticipated may therefore be required under existing or future environmental or safety laws. Furthermore, we may be liable for the costs of investigating and cleaning up environmental contamination on or from our properties or at off-site locations where we disposed of or arranged for the disposal or treatment of hazardous materials or from disposal activities that pre-dated our purchase of our businesses. We may therefore incur additional costs and expenditures beyond those currently anticipated to address all such known and unknown situations under existing and future environmental laws. See "Item 1. Business—Environmental, Health and Safety Matters" and "Item 3. Legal Proceedings." Our available cash and access to additional capital may be limited by our significant leverage, which could restrict our ability to grow our businesses. We have a significant amount of indebtedness outstanding. As of December 31, 2007, we had total consolidated outstanding indebtedness of approximately $3.6 billion (including the current portion of long-term debt) and a debt to total capitalization ratio of approximately 66%. This balance does not reflect approximately $428 million under our off-balance sheet A/R Securitization Program at 44 December 31, 2007. Our outstanding debt could have important consequences for our businesses, including: •a high degree of debt makes us more vulnerable to a downturn in our businesses, our industry or the economy in general, as a significant percentage of our cash flow from operations will be required to make payments on our indebtedness, making it more difficult to react to changes in our business and in market or industry conditions; •a substantial portion of our future cash flow from operations may be required to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available for other purposes, including the growth of our businesses; •our ability to obtain additional financing may be constrained due to our existing level of debt; and •part of our indebtedness is, and any future debt may be, subject to variable interest rates, which makes us vulnerable to increases in interest rates. We require substantial capital to finance our operations and continued growth, and we may incur substantial additional debt from time to time for a variety of purposes, including acquiring additional businesses. However, our existing debt instruments contain restrictive covenants. Among other things, these covenants limit or prohibit our ability to incur more debt; make prepayments of other debt; pay dividends, redeem stock or make other distributions; issue capital stock; make investments; create liens; enter into transactions with affiliates; enter into sale and leaseback transactions; and merge or consolidate; and transfer or sell assets. Also, if we undergo a change of control, our debt instruments may require us to make an offer to purchase certain of our notes. Under these circumstances, we may also be required to repay indebtedness under our senior secured credit facilities ("Senior Credit Facilities") prior to our notes. In this event, we may not have the financial resources necessary to purchase such notes, which would result in an event of default under the indentures governing such notes. As of December 31, 2007, the current portion of our long term debt totaled approximately $69 million. For 2008, without giving consideration to the Merger, we estimate that our annual aggregate debt service expense will be approximately $275 million, which will include approximately $5 million in amortization of capitalized debt costs. As of December 31, 2007, we had combined outstanding variable rate borrowings of approximately $1.7 billion. Assuming a 1% increase in interest rates, without giving effect to any interest rate hedges, our annual interest rate expense would increase by approximately $17 million. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or are otherwise unable to obtain the funds required to meet payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the various covenants in the instruments governing our indebtedness, we could be in default under the terms of those instruments. In the event of a default, a holder of the indebtedness could elect to declare all the funds borrowed under those instruments to be due and payable together with accrued and unpaid interest, the creditors under our Senior Credit Facilities could elect to terminate their commitments thereunder and we or one or more of our subsidiaries, could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. Any of the foregoing consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If our subsidiaries do not make sufficient distributions to us, then we will not be able to make payment on our debts. Generally, our debt is the exclusive obligation of Huntsman International and the guarantors of such debt and not of any of our other subsidiaries. Because a significant portion of our operations are conducted by these other subsidiaries, our cash flow and our ability to service indebtedness, including our ability to pay the interest on our debt when due and principal of such debt at maturity, are 45 dependent to a large extent upon cash dividends and distributions or other transfers from non-guarantor subsidiaries. Any payment of dividends, distributions, loans or advances by our non-guarantor subsidiaries to us could be subject to restrictions on dividends or repatriation of earnings under applicable local law, monetary transfer restrictions and foreign currency exchange regulations in the jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate, and any restrictions imposed by the current and future debt instruments of our non-guarantor subsidiaries. In addition, payments to us by our subsidiaries are contingent upon our non-guarantor subsidiaries' earnings. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and, except for our guarantor subsidiaries, have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay any amounts due on our debt or to make any funds available therefor, whether by dividends, loans, distributions or other payments, and do not guarantee the payment of interest on, or principal of, our debt. Any right that we have to receive any assets of any of our subsidiaries that are not guarantors upon the liquidation or reorganization of any such subsidiary, and the consequent right of holders of notes to realize proceeds from the sale of their assets, will be structurally subordinated to the claims of that subsidiary's creditors, including trade creditors and holders of debt issued by that subsidiary. A downgrade in the ratings of the securities of our Company or our subsidiaries could result in increased interest and other financial expenses related to future borrowings of our Company or our subsidiaries and could restrict our access to additional capital or trade credit. Standard and Poor's Ratings Services and Moody's Investors Service maintain credit ratings for us. Each of these ratings is currently below investment grade. Any decision by these or other ratings agencies to downgrade such ratings in the future could result in increased interest and other financial expenses relating to our future borrowings and could restrict our ability to obtain additional financing on satisfactory terms. In addition, any downgrade could restrict our access to, and negatively impact the terms of, trade credit extended by our suppliers of raw materials. Future acquisitions, partnerships and joint ventures may require significant resources and/or result in unanticipated adverse consequences that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In the future we may seek to grow our Company and businesses by making acquisitions or entering into partnerships and joint ventures. Any future acquisition, partnership or joint venture may require that we make a significant cash investment, issue stock or incur substantial debt. In addition, acquisitions, partnerships or investments may require significant managerial attention, which may be diverted from our other operations. These capital, equity and managerial commitments may impair the operation of our businesses. Any future acquisitions of businesses or facilities, could entail a number of additional risks, including: •problems with effective integration of operations; •the inability to maintain key pre-acquisition business relationships; •increased operating costs; •exposure to unanticipated liabilities; and •difficulties in realizing projected efficiencies, synergies and cost savings. We have incurred indebtedness to finance past acquisitions. We may finance future acquisitions with additional indebtedness. We could face the financial risks associated with incurring additional indebtedness such as reducing our liquidity and access to financing markets and increasing the amount of cash flow required to service such indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 46 Our business is dependent on our intellectual property. If our patents are declared invalid or our trade secrets become known to our competitors, our ability to compete may be adversely affected. Proprietary protection of our processes, apparatuses and other technology is important to our business. Consequently, we may have to rely on judicial enforcement of our patents and other proprietary rights. While a presumption of validity exists with respect to patents issued to us in the U.S., there can be no assurance that any of our patents will not be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. Furthermore, if any pending patent application filed by us does not result in an issued patent, or if patents are issued to us, but such patents do not provide meaningful protection of our intellectual property, then our ability to compete may be adversely affected. Additionally, our competitors or other third parties may obtain patents that restrict or preclude our ability to lawfully produce or sell our products in a competitive manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We also rely upon unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation and other trade secrets to develop and maintain our competitive position. While it is our policy to enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual property, these confidentiality agreements may be breached, may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or proprietary know-how, or adequate remedies may not be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and know-how. In addition, others could obtain knowledge of our trade secrets through independent development or other access by legal means. The failure of our patents or confidentiality agreements to protect our processes, apparatuses, technology, trade secrets or proprietary know-how could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Loss of key members of our management could disrupt our business. We depend on the continued employment and performance of our senior executives and other key members of management. If any of these individuals resigns or becomes unable to continue in his present role and is not adequately replaced, our business operations and our ability to implement our growth strategies could be materially disrupted. We generally do not have employment agreements with, and we do not maintain any "key man" life insurance for, any of our executive officers. Terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred on September 11, 2001, the continuing military action in Iraq, general instability in various OPEC member and other energy-producing nations, the threat of other attacks or acts of war in the U.S. and abroad and increased security regulations related to our industry could adversely affect our business. The attacks of September 11, 2001, and subsequent events, including the continuing military action in Iraq, have caused instability in the U.S. and other financial markets and have led, and may continue to lead, to further armed hostilities, prolonged military action in Iraq, or further acts of terrorism in the U.S. or abroad, which could cause further instability in financial markets. Current regional tensions and conflicts in various OPEC member and other energy-producing nations, including the continuing military action in Iraq, have caused, and may cause further, increases in raw material costs, particularly natural gas and crude oil based feedstocks, which are used in our operations. The uncertainty surrounding the threat of further armed hostilities, military action or acts of terrorism may impact any or all of our physical facilities and operations, which are located in North America, Europe, Australia, Asia, Africa, South America and the Middle East, or those of our customers. Furthermore, the terrorist attacks, subsequent events and future developments in any of these areas may result in reduced demand from our customers for our products. In addition, local, state and federal governments have begun a regulatory process that could lead to new regulations impacting the security of chemical plant locations and the transportation of hazardous chemicals, which could result in higher operating costs. These developments will subject our worldwide operations to increased risks and, depending on their 47 magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Jon M. Huntsman and the Huntsman family, through HMP Equity Trust, may be deemed to control approximately 22% of our outstanding common stock, and their interests may conflict with those of other stockholders or our Company. Jon M. Huntsman and other members of the Huntsman family may be deemed to control approximately 22% of our outstanding common stock. Through their interests, they may have the ability to substantially impact: •the election of the members of the board of directors of our Company; •the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including amendments to our certificate of incorporation, mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets; and •any potential change in control of our Company. The interests and objectives of the Huntsman family may be different from those of our Company or our other stockholders, and the Huntsman family may vote their common stock in a manner that may adversely affect our other stockholders. Jon M. Huntsman and Peter R. Huntsman are directors of our Company and they control HMP Equity Trust. This may create conflicts of interest because these directors have responsibilities to HMP Equity Trust and its beneficial owners. Their duties to HMP Equity Trust and its beneficial owners may conflict with their duties as directors of our Company regarding business dealings between HMP Equity Trust and us and other matters. The resolution of these conflicts may not always be in our or our stockholders' best interest. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS As of December 31, 2007, we did not have any unresolved comments with the staff of the SEC. 48 