ITEM 1A: Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors before making an investment decision. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such cases, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. We have a history of operating losses and uncertain future profitability. Prior to 2009, VirtualScopics incurred losses from operating activities since it began operations in 2001. As we continue to grow the business, we may face risks and difficulties in our business including uncertainties of further market penetration, competition, cost increases and delays in achieving business objectives. There can be no assurance that we will succeed in addressing any or all of these risks or that we will achieve future profitability and the failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. If our products and services do not continue to attract interest from new and existing customers, we may not achieve future growth. If we are unable to continue to attract interest in the industry for our services, we could fail to achieve future growth which would have a detrimental effect on our business. Our ability to generate revenues is highly dependent on building and maintaining relationships with leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. No assurance can be given that a sufficient number of such companies will increase their demand for our services, thereby limiting the overall market for quantitative imaging services and not enable us to increase our revenue to the extent expected. In addition, the rate of the growth of MRI and CT image-based biomarkers is difficult to predict. Failure to attract and maintain a significant customer base would have a detrimental effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The majority of the contracts we have with customers are cancelable for any reason by giving 30 days advance notice. Our customers typically engage us to perform services for them on a project-by-project basis and are required by us to enter into a written contractual agreement for the work, labor and services to be performed. Generally, our project contracts are terminable by the customer for any or no reason on 30 days’ advance notice to us. If a number of our customers were to exercise cancellation rights, our business and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to manage and sustain our growth, our operating results would be adversely affected. We have seen a growing demand for our image analysis services over the past several years. Although there can be no assurance that this will continue, if it does continue we may be unable to scale our capacity efficiently to meet this demand. If we are unable to do so, we may fail to maintain our operating margins or achieve expected operating margins. This may have a material and adverse effect on our operating results. Our services may become obsolete if we do not effectively respond to rapid technological change on a timely basis. Our services depend on the needs of our customers and their desire to utilize image-related services in drug and medical device development and clinical diagnosis and treatment. Since the image-based biomarker industry is characterized by evolving technologies, uncertain technology and limited availability of standards, we must respond to new research findings and technological changes affecting our customers. We may not be successful in developing and marketing, on a timely and cost-effective basis, new or modified products and services, which respond to technological changes, evolving customer requirements and competition. If we are unsuccessful in this regard, our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. 14 Although we believe that our products and services do not and will not infringe upon the patents or violate the proprietary rights of others, it is possible such infringement or violation has occurred or may occur which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Portions of our business are reliant upon patented and patentable systems and methods used in our image analysis and related intellectual property. In the event that products and services we sell are deemed to infringe upon the patents or proprietary rights of others, we could be required to modify our products and services or obtain a license for the manufacture and/or sale of such products and services. In such event, there can be no assurance that we would be able to do so in a timely manner, upon acceptable terms and conditions, or at all, and the failure to do any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect upon our business. Moreover, there can be no assurance that we will have the financial or other resources necessary to enforce or defend a patent infringement or proprietary rights violation action. In addition, if our products and services or proposed products and services are deemed to infringe or likely to infringe upon the patents or proprietary rights of others, we could be subject to injunctive relief and, under certain circumstances, become liable for damages, which could also have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to numerous pharmaceutical, medical device and healthcare industry regulations, which could adversely affect the nature and extent of the products and services we offer. Many aspects of the pharmaceutical, medical device and healthcare industry are subject to regulation at the federal level. From time to time, the regulatory entities that have jurisdiction over the industry adopt new or modified regulations or take other actions as a result of their own regulatory processes or as directed by other governmental bodies. This changing regulatory environment could adversely affect the nature and extent of the services we are able to offer. To date, our sales have been within the clinical trial industry. To enter the patient treatment or personalized medicine market we would need to obtain FDA clearance or approval before marketing our services in this area. There can be no assurance that such clearance or approval would be granted or that it would be granted in a timely manner. To effectively market our products to physicians as a treatment aid, we would also need to obtain appropriate coverage and favorable reimbursement from third-party payers, such as Medicare and insurance companies, in order to more fully benefit from the market opportunity. There can be no assurance that appropriate coverage would be granted or that reimbursement levels or conditions of coverage would be adequate to ensure acceptance among physicians. Additionally, the efforts of governments and third-party payers to contain or reduce the cost of health care, such as a number of legislative and regulatory proposals currently being discussed, could affect our ability to implement our plans in this area. We may in the future experience competition from academic sites, imaging CROs, and other competing technologies. Competition in the development of imaging solutions may become more widespread as with emerging technologies such as proteomics and genomics which can serve as predictive tools of drug efficacy. Competitors range from university-based research and development projects which would develop advanced tools to development stage companies and major domestic and international companies which would commercialize the tools. Some of these entities have greater financial, technical, marketing, sales, distribution and other resources than ours. There can be no assurance that we can continue to develop our technologies or that present or future competitors will not develop technologies that render our image-based biomarker industry obsolete or less marketable or that we will be able to introduce new products and product enhancements that are competitive with other products marketed by industry participants. 15 We have experienced significant demand from one customer, thereby increasing our dependence on the customer until we can further diversify our customer base. While we continue to serve a broad range of customers, we’ve experienced strong demand from one of our customers, and our dependence on that customer to sustain our continued growth has increased. In 2010, this customer accounted for 56% of our revenue. We continue to see demand from other customers, however, not to the same significant pace. We continue to invest on our sales and marketing efforts to further diversify our customers and more broadly penetrate the market, in order to minimize reliance on any one customer. As with all of our contracts, this customer may terminate its contractual relationship with us for any or no reason on 30 days’ advance notice. A decision by the customer to cancel all of its studies with us could have an adverse impact on the growth of our business. Consolidation within the pharmaceutical industry and changes within healthcare regulation may have an adverse impact on our business. Over the past few years, there have been several mergers and acquisitions among pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Historically, these transactions have positively impacted our business due to a broader exposure within the merged entity, however, there can be no assurance that consolidation within the industry will continue to be beneficial to us. Additionally, with the recent political landscape and changes within the healthcare industry, there may be an adverse impact on our business if the cost of imaging significantly increases or no longer becomes standard of care for patients. Although, we don’t believe imaging will decline in its level of use, if it does we may need to reduce prices or invest in research to advance the education and science of medical imaging. The trading price of our stock may be adversely affected if we are not able to continue to grow the business. We intend to continue to use our cash on hand to broaden our market penetration of our services within the industry and pursue the application of one of our technologies in the personalized medicine market. If our plans or assumptions with respect to our business change or prove to be inaccurate, we may be required to use part or all of our cash to fund general operating expenses and/or reduce costs within the organization. This will depend on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: · the lack of significant cancellations of customer contracts · the further market penetration of our products and services; and · our ability to manage and sustain the growth of our business. We currently do not plan to raise additional capital, however, if we need to raise additional capital, it may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Our failure to obtain required capital, or the acquisition of capital on less favorable terms, would have a material adverse effect on our business. If we issue additional equity securities in the future, you could experience dilution or a reduction in priority of your securities. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to factors, some of which are beyond our control, such as the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; developments concerning intellectual property rights and regulatory approvals; quarterly variations in our competitors’ results of operations; changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; developments in our industry; product liability claims or other litigation; and general market conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our own operating performance. Our common stock may be considered a “penny stock” and may be difficult to sell. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define “penny stock” to be an equity security that has a market or exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to specific exemptions. The market price of our common stock is currently below $5.00 per share and therefore may be designated as a “penny stock” according to SEC rules. This designation requires any broker or dealer selling these securities to disclose certain information concerning the transaction, obtain a written agreement from the purchaser and determine that the purchaser is reasonably suitable to purchase the securities. These rules may restrict the ability of brokers or dealers to sell our common stock and may affect the ability of our stockholders to sell their shares. 16 Our strategic alliance with PPD is an important aspect of our growth, and the market may not value our strategic alliance with PPD as we anticipate. In 2010, we formed an alliance with PPD to provide a joint solution to provide clients with an integrated and customized clinical development and medical imaging solution for oncology clinical trials. If the market does not value this model as we anticipate, our ability to grow our business may be negatively impacted. Additionally, the agreement may be terminated by either party on 90 days notice. In the event PPD terminates the agreement, we may also experience a negative impact in our ability to experience the level of growth the company has historically achieved. A significant number of the shares of our common stock are eligible for sale, and their sale could depress the market price of the our common stock. Sales of a significant number of shares of our common stock in the public market or the possibility of such sales, could harm the market price of our common stock and impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of equity securities. As of December 31, 2010, we had 27,414,620 shares of common stock outstanding. These shares are eligible for resale in the public market either immediately or subject to applicable volume, manner of sale, holding period and other limitations of Rule 144. In addition to these outstanding shares of common stock, the series B convertible preferred stock and the warrants to purchase common stock issued in our 2007 private placement are convertible into 2,774,494 shares of our common stock and registered for resale under a registration statement on Form S-3. Additionally, there are outstanding warrants issued prior to 2005 that are convertible into 444,888 shares of our common stock. There are also 2,647,191 shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of our series A convertible preferred stock and warrants sold in our November 2005 private placement, eligible for resale under Rule 144. Additionally, we have filed registration statements on Form S-8 to register the sale of up to 6,900,000 shares issued or to be issued pursuant to our Amended and Restated 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan. Finally, we have approximately 6,021,033 shares of common stock underlying options issued under our 2001, 2005, and 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plans that may be eligible for resale in the public market pursuant to an exemption under Rule 701 of the Securities Act. Sales of our common stock in the public market may have a depressive effect on the market for the shares of our common stock. Our principal stockholders have significant voting power and may take actions that may not be in the best interests of other stockholders. Our officers, directors, principal stockholders (greater than 10%) and their affiliates control approximately 30% of our outstanding voting securities. If these stockholders act together, they will be able to exert significant control over our management and affairs requiring stockholder approval, including approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and might adversely affect the market price of our common stock. This concentration of ownership may not be in the best interests of all our stockholders. We do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, and the lack of dividends may have a negative effect on the stock price. We currently intend to retain our future earnings to support operations and to finance expansion and meet dividend obligations on our series B convertible preferred stock. In addition, the terms of our series B preferred stock limit our ability to pay dividends to the holders of our common stock. Therefore, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. 17 