ITEM 1A: Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors before making an investment decision. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such cases, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Pending Transaction Failure to complete the planned BioTelemetry merger could negatively impact our stock price and financial condition and our future business and financial results. If the planned BioTelemetry merger is not completed, our ongoing business may be adversely affected, and we may be subject to several risks, including the following ·being required to reimburse BioTelemetry for the costs and expenses relating to the merger under certain circumstances as provided in the merger agreement; ·our stock price could decline to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that the planned BioTelemetry merger will be completed; and ·having had the focus of our management on the planned BioTelemetry merger instead of on pursuing other opportunities that could have been beneficial to us. If the planned BioTelemetry merger is not completed, we cannot assure you that these risks will not materialize and will not materially adversely affect our business, financial results, stock price and financial condition. We will be subject to various uncertainties while the planned BioTelemetry merger is pending that may cause disruption to our business. Uncertainty about the impact of the planned BioTelemetry merger may have an adverse effect on us. Although we intend to take steps designed to reduce any adverse effects, these uncertainties may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the planned BioTelemetry merger is completed. It could also cause vendors and customers and others that deal with us to seek to change existing business relationships with us. For more information about the planned BioTelemetry merger, see Business Overview - Planned BioTelemetry Merger. The pursuit of the planned BioTelemetry merger and the preparation for the integration may place a significant burden on management and internal resources. The diversion of management’s attention away from day-to-day business concerns and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could adversely affect our financial results. If our services do not continue to attract interest from new and existing customers, we may not maintain our current level of business or achieve future growth. If we are unable to continue to attract interest in the industry for our services, we could fail to maintain our current level of business or achieve future growth. This would have a detrimental effect on our business. Our ability to generate revenues is highly dependent on building and maintaining relationships with leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. No assurance can be given that a sufficient number of such companies will maintain or increase their demand for our services, which could limit the overall market and not enable us to increase our revenue. In addition, the rate of the growth of MRI and CT image-based biomarkers is difficult to predict. Failure to attract and maintain a significant customer base would have a detrimental effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 14 The majority of the contracts we have with customers are cancelable for any reason by giving 30 days advance notice. Our customers typically engage us to perform services for them on a project-by-project basis and are required by us to enter into a written contractual agreement for the work, labor and services to be performed. Generally, our project contracts are terminable by the customer for any or no reason on 30 days’ advance notice to us. If a number of our customers were to exercise cancellation rights, our business and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. Our reported amounts of anticipated service revenue to be earned from the backlog may not be indicative of future results. As of December 31, 2015, the amount of anticipated service revenue remaining to be earned from the backlog was approximately $36 million as compared to approximately $29 million as of December 31, 2014. Backlog represents anticipated service revenue from work not yet completed or performed under signed contracts. The majority of contracts we have with customers are cancelable for any reason by giving 30 days advance notice. We cannot assure you that this amount will be indicative of future results. Furthermore, the contracts may contemplate performance over multiple years. Therefore, revenue may not be realized in the fiscal year in which the contract is signed or the award is made. There are several factors that can affect whether we will realize the full benefits under a contract or award and the time over which we will realize that revenue including: •Customer cancellation due to performance reasons with their compounds in development; •Change in the scope of a project; •Timing of performance, including over multiple years; •Timing of patient recruitment and image site identification and training. Also, if clients delay projects, we will not generate revenue at the rate originally expected. Accordingly, the historical relationship of our reported backlog to revenues may not be indicative of future results. If we are unable to manage and sustain growth in our business, our operating results would be adversely affected. We have seen a growing demand for our image analysis services in clinical trials for pharmaceutical companies over the past year. Although there can be no assurance that growth in demand will continue or that customers will complete the clinical trial projects as awarded to us, if it does continue we may be unable to scale our capacity efficiently to meet this demand. If we are unable to do so, we may fail to maintain our operating margins or achieve expected operating margins. This may have a material and adverse effect on our operating results. Our services may become obsolete if we do not effectively respond to rapid technological change on a timely basis. Our services depend on the needs of our customers and their desire to utilize image-related services in drug and medical device development. Since the image-based biomarker industry is characterized by evolving technologies, uncertain technology and limited availability of standards, we must respond to new research findings and technological changes affecting our customers. We may not be successful in developing and marketing, on a timely and cost-effective basis, new or modified products and services, which respond to technological changes, evolving customer requirements and competition. If we are unsuccessful in this regard, our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. 15 We have a history of operating losses and future profitability is uncertain. We have incurred losses from operating activities. As we work to grow our business, we may face risks and difficulties in our business including uncertainties of maintaining our current customers, further market penetration, competition, cost increases and delays in achieving business objectives. There can be no assurance that we will succeed in addressing any or all of these risks or that we will achieve future profitability. The failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Although we believe that our services do not and will not infringe upon the patents or violate the proprietary rights of others, it is possible such infringement or violation has occurred or may occur which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Portions of our business are reliant upon patented and patentable systems and methods used in our image analysis and related intellectual property. In the event that we are deemed to infringe upon the patents or proprietary rights of others, we could be required to modify our products and services or obtain a license for the manufacture and/or sale of such services. In such event, there can be no assurance that we would be able to do so in a timely manner, upon acceptable terms and conditions, or at all, and the failure to do any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect upon our business. Moreover, there can be no assurance that we will have the financial or other resources necessary to enforce or defend a patent infringement or proprietary rights violation action. In addition, we could be subject to injunctive relief and, under certain circumstances, become liable for damages, which could also have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to pharmaceutical, medical device and healthcare industry regulations, which could adversely affect the nature and extent of the products and services we offer. Many aspects of the pharmaceutical, medical device and healthcare industry are subject to regulation at the federal level. From time to time, the regulatory entities that have jurisdiction over the industry adopt new or modified regulations or take other actions as a result of their own regulatory processes or as directed by other governmental bodies. This changing regulatory environment could adversely affect the nature and extent of the services we are able to offer. Our failure to compete effectively in our industry could cause our revenues to decline. The image analysis industry is highly competitive. We face numerous competitors in our business. If we fail to compete effectively, we will lose clients, which would cause our business to suffer. Our ability to successfully compete is dependent on many factors, including: timely and quality performance; expertise and experience in specific therapeutic areas; the scope of service offerings; strength in various geographic markets; the price of services; our competitors’ service and product offerings; our operating efficiencies in relation to other companies; the reliability of our IT infrastructure and operating system to our core business; and, our ability to upgrade our services in comparison to the service and product offerings of our competitors. If our services are not competitive based on these or other factors, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. We may in the future experience competition from academic sites, imaging CROs, and other competing technologies. Competition in the development of imaging solutions may become more widespread as with emerging technologies such as proteomics and genomics which can serve as predictive tools of drug efficacy. Competitors range from university-based research and development projects which would develop advanced tools to development stage companies and major domestic and international companies which would commercialize the tools. Some of these entities have greater financial, technical, marketing, sales, distribution and other resources than ours. There can be no assurance that we can continue to develop our technologies or that present or future competitors will not develop technologies that render our image-based biomarker industry obsolete or less marketable or that we will be able to introduce new products and product enhancements that are competitive with other products marketed by industry participants. 16 We have experienced significant demand from certain customers, thereby increasing our dependence on these customers until we can further diversify our customer base. While we continue to serve a broad range of customers, we have experienced strong demand from three of our customers in 2015 as compared to four of our customers in 2014. We depend on these customers to sustain our growth. In 2015 and 2014, these customers accounted for 62% and 77% of our revenue, respectively. We continue to see demand from other customers but not at the same significant pace as these three customers. As with all of our contracts, these customers may terminate their contractual relationships with us for any or no reason on 30 days’ advance notice. A decision by any of these customers to cancel all of its studies with us could have an adverse impact on the growth of our business. Consolidation within the pharmaceutical industry and changes within healthcare regulation may have an adverse impact on our business. Over the past few years, there have been several mergers and acquisitions among pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Historically, these transactions have positively impacted our business due to the ability to use our strong relationships within one of the merged entities to better penetrate the combined entity. However, there can be no assurance that consolidation within the industry will continue to be beneficial to us. Additionally, with the recent political landscape and changes within the healthcare industry, there may be an adverse impact on our business if the cost of imaging significantly increases or no longer becomes standard of care for patients. Although, we do not believe imaging will decline in its level of use, if it does we may need to reduce prices or invest in research to advance the education and science of medical imaging. Consolidation among our competitors could cause us to lose customers or could exert additional pressure on the prices of our services. There has been a significant amount of consolidation among providers of clinical trial imaging services and other services such as ours. Larger enterprises created through this consolidation have greater resources and efficiencies than our company and have other competitive advantages. As a result of this consolidation, competition to provide goods and services to customers has increased. Further consolidation in the industry could exert additional pressure on the prices of our products. Loss of key personnel, or failure to attract and retain additional personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success will be dependent on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees. The Board of Directors appointed director Eric Converse to serve as President and Chief Executive Officer and Jim Groff to serve as Chief Financial Officer during 2014. Leadership transitions can be inherently difficult to manage and may cause disruption to our business or further turnover in our workforce or management team. The loss of services of one or more other members of senior management would likely have a material adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, our performance also depends on our ability to attract and retain management and qualified scientific and technical operating staff. Competition for these skilled personnel is intense. The loss of services of any key executive, or inability to continue to attract and retain qualified staff could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We do not maintain any key employee insurance on any of our executives. 17 The trading price of our stock may be adversely affected if we are not able to maintain and grow our business. We intend to continue to use our cash on hand to broaden our market penetration of our services within the industry. If our plans or assumptions with respect to our business change or prove to be inaccurate, we may be required to use part or all of our cash to fund general operating expenses and/or reduce costs within the organization. We currently do not plan to raise additional capital. However, if we need to raise additional capital, it may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Our failure to obtain required capital, or the acquisition of capital on less favorable terms, would have a material adverse effect on our business. If we issue additional equity securities in the future, there could be a dilution or a reduction in priority of our outstanding securities. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to factors, some of which are beyond our control, such as the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; developments concerning intellectual property rights and regulatory approvals; quarterly variations in our competitors’ results of operations; changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; developments in our industry; product liability claims or other litigation; and general market conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our own operating performance. Our common stock may be considered a “penny stock” and may be difficult to sell. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define “penny stock” to be an equity security that has a market or exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to specific exemptions. The market price of our common stock is currently below $5.00 per share and therefore may be designated as a “penny stock” according to SEC rules. This designation requires any broker or dealer selling these securities to disclose certain information concerning the transaction, obtain a written agreement from the purchaser and determine that the purchaser is reasonably suitable to purchase the securities. These rules may restrict the ability of brokers or dealers to sell our common stock and may affect the ability of our stockholders to sell their shares. Our strategic alliance with PPD is an important aspect of our growth, and the market may not value our strategic alliance with PPD as we anticipate. In 2010, we formed an alliance with PPD to provide a joint solution to provide clients with an integrated and customized clinical development and medical imaging solution for oncology clinical trials. The alliance was expanded in January 2012 to include cardiovascular, central nervous system and medical device studies. In 2016, the alliance was amended to eliminate the marketing exclusivity portion of the agreement. If the market does not value this model as we anticipate, our ability to grow our business may be negatively impacted. Additionally, the agreement may be terminated by either party on 90 days’ notice. In the event PPD terminates the agreement, we may also experience a negative impact in our ability to experience the level of growth we have historically achieved. The inability to maintain our NASDAQ listing may adversely affect the trading market for our common stock. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain compliance with NASDAQ listing requirements, including the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement. If our common stock is delisted from NASDAQ, trading in our common stock could be conducted on the OTC Bulletin Board or in the over-the-counter market in what is commonly referred to as the "pink sheets." If this occurs, a shareholder will find it more difficult to dispose of our common stock or to obtain accurate quotations as to the price of our common stock. Lack of any active trading market would have an adverse effect on a shareholder's ability to liquidate an investment in our common stock easily and quickly at a price acceptable to the shareholder. It might also contribute to volatility in the market price of our common stock and could adversely affect our ability to raise additional equity or debt financing on acceptable terms or at all. 18 A significant number of the shares of our common stock are eligible for sale, and their sale could negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Sales of a significant number of shares of our common stock in the public market or the possibility of such sales could harm the market price of our common stock and impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of equity securities. As of December 31, 2015, we had 3,011,534 shares of common stock outstanding. These shares are eligible for resale in the public market either immediately or subject to applicable limitations of Rule 144. In addition to these outstanding shares of common stock, we also have shares to be issued upon the conversion or exercise of 443,847 outstanding options to purchase common stock, 136,132 warrants to purchase common stock and 462,094 shares of preferred stock that are convertible into common stock. We have registered on Form S-8 the sale of up to 690,000 shares issued or to be issued pursuant to our Amended and Restated 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan, of which 443,847 are subject to outstanding option awards. Sales of our common stock in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market for the shares of our common stock. Our principal stockholders have significant voting power and may take actions that may not be in the best interests of other stockholders. Our officers, directors, principal stockholders (greater than 5%) and their affiliates control approximately 30% of our outstanding voting securities. If these stockholders act together, they will be able to exert significant control over our management and affairs requiring stockholder approval, including approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and might adversely affect the market price of our common stock. This concentration of ownership may not be in the best interests of all our stockholders. We do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, and the lack of dividends may have a negative effect on the stock price. We currently intend to retain our future earnings to support operations and to finance expansion and meet dividend obligations on our series C-1 and series B convertible preferred stock. In addition, the terms of our series C-1 and series B preferred stock limit our ability to pay dividends to the holders of our common stock. Therefore, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. ITEM 2: Properties In July 2007 we began leasing approximately 19,500 square feet of office space at our corporate headquarters in Rochester, New York. In June 2012, the Company renewed its lease for five years with a lease commencement date of July 1, 2012. The base annual rent under the lease is $309,075, and increases two percent (2%) per year over the term of the lease. In May 2014, the Company entered into a lease for approximately 2,190 square feet of office space in New Hope, Pennsylvania. The lease term is for three years with a lease commencement date of June 1, 2014. The base annual rent under the lease is $54,000, and increases three percent (3%) per year over the term of the lease. ITEM 3: Legal Proceedings None. ITEM 4: Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 19 PART II ITEM 5: Market For Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our shares of common stock are listed for trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the trading symbol “VSCP.” The following table sets forth the high and low closing sales prices for our common stock as reported on the NASDAQ Capital Market for the period from January 1, 2014 through December 31, 2015. These prices do not include retail markup, markdown or commission and may not necessarily represent actual transactions. Investors should not rely on historical stock price performance as an indication of future price performance. Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2014 High Low First Quarter $4.20 $3.21 Second Quarter 5.59 3.64 Third Quarter 5.10 3.77 Fourth Quarter 4.62 3.10 Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2015 High Low First Quarter $3.50 $2.75 Second Quarter 3.40 2.58 Third Quarter 2.77 1.91 Fourth Quarter 4.50 1.80 As of March 17, 2016, we had approximately 62 registered holders of record of shares of our common stock. Dividend Policy We have never declared a cash dividend on our common stock. We intend to retain any earnings to fund future growth and the operation of our business and, therefore, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. In addition, the terms of our Series B Preferred Stock and Series C-1 Preferred Stock limit our ability to pay dividends to the holders of our common stock. Dividends may be paid on our common stock only if and when declared by our board of directors and paid on an as-converted basis to the holders of our Series A, Series B, and Series C-1 convertible preferred stock. 20 Equity Compensation Plan Information The following table summarizes information, as of December 31, 2015, relating to our equity compensation plans: Number of Securities to be Issued Upon Exercise of Outstanding Options Weighted-Average Exercise Price of Outstanding Options Number of Securities Remaining Available for Future Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans (Excluding Securities Reflected in Column Plan Category (a) (b) (c) Equity compensation plans approved by security holders 443,847(1) $6.52 191,445 (1) This amount includes shares options to purchase shares of common stock collectively, under our 2006 Long Term Incentive Plans. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities We made no sales of unregistered securities during the quarter ended December 31, 2015. Issuer Repurchases of Equity Securities None. ITEM 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with VirtualScopics’ consolidated balance sheets, and related consolidated statements of operations, changes in stockholders’ equity and cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, included elsewhere in this report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements, the accuracy of which involves risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements for many reasons including, but not limited to, those discussed in “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this report. We disclaim any obligation to update information contained in any forward-looking statements. Overview VirtualScopics, Inc. is a leading provider of imaging solutions to accelerate drug development. We have developed a robust software platform for analysis and modeling of both structural and functional medical images. In combination with our industry-leading experience and expertise in advanced imaging biomarker measurement, this platform provides a uniquely clear window into the biological activity of drugs in clinical trial patients, allowing our customers to make better decisions faster. Since inception, revenues have been derived primarily from image processing services in connection with pharmaceutical drug trials. For these services, we have been concentrating in the areas of oncology, fatty liver disease, neurology, cardiovascular, and osteoarthritis. We have also derived a small portion of revenue from consulting services. We expect that the concentration of our revenue will continue in these services and in those areas in 2016. Revenues are recognized as the medical images that we process are quantified and delivered to our customers and/or the services are performed. 21 We are focused on strengthening our core business and increasing the number of contract awards we receive. This effort includes investments in our infrastructure and sales function. We continue to submit proposals and bids for new contracts, however, there can be no assurance that we will secure or maintain contracts from these efforts. Additionally, due to recent consolidation within the industry, our pricing and services may not stay competitive with companies that have a stronger global presence. Also, there can be no assurance that the amount or timing of our investments in infrastructure and sales function will allow us to successfully compete. There are several factors that can affect whether we will realize the full benefits under any contract and the time over which we will realize that revenue. Customers may not continue our services due to many reasons including lack of demonstrated efficacy with their compounds in development. Furthermore, the contracts may contemplate performance over multiple years. Therefore, revenue may not be realized in the fiscal year in which the contract is signed or awarded. Recognition of revenue under the contract may also be affected by the timing of patient recruitment and image site identification and training. Results of Operations Results of Operations for Year Ended December 31, 2015 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2014 Revenues We had revenues of $12,717,000 for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to $10,452,000 for the year ended December 31, 2014, representing a $2,265,000 or 22% increase. The improvement in revenue was in direct correlation with strong levels of bookings during 2014 and 2015 which also contributed to the backlog increasing to approximately $36 million as of December 31, 2015 as compared to $29 million as of December 31, 2014. The backlog is maturing as studies move toward training sites and enrolling subjects which results in an increase in images being received and revenue. During 2015, we performed work on 160 projects with 59% of our business in oncology, 25% in musculoskeletal, and the remaining 16% in other therapeutic areas. This compares to 142 projects during 2014 with 51% of our business in oncology services, 32% in musculoskeletal, and the remaining 17% in other therapeutic areas. Gross Profit We had a gross profit of $4,799,000 for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to $3,362,000 for the year ended December 31, 2014. The gross margin for the year ended December 31, 2015 was 38% compared to 32% for the year ended December 31, 2014. Our gross margins tend to fluctuate based on therapeutic area mix, phase and age of a study, and specifically as it relates to the volume of revenue as there are a certain amount of fixed costs required to support the business. We believe that our margin improvement resulted from the increase in revenues, the focus on our core offerings, price structure, cost controls, and operating efficiencies which inherently resulted in higher margins. Excluding reimbursed charges our gross margin was 40% for the year ended December 31, 2015 as compared to 34% for the year ended December 31, 2014. Research and Development We had research and development costs of $1,283,000 for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to $1,245,000 for the year ended December 31, 2014, representing a $38,000 or 3% increase. The increase was attributed to the hiring of two employees in the software development group during the second and fourth quarter of 2014 to support the increase in bookings and enhancements in our infrastructure. Additionally, there was approximately $50,000 of one time employee search expenses in 2014 that did not occur in 2015, which offset the increase. Our research and development efforts center around refining our processes through the use of our software platform in order to gain efficiencies which we believe will better allow us to standardize our processes as we scale the business. We continue to invest in the commercialization of new imaging techniques across many modalities and therapeutic areas to best serve our customers. We continue to utilize our Scientific Advisory Board which we believe will help enhance and deepen our knowledge in our core competencies and allow for an exchange of ideas in each therapeutic area. 22 Sales and Marketing We had sales and marketing costs of $1,132,000 for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to $1,876,000 for the year ended December 31, 2014, representing a $744,000 or 40% decrease. There was a $98,000 decrease resulting from a reduction in the number and types of conferences attended during 2015 as compared to 2014. There was a $124,000 reduction in one time marketing expenses related to marketing material and website improvement costs that occurred in 2014 that did not reoccur in 2015. Additionally, there was a decrease in commissions of approximately $445,000 resulting from the implementation of a new compensation plan during 2015. Our sales and marketing initiatives encompass attendance and presentations at leading industry conferences, frequent educational webinars and active calling on existing and new customers as well as our continued efforts to attract new business through our strategic alliance with PPD, Inc, Micron, and IXICO, plc. In late 2010 we aligned with PPD, a leading global CRO, to provide our customers with a complete solution encompassing all services for clinical trial execution. We have recently amended the alliance to eliminate the marketing exclusivity portion of the agreement. Clients can choose from our standalone offering (with the CRO of their choice) or the joint solution offered in conjunction with PPD. In 2014, VirtualScopics and IXICO, plc, two established science-led Imaging CROs, came together in a formal commercial alliance to deliver world class imaging services to the pharmaceutical industry. Together we have extensive clinical trial experience and provide global capabilities with our offices in Rochester (New York) and New Hope (Pennsylvania) and IXICO’s offices in London (UK). In 2015, VirtualScopics entered into a collaborative agreement with Micron Inc., a Tokyo-based imaging core lab. The relationship between VirtualScopics and Micron provides a solution to mitigate the risks often associated with running a clinical study in the Asia-Pacific region. The alliances and collaborations we have with PPD, IXICO, and Micron has furthered our global reach while allowing us to advance our collaborative culture, expand our knowledge and enhance our efficiency. General and Administrative We had general and administrative costs of $2,962,000 for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to $3,350,000 for the year ended December 31, 2014, representing a $388,000 or 12% decrease. The decrease was largely attributable to a $191,000 reduction of investor relations and legal fees during 2015 as compared to 2014. In 2014 the higher legal fees were incurred as part of negotiating the office lease in Pennsylvania, visa costs for two employees, and finalizing the Scientific Advisory Board, IXICO alliance, and CEO agreements. Additionally, there were $81,000 in search expenses related to the hiring of the CEO during the third quarter of 2014 that did not occur in 2015, and we incurred $106,000 in professional fees in the performance of a FDA mock audit during 2014 that did not occur in 2015. General and administrative expenses include both personnel and non-personnel costs. Departments included within general and administrative function are finance, information technology, quality, human resources and the CEO position. Non-payroll related costs included within general and administration include stock option expense, audit and legal fees, regulatory and compliance fees, Nasdaq listing fees, board fees, non-capitalized hardware and software costs and licenses and non-sales related travel costs. Depreciation and Amortization We had depreciation and amortization costs of $414,000 for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to $314,000 for the year ended December 31, 2014, representing a $100,000 or 32% increase. The increase was related to $424,000 in capital assets purchased during 2015 and a reduction in the remaining useful lives of four patents resulting in accelerated amortization. The amortization and depreciation costs are based on the timing and life of patents and property and equipment. We continue to invest in our patent portfolio, however, we do not anticipate significant expenditures are necessary to support our current business and future strategies. Our IT systems are the basis of our operating platform. In 2016, we expect our investments to increase in our IT infrastructure to ensure we have a robust and reliable operating system. 23 Other income (expense), net We had other expense of $50,000 for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to other income of $1,000 for the year ended December 31, 2014, representing a $51,000 or 4443% decrease. The decrease was a result of interest expense from capital lease obligations and the amortization of debt issuance costs associated with entering into the line of credit. Net Loss We had a net loss of $1,042,000 for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to a net loss of $3,422,000 for the year ended December 31, 2014, representing a $2,380,000 or 66% improvement. The improvement in our net loss was primarily related to the increase in revenue and margins recognized during 2015 and lower operating expenses as compared to the previous comparable period in 2014. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our working capital as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 was approximately $2,493,000 and $3,294,000, respectively. The decrease in working capital was primarily a result of continued losses, dividend payments, and cash used to purchase property and equipment. We do not expect, nor have we experienced significant write-offs of our receivables; however, we continue to see an extension of payment terms within the industry and with several of our largest customers. Net cash used in operating activities totaled $1,336,000 in the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to net cash used in operating activities of $2,857,000 in the comparable 2014 period. Cash used in operations improved during 2015 as compared to 2014 due to the reduction in losses and an increase in the number of customers paying upfront payments especially in the fourth quarter of 2015. We invested $245,000 for the purchase of equipment and the costs in patent applications and their maintenance in 2015, compared to $301,000 for the investment in these items in 2014. The decrease in cash used for the purchase of equipment was the result of the Company entering into $202,000 in lease agreements to purchase network data storage equipment and computers as referenced in Note 11 Capital Lease Obligation. In 2016, we are planning to invest in our operating systems and infrastructure in connection with our core business. We believe these planned investments will help further enhance our abilities as a Phase III provider and continue to improve our operational efficiencies. This will be contingent on the availability of financing as referenced in Note 2 Liquidity and Financial Condition. There was $31,000 in cash used in our financing activities during 2015 as compared to $126,000 in 2014. There was $168,000 in Series C-1 and Series B preferred stock cash dividends resulting from the Series C-1 stockholders electing to receive cash dividends in 2015 as compared to $126,000 in 2014. During the third quarter of 2015, the Company entered into a note agreement in the amount of $205,000 which was used to acquire certain specialized software. Additionally, the Company entered into master equipment leases as referenced above and a line of credit facility that resulted in $42,000 of debt issuance costs. On August 7, 2015, the Company entered into a Loan and Security Agreement with a financial institution pursuant to which the Company obtained a revolving line of credit. The maximum amount that the Company may borrow at any time under the line of credit is $2,000,000 subject to a borrowing base equal to a percentage of the Company’s eligible accounts receivable. Initially, the borrowing base is equal to 80% of eligible accounts receivable. The decision to extend credit under the line of credit, the percentage of eligible accounts making up the borrowing base and the accounts eligible for inclusion in the borrowing base are all subject to the discretion of the financial institution. Interest on the principal amount outstanding under the line of credit accrues at the prime rate published by the Wall Street Journal plus 1.00% per annum and is payable monthly. The line of credit requires the Company to comply with various affirmative and negative covenants, including a covenant regarding minimum “Adjusted EBITDA” as defined in the agreement. As of December 31, 2015, the principal amount outstanding under the revolving line of credit was $0 and $2 million was available to borrow under the revolving line of credit. The Company was in compliance with all covenants under the revolving line of credit as of December 31, 2015. 24 We currently anticipate that our cash will be sufficient to meet our working capital requirements to continue our sales and marketing and research and development efforts for at least the next 12 months. Our future plans and growth are dependent on our ability to continue our business development efforts surrounding our project award backlog, increasing our operating efficiencies, and in turn, increasing the revenues of the Company. If in the future, our plans or assumptions change or prove to be inaccurate, we may be required to seek additional capital through public or private debt or equity financings, corporate collaborations or other means. We may also be required to reduce our operating expenditures and investments in our infrastructure especially if revenues are not realized as expected from our backlog. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no off-balance sheet arrangements, other than operating leases (as described in “Contractual Obligations” below) that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect that is material to investors on our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital resources or capital expenditures. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at December 31, 2015 which we expect to have an effect on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods. (See Item 