ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Our industry is affected by global economic factors including risks associated with volatile economic conditions. Our financial results are substantially dependent on overall economic conditions in the U.S., Europe and Asia. Declining economic conditions in all or any of these locations—or negative perceptions about economic conditions—could result in a substantial decrease in demand for our products and could adversely affect our business. In particular, our operations in Europe continue to be impacted by the uncertain European economy. While we currently anticipate that, in the aggregate, our business in Europe will grow slowly, a currency or financial crisis in Europe could precipitate a significant decline in the European economy, which would likely result in a decrease in demand for our products in Europe. Uncertain economic conditions and market instability make it particularly difficult for us to forecast demand trends. The timing and extent of any changes to currently prevailing market conditions is uncertain, and supply and demand may be unbalanced at any time. As a consequence, we may not be able to accurately predict future economic conditions or the effect of such conditions on our financial condition or results of operations. We can give no assurances as to the timing, extent or duration of the current or future economic cycles impacting the chemical industry. The markets for many of our products are cyclical and volatile, and we may experience depressed market conditions for such products. Historically, the markets for many of our products have experienced alternating periods of tight supply, causing prices and profit margins to increase, followed by periods of capacity additions, resulting in oversupply and declining prices and profit margins. The volatility these markets experience occurs as a result of changes in the supply and demand for products, changes in energy prices and changes in various other economic conditions around the world. For example, demand for our products depends in part on the housing and construction industries. These industries are cyclical in nature and have historically been impacted by downturns in the economy. The cyclicality and volatility of our industry results in significant fluctuations in profits and cash flow from period to period and over the business cycle. Disruptions in production at our manufacturing facilities, both planned and unplanned, may have a material impact on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. Manufacturing facilities in our industry are subject to planned and unplanned production shutdowns, turnarounds and outages. Unplanned production disruptions may occur for external reasons including natural disasters, weather, disease, strikes, transportation interruption, government regulation, political unrest or terrorism, or internal reasons, such as fire, unplanned maintenance or other manufacturing problems. Alternative facilities with sufficient capacity may not be available, may cost substantially more or may take a significant time to increase production or qualify with our customers, each of which could negatively impact our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. Long-term production disruptions may cause our customers to seek alternative supply which could further adversely affect our profitability. 33 Table of Contents Our results of operations may be adversely affected by international business risks, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates, legal restrictions and taxes. We conduct a majority of our business operations outside the U.S., and these operations are subject to risks normally associated with international operations. These risks include the need to convert currencies that may be received for our products into currencies in which we purchase raw materials or pay for services, which could result in a gain or loss depending on fluctuations in exchange rates. In addition, we translate our local currency financial results into U.S. dollars based on average exchange rates prevailing during the reporting period or the exchange rate at the end of that period. During times of a strengthening U.S. dollar, our reported international sales and earnings may be reduced because the local currency may translate into fewer U.S. dollars. Because we currently have significant operations located outside the U.S., we are exposed to fluctuations in global currency rates which may result in gains or losses on our financial statements. Other risks of international operations include trade barriers, tariffs, exchange controls, national and regional labor strikes, social and political risks, general economic risks and required compliance with a variety of U.S. and foreign laws, including tax laws, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (and foreign equivalents), export controls and OFAC regulations. In addition, although we maintain an anti-corruption compliance program throughout our Company, violations of our compliance program may result in criminal or civil sanctions, including material monetary fines, penalties and other costs against us or our employees, and may have a material adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, in foreign jurisdictions where process of law may vary from country to country, we may experience difficulty in enforcing agreements. In jurisdictions where bankruptcy laws and practices may vary, we may experience difficulty collecting foreign receivables through foreign legal systems. The occurrence of these risks, among others, could disrupt the businesses of our international subsidiaries, which could significantly affect their ability to make distributions to us. We operate in a significant number of jurisdictions, which contributes to the volatility of our effective tax rate. Changes in tax laws or the interpretation of tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate may affect our effective tax rate. In addition, generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. ("GAAP" or "U.S. GAAP") has required us to place valuation allowances against our net operating losses and other deferred tax assets in a significant number of tax jurisdictions. These valuation allowances result from analysis of positive and negative evidence supporting the realization of tax benefits. Negative evidence includes a cumulative history of pre-tax operating losses in specific tax jurisdictions. Changes in valuation allowances have resulted in material fluctuations in our effective tax rate. Economic conditions may dictate the continued imposition of the current valuation allowances and potentially the establishment of new valuation allowances. While significant valuation allowances remain, our effective tax rate will likely continue to experience significant fluctuations. If we are unable to execute our cost reduction plans successfully, our total operating costs may be greater than expected, which may adversely affect our profitability. We have commenced a number of actions to restructure our Polyurethanes, Textile Effects and Advanced Materials segments to improve our earnings profile. We are in the process of implementing these programs and have realized a portion of the anticipated benefits. While we continue to search for opportunities to reduce our costs and expenses to improve operating profitability without jeopardizing the quality of our products or the effectiveness of our operations, our success in achieving targeted cost and expense reductions depends upon a number of factors. If we do not successfully execute on our cost reduction initiatives or if we experience delays in completing the implementation of these initiatives, our results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected. 34 Table of Contents Our efforts to grow our businesses may require significant investments; if our growth strategies are unsuccessful, our business, results of operations and/or financial condition may be materially adversely affected. We continuously evaluate growth opportunities. Our growth initiatives may involve making acquisitions, entering into partnerships and joint ventures, and building new facilities—any of which could require a significant investment. We have incurred indebtedness to finance growth initiatives, and we may incur additional indebtedness to finance future growth initiatives. We could also issue additional shares of stock to finance such initiatives. If our growth strategies are not successful, we could face increased financial pressure, such as increased cash flow demands, reduced liquidity and diminished access to financial markets. In addition, the implementation of growth strategies may create additional risks, including: •diversion of management focus away from existing operations; •impairment of the operation of our business due to capital or equity commitments; •inability to accurately predict the costs and benefits of acquisitions, partnerships, joint ventures or new facilities; •inability to efficiently operate new businesses or to integrate acquired businesses; •disruptions to important business relationships; •increased operating costs; •difficulties in realizing projected synergies; •exposure to unanticipated liabilities, including for illegal activities conducted by an acquired company or a joint venture partner; and •usage of limited investment and other baskets under our debt covenants. All of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Significant price volatility or interruptions in supply of our raw materials may result in increased costs that we may be unable to pass on to our customers, which could reduce our profitability. The prices of the raw materials that we purchase from third parties are cyclical and volatile. We purchase a substantial portion of our raw materials from third-party suppliers. The cost of these raw materials represents a substantial portion of our operating expenses. The prices for a number of these raw materials generally follow price trends of, and vary with market conditions for, crude oil and natural gas feedstocks, which are highly volatile and cyclical. In general, the feedstocks and other raw materials we consume are organic commodity products that are readily available at market prices. However, ore feedstocks for our Pigments segment are periodically in short supply. We frequently enter into supply agreements with particular suppliers, but disruptions of existing supply arrangements or expiration of favorable supply contracts could substantially impact our profitability. If certain of our suppliers are unable to meet their obligations under present supply agreements, we may be forced to pay higher prices to obtain the necessary raw materials from other sources and we may not be able to increase prices for our finished products to recoup the higher raw materials costs. In addition, if raw materials become unavailable within a geographic area from which they are now sourced, then we may not be able to obtain suitable or cost effective substitutes. Any interruption in the supply of raw materials could increase our costs or decrease our revenues, which could reduce our cash flow. 35 Table of Contents Our supply agreements typically provide for market-based pricing and provide us only limited protection against price volatility. While we attempt to match cost increases with corresponding product price increases, we are not always able to raise product prices immediately or at all. Timing differences between raw material prices, which may change daily, and contract product prices, which in many cases are negotiated only monthly or less often, have had and may continue to have a negative effect on our cash flow. Any cost increase that we are not able to pass on to our customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Financial difficulties and related problems at our customers, vendors, suppliers and other business partners could have a material adverse effect on our business. During periods of economic disruption, more of our customers than normal may experience financial difficulties, including bankruptcies, restructurings and liquidations, which could affect our business by reducing sales, increasing our risk in extending trade credit to customers and reducing our profitability. A significant adverse change in a customer relationship or in a customer's financial position could cause us to limit or discontinue business with that customer, require us to assume more credit risk relating to that customer's receivables or limit our ability to collect accounts receivable from that customer. In addition, we rely on a number of vendors and suppliers and collaborations with other industry participants to provide us with chemicals, feedstocks and other raw materials, along with energy sources and, in certain cases, facilities, that we need to operate our business. During periods of economic disruption, some of these companies could be forced to reduce their output, shut down their operations or file for bankruptcy protection. If this were to occur, it could adversely affect their ability to provide us with the raw materials, energy sources or facilities that we need, which could materially disrupt our operations, including the production of certain of our products. Moreover, it could be difficult to find replacements for certain of our business partners without incurring significant delays or cost increases. All of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. The industries in which we compete are highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete effectively with our competitors that have greater financial resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive. Among our competitors are some of the world's largest chemical companies and major integrated petroleum companies that have their own raw material resources. Changes in the competitive landscape could make it difficult for us to retain our leadership position in various products and markets throughout the world. In addition, some of the companies with whom we compete may be able to produce products more economically than we can. Furthermore, some of our competitors have greater financial resources, which may enable them to invest significant capital into their businesses, including expenditures for research and development. Some of our competitors are owned or partially owned by foreign governments which may provide a competitive advantage to those competitors. While we are engaged in a range of research and development programs to develop new products and processes, to improve and refine existing products and processes, and to develop new applications for existing products, the failure to develop new products, processes or applications could make us less competitive. Moreover, if any of our current or future competitors develops proprietary technology that enables them to produce products at a significantly lower cost, our technology could be rendered uneconomical or obsolete. Further, it is possible we could be named in future litigation for the infringement or misappropriation of a competitor's or other third party's intellectual property rights, which could include a claim for injunctive relief and damages, and, if so, that adverse results could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. 36 Table of Contents In addition, certain of our businesses use technology that is widely available. Accordingly, barriers to entry, apart from capital availability, may be low in certain product segments of our business, and the entrance of new competitors into the industry may reduce our ability to capture improving profit margins in circumstances where capacity utilization in the industry is increasing. Further, petroleum-rich countries have become more significant participants in the petrochemical industry and may expand this role significantly in the future. Increased competition in any of our businesses could compel us to reduce the prices of our products, which could result in reduced profit margins and loss of market share and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Our significant debt level, a portion of which is subject to variable interest rates, makes us vulnerable to downturns and may limit our ability to respond to market conditions or to obtain additional financing. We have significant outstanding debt: as of December 31, 2012, our total consolidated outstanding debt was approximately $3,702 million (including current portion of debt); our debt to total capitalization ratio was approximately 66%; our combined outstanding variable rate borrowings were approximately $2.1 billion; and our current portion of debt totaled approximately $288 million. Our debt level, and the fact that a significant percentage of our cash flow is required to make payments on our debt, could have important consequences for our business, including but not limited to the following: •we may be more vulnerable to business, industry or economic downturns, making it more difficult to respond to market conditions; •cash flow available for other purposes, including the growth of our business, may be reduced; •our ability to obtain additional financing may be constrained, particularly during periods when the capital markets are unsettled; •our competitors with lower debt levels may have a competitive advantage relative to us; and •part of our debt is subject to variable interest rates, which makes us more vulnerable to increases in interest rates (for example, a 1% increase in interest rates, without giving effect to interest rate hedges or other offsetting items, would increase our annual interest rate expense by approximately $21 million). Our debt level also impacts our credit ratings. Any decision by credit rating agencies to downgrade our debt ratings could restrict our ability to obtain additional financing and could result in increased interest and other costs. Agreements governing our debt may restrict our ability to engage in certain business activities or to obtain additional financing. The agreements governing our debt arrangements contain certain restrictive covenants. These covenants may limit or prohibit our ability to incur more debt; make certain prepayments of debt; pay dividends, redeem stock or make other distributions; issue stock; make investments; create liens; enter into transactions with affiliates; enter into sale and leaseback transactions; merge or consolidate; and transfer or sell assets. Our failure to comply with any of our debt covenants, or our failure to make payments of principal or interest on our debt, could result in a default, or trigger cross-default or acceleration provisions, under our debt agreements. An event of default could result in our debt obligations becoming immediately due and payable, cause our creditors to terminate their lending commitments, or force us or one or more of our subsidiaries into bankruptcy or liquidation. Any of the foregoing occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For 37 Table of Contents more information regarding our debt covenants, see "Note 14. Debt—Direct and Subsidiary Debt—Compliance with Covenants" to our consolidated financial statements. Natural or other disasters could disrupt our business and result in loss of revenue or in higher expenses. Any serious disruption at any of our facilities due to hurricane, fire, earthquake, flood or any other natural or man-made disaster could impair our ability to use our facilities and have a material impact on our revenues and increase our costs and expenses. If there is a natural disaster or other serious disruption at any of these facilities, it could impair our ability to adequately supply our customers and negatively impact our operating results. In addition, many of our current and potential customers are concentrated in specific geographic areas including the U.S. Gulf Coast, which is subject to hurricanes. A disaster in one of these regions could have a material impact on our operations, operating results and financial condition. While we maintain business recovery plans that are intended to allow us to recover from natural disasters or other events that could disrupt our business, we cannot provide assurances that our plans would fully protect us from all such disasters or events that might result due to climate change. In addition, insurance may not adequately compensate us from any losses incurred as a result of natural or other disasters. Furthermore, in areas prone to frequent natural or other disasters, insurance may become increasingly expensive or not available at all. Our operations involve risks that may increase our operating costs, which could reduce our profitability. Although we take precautions to enhance the safety of our operations and minimize the risk of disruptions, our operations are subject to hazards inherent in the manufacturing and marketing of chemical products. These hazards include: chemical spills, pipeline leaks and ruptures, storage tank leaks, discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases and other hazards incident to the manufacturing, processing, handling, transportation and storage of dangerous chemicals. We are also potentially subject to other hazards, including natural disasters and severe weather; explosions and fires; transportation problems, including interruptions, spills and leaks; mechanical failures; unscheduled downtimes; labor difficulties; remediation complications; and other risks. Many potential hazards can cause bodily injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and environmental damage, and may result in suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties and liabilities. Furthermore, we are subject to present and future claims with respect to workplace exposure, exposure of contractors on our premises as well as other persons located nearby, workers' compensation and other matters. We maintain property, business interruption, products liability and casualty insurance policies which we believe are in accordance with customary industry practices, as well as insurance policies covering other types of risks, including pollution legal liability insurance, but we are not fully insured against all potential hazards and risks incident to our business. Each of these insurance policies is subject to customary exclusions, deductibles and coverage limits, in accordance with industry standards and practices. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially and, in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. If we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. In addition, we are subject to various claims and litigation in the ordinary course of business. We are a party to various pending lawsuits and proceedings. For more information, see "—Item 3. Legal Proceedings—Antitrust Matters" below. It is possible that judgments could be rendered against us in these cases or others in which we could be uninsured or not covered by indemnity and beyond the amounts that we currently have reserved or anticipate incurring for such matters. 38 Table of Contents Our operations, financial condition and liquidity could be adversely affected by legal claims against us, including antitrust claims. We face risks arising from various legal actions, including matters relating to antitrust, product liability, intellectual property and environmental claims. Over the past few years, antitrust claims have been made against chemical companies, and we have been named as a defendant in the antitrust suits discussed in "—Item 3. Legal Proceedings—Antitrust Matters" below. In this type of litigation, the plaintiffs generally seek treble damages, which may be significant. An adverse outcome in any antitrust claim could be material and significantly impact our operations, financial condition and liquidity. We are subject to many environmental, health and safety regulations that may result in unanticipated costs or liabilities, which could reduce our profitability. We are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations, rules and ordinances relating to pollution, protection of the environment and human health and safety, and the generation, storage, handling, transportation, treatment, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances and waste materials. Actual or alleged violations of environmental, health and safety or EHS, laws or permit requirements could result in restrictions or prohibitions on plant operations and substantial civil or criminal sanctions, as well as, under some EHS laws, the assessment of strict liability and/or joint and several liability. Governmental, regulatory and societal demands for increasing levels of product safety and environmental protection could result in increased pressure for more stringent regulatory control with respect to the chemical industry. In addition, these concerns could influence public perceptions regarding our products and operations, the viability of certain products, our reputation, the cost to comply with regulations, and the ability to attract and retain employees. Moreover, changes in EHS regulations could inhibit or interrupt our operations, or require us to modify our facilities or operations. Accordingly, environmental or regulatory matters may cause us to incur significant unanticipated losses, costs or liabilities, which could reduce our profitability. We could incur significant expenditures in order to comply with existing or future EHS laws. Capital expenditures and costs relating to EHS matters will be subject to evolving regulatory requirements and will depend on the timing of the promulgation and enforcement of specific standards which impose requirements on our operations. Capital expenditures and costs beyond those currently anticipated may therefore be required under existing or future EHS laws. Furthermore, we may be liable for the costs of investigating and cleaning up environmental contamination on or from our properties or at off-site locations where we disposed of or arranged for the disposal or treatment of hazardous materials or from disposal activities that pre-dated our purchase of our businesses. We may therefore incur additional costs and expenditures beyond those currently anticipated to address all such known and unknown situations under existing and future EHS laws. We are subject to risks relating to our information technology systems, and any failure to adequately protect our critical information technology systems could materially affect our operations. We rely on information technology systems across our operations, including for management, supply chain and financial information and various other processes and transactions. Our ability to effectively manage our business depends on the security, reliability and capacity of these systems. Information technology system failures, network disruptions or breaches of security could disrupt our operations, causing delays or cancellation of customer orders or impeding the manufacture or shipment of products, processing of transactions or reporting of financial results. An attack or other problem with our systems could also result in the disclosure of proprietary information about our business or confidential information concerning our customers or employees, which could result in significant damage to our business and our reputation. 39 Table of Contents We have put in place security measures designed to protect against the misappropriation or corruption of our systems, intentional or unintentional disclosure of confidential information, or disruption of our operations. Current employees have, and former employees may have, access to a significant amount of information regarding our operations which could be disclosed to our competitors or otherwise used to harm us. Moreover, our operations in certain locations, such as China, may be particularly vulnerable to security attacks or other problems. Any breach of our security measures could result in unauthorized access to and misappropriation of our information, corruption of data or disruption of operations or transactions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we could be required to expend significant additional amounts to respond to information technology issues or to protect against threatened or actual security breaches. We may not be able to implement measures that will protect against all of the significant risks to our information technology systems. Regulatory or market changes with respect to MTBE may materially reduce our sales and/or materially increase our costs. We produce MTBE, an oxygenate that is blended with gasoline to reduce vehicle air emissions and to enhance the octane rating of gasoline. Because MTBE has contaminated some water supplies, its use has become controversial in the U.S. and elsewhere, and its use has been effectively eliminated in the U.S. market. We currently market MTBE, either directly or through third parties, to gasoline additive customers located outside the U.S. This business has been profitable to us over time, and future legislative or regulatory initiatives outside the U.S. restricting MTBE could materially adversely affect our ability to market and sell MTBE and our profitability. We have recently announced a joint venture with Sinopec involving the construction and operation of a PO/MTBE facility in China, which will further expose us to these risks. While we could use all or a portion of our precursor TBA to produce saleable products other than MTBE, this would require significant capital expenditures to modify our facilities. Moreover, the sale of other products would produce a lower level of cash flow than that historically produced from the sale of MTBE. Our business is dependent on our intellectual property. If our intellectual property rights cannot be enforced or our trade secrets become known to our competitors, our ability to compete may be adversely affected. Proprietary protection of our processes, apparatuses and other technology is important to our business. While a presumption of validity exists with respect to patents issued to us in the U.S., there can be no assurance that any of our patents will not be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. Furthermore, if any pending patent application filed by us does not result in an issued patent, or if patents are issued to us, but such patents do not provide meaningful protection of our intellectual property, then our ability to compete may be adversely affected. Additionally, our competitors or other third parties may obtain patents that restrict or preclude our ability to lawfully produce or sell our products in a competitive manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We also rely upon unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation and other trade secrets to develop and maintain our competitive position. While it is our policy to enter into agreements imposing confidentiality obligations upon our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual property, these confidentiality obligations may be breached, may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or proprietary know-how, or adequate remedies may not be available in the event of an unauthorized access, use or disclosure of our trade secrets and know-how. 40 Table of Contents In addition, others could obtain knowledge of our trade secrets through independent development or other access by legal means. We may have to rely on judicial enforcement of our patents and other proprietary rights. We may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property rights from misappropriation or infringement in countries where effective patent, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws and judicial systems may be unavailable, or may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as U.S. law. The failure of our patents or confidentiality agreements to protect our processes, apparatuses, technology, trade secrets or proprietary know-how or the failure of adequate legal remedies for related actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Loss of key members of our management could disrupt our business. We depend on the continued employment and performance of our senior executives and other key members of management. If any of these individuals resigns or becomes unable to continue in his or her present role and is not adequately replaced, our business operations and our ability to implement our growth strategies could be materially disrupted. We generally do not have employment agreements with, and we do not maintain any "key person" life insurance for, any of our executive officers. Conflicts, military actions, terrorist attacks and general instability, in particular in certain energy-producing nations, along with increased security regulations related to our industry, could adversely affect our business. Conflicts, military actions and terrorist attacks have precipitated economic instability and turmoil in financial markets. Instability and turmoil, particularly in energy-producing nations, may result in raw material cost increases. The uncertainty and economic disruption resulting from hostilities, military action or acts of terrorism may impact any or all of our facilities and operations or those of our suppliers or customers. Accordingly, any conflict, military action or terrorist attack that impacts us or any of our suppliers or customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. In addition, a number of governments have instituted regulations attempting to increase the security of chemical plants and the transportation of hazardous chemicals, which could result in higher operating costs and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity. If our subsidiaries do not make sufficient distributions to us, then we will not be able to make payment on our debts. Our debt is generally the exclusive obligation of Huntsman International and our guarantor subsidiaries. Because a significant portion of our operations are conducted by nonguarantor subsidiaries, our cash flow and our ability to service indebtedness, including our ability to pay the interest on our debt when due and principal of such debt at maturity, are dependent to a large extent upon cash dividends and distributions or other transfers from such nonguarantor subsidiaries. Any payment of dividends, distributions, loans or advances by our nonguarantor subsidiaries to us could be subject to restrictions on dividends or repatriation of earnings under applicable local law, monetary transfer restrictions and foreign currency exchange regulations in the jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate, and any restrictions imposed by the current and future debt instruments of our nonguarantor subsidiaries. In addition, payments to us by our subsidiaries are contingent upon our subsidiaries' earnings. Our subsidiaries are separate legal entities and, except for our guarantor subsidiaries, have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay any amounts due on our debt or to make any funds 41 Table of Contents available for those amounts, whether by dividends, loans, distributions or other payments, and do not guarantee the payment of interest on, or principal of, our debt. Any right that we have to receive any assets of any of our subsidiaries that are not guarantors upon the liquidation or reorganization of any such subsidiary, and the consequent right of holders of notes to realize proceeds from the sale of their assets, will be structurally subordinated to the claims of that subsidiary's creditors, including trade creditors and holders of debt issued by that subsidiary. Regulatory requirements to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Globally, our operations are increasingly subject to regulations that seek to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, or GHGs, such as carbon dioxide and methane, which may be contributing to changes in the Earth's climate. At the most recent negotiations of the Conference of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol, a limited group of nations, including the EU, agreed to a second commitment period for the Kyoto Protocol, an international treaty that provides for reductions in GHG emissions. More significantly, the European Union GHG Emissions Trading System, established pursuant to the Kyoto Protocol to reduce GHG emissions in the EU, has just entered its third phase and ongoing reforms at the EU level—including measures to prop up carbon credit prices and ban the use of certain types of certified emission reductions—may increase our operating costs. Australia has also adopted a carbon trading system that has been recognized for formal linkage with the EU trading system by 2018. Australia's GHG cap-and-trade program may impose compliance obligations upon our operations that may increase our operating costs. In the United States, California has commenced the first compliance period of its cap-and-trade program. Federal climate change legislation in the United States appears unlikely in the near-term. As a result, domestic efforts to curb GHG emissions will be led by the EPA's GHG regulations and the efforts of states. To the extent that our domestic operations are subject to the EPA's GHG regulations, we may face increased capital and operating costs associated with new or expanded facilities. Expansions of our existing facilities or construction of new facilities may be subject to the Clean Air Act's Prevention of Significant Deterioration requirements under the EPA's GHG "Tailoring Rule." Our facilities are also subject to the EPA's Mandatory Reporting of Greenhouse Gases rule, and the collection and reporting of GHG data may increase our operational costs. Under a consent decree with states and environmental groups, the EPA is due to propose new source performance standards (NSPS) for GHG emissions from refineries. These standards could significantly increase the costs of constructing or adding capacity to refineries and may ultimately increase the costs or decrease the supply of refined products. Either of these events could have an adverse effect on our business. We are already managing and reporting GHG emissions, to varying degrees, as required by law for our sites in locations subject to Kyoto Protocol obligations and/or EU emissions trading scheme requirements. Although these sites are subject to existing GHG legislation, few have experienced or anticipate significant cost increases as a result of these programs, although it is possible that GHG emission restrictions may increase over time. Potential consequences of such restrictions include capital costs to modify operations as necessary to meet GHG emission limits and/or additional in energy costs, as well as direct compliance costs. Currently, however, it is not possible to estimate the likely financial impact of potential future regulation on any of our sites. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, floods and other climatic events. If any of those effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our facilities and operations. 42 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK AND DEBT SECURITIES Our stock price has been and may continue to be subject to large fluctuations. We have experienced significant fluctuations in our stock price and share trading volume in the past and may continue to do so. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of issues, including broad market factors that may have a material adverse impact on our stock price, regardless of actual performance. The following factors could affect our stock price: •periodic variations in the actual or anticipated financial results of our business or that of our competitors; •downward revisions in securities analysts' estimates of our future operating results or of the future operating results of our competitors; •material announcements by us or our competitors; •public sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock; and •adverse changes in general market conditions or economic trends or in conditions or trends in the markets in which we operate. Shares available for future sale may cause our common stock price to decline, which may negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. Sales of substantial numbers of additional shares of our common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, may cause prevailing market prices for shares of our common stock to decline. We have the ability to issue additional equity securities, which would lead to further dilution of our issued and outstanding common stock. The issuance of additional equity securities would result in dilution of then-existing stockholders' equity interests in our Company. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors, without stockholder approval, to establish one or more series of preferred stock and to determine, with respect to any series of preferred stock, the number of shares in that series and the terms, rights and limitations of that series. If we issue convertible notes or convertible preferred stock, a subsequent conversion may dilute the current common stockholders' interest. Our Board of Directors has no present intention of issuing any such convertible instruments, but reserves the right to do so in the future. In addition, we may issue additional shares of common stock under our equity incentive plans. Certain provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could discourage a takeover attempt, which may reduce or eliminate the likelihood of a change of control transaction and, therefore, limit your ability to sell our common stock at a price higher than the current market value. Certain provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, such as a classified board of directors, limitations on stockholder proposals at meetings of stockholders and the inability of stockholders to call special meetings and certain provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of our Company, even if some of our stockholders considered such a change of control to be beneficial. Our certificate of incorporation also authorizes our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. Therefore, our Board of Directors could elect to issue preferred stock that has special voting or other rights that could make it even more difficult for a third party to acquire us, which may reduce or eliminate your ability to sell our common stock at a price higher than the current market value. 43 Table of Contents The declaration of dividends by our Company is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and limitations under Delaware law, and there can be no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends. Over the past four years we have paid quarterly dividends on our common stock. The declaration of dividends by our Company is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors. Our Board of Directors takes into account such matters as general business conditions, our financial results, expected liquidity and capital expenditure requirements, contractual, legal or regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends, the effect on our debt ratings and such other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant, and we can provide no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends on our common stock. In addition, Delaware law contains certain restrictions on a company's ability to pay cash dividends and we can provide no assurance that those restrictions will not prevent us from paying a dividend in future periods. Jon M. Huntsman, our Executive Chairman and founder, may be deemed to control approximately 16% of our outstanding common stock and he may have the ability to substantially impact the outcome of matters voted on by our stockholders. Jon M. Huntsman, our Executive Chairman and founder, may be deemed to control approximately 16% of our outstanding common stock. Through his interests, he may have the ability to substantially impact: •the election of the members of the Board of Directors of our Company; •the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including amendments to our certificate of incorporation, mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets; and •any potential change in control of our Company. We may purchase a portion of our debt securities, which could impact the market for our debt securities and likely would negatively affect our liquidity. During 2012, we redeemed certain of our debt securities. We may from time to time seek to repurchase or redeem more of our debt securities in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions, tender offers, partial or full call for redemption or otherwise. Any such repurchases or redemptions and the timing and amount thereof would depend on prevailing market conditions, liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. Such transactions could negatively affect our liquidity. 44 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS As of the date of this filing, we did not have any unresolved comments from the staff of the SEC. 