ITEM 1A: Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors before making an investment decision. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such cases, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. If our products and services do not continue to attract interest from new and existing customers, we may not achieve future growth. If we are unable to continue to attract interest in the industry for our services, we could fail to achieve future growth which would have a detrimental effect on our business. Our ability to generate revenues is highly dependent on building and maintaining relationships with leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. No assurance can be given that a sufficient number of such companies will increase their demand for our services, thereby limiting the overall market for quantitative imaging services and not enable us to increase our revenue to the extent expected. In addition, the rate of the growth of MRI and CT image-based biomarkers is difficult to predict. Failure to attract and maintain a significant customer base would have a detrimental effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The majority of the contracts we have with customers are cancelable for any reason by giving 30 days advance notice. Our customers typically engage us to perform services for them on a project-by-project basis and are required by us to enter into a written contractual agreement for the work, labor and services to be performed. Generally, our project contracts are terminable by the customer for any or no reason on 30 days’ advance notice to us. If a number of our customers were to exercise cancellation rights, our business and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to manage and sustain our growth, our operating results would be adversely affected. We have seen a growing demand for our image analysis services over the past several years. We are also planning to seek growth through the expansion of the use of quantitative imaging into new markets. Although there can be no assurance that our past growth will continue, if it does continue we may be unable to scale our capacity efficiently to meet this demand. If we are unable to do so, we may fail to maintain our operating margins or achieve expected operating margins. This may have a material and adverse effect on our operating results. 14 Our services may become obsolete if we do not effectively respond to rapid technological change on a timely basis. Our services depend on the needs of our customers and their desire to utilize image-related services in drug and medical device development and clinical diagnosis and treatment. Since the image-based biomarker industry is characterized by evolving technologies, uncertain technology and limited availability of standards, we must respond to new research findings and technological changes affecting our customers. We may not be successful in developing and marketing, on a timely and cost-effective basis, new or modified products and services, which respond to technological changes, evolving customer requirements and competition. If we are unsuccessful in this regard, our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. We have a history of operating losses and uncertain future profitability. Since its inception there have been periods where VirtualScopics incurred losses from operating activities. As we work to grow our business, we may face risks and difficulties in our business including uncertainties of further market penetration, competition, cost increases and delays in achieving business objectives. There can be no assurance that we will succeed in addressing any or all of these risks or that we will achieve future profitability and the failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Although we believe that our products and services do not and will not infringe upon the patents or violate the proprietary rights of others, it is possible such infringement or violation has occurred or may occur which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Portions of our business are reliant upon patented and patentable systems and methods used in our image analysis and related intellectual property. In the event that products and services we sell are deemed to infringe upon the patents or proprietary rights of others, we could be required to modify our products and services or obtain a license for the manufacture and/or sale of such products and services. In such event, there can be no assurance that we would be able to do so in a timely manner, upon acceptable terms and conditions, or at all, and the failure to do any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect upon our business. Moreover, there can be no assurance that we will have the financial or other resources necessary to enforce or defend a patent infringement or proprietary rights violation action. In addition, if our products and services or proposed products and services are deemed to infringe or likely to infringe upon the patents or proprietary rights of others, we could be subject to injunctive relief and, under certain circumstances, become liable for damages, which could also have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to pharmaceutical, medical device and healthcare industry regulations, which could adversely affect the nature and extent of the products and services we offer. Many aspects of the pharmaceutical, medical device and healthcare industry are subject to regulation at the federal level. From time to time, the regulatory entities that have jurisdiction over the industry adopt new or modified regulations or take other actions as a result of their own regulatory processes or as directed by other governmental bodies. This changing regulatory environment could adversely affect the nature and extent of the services we are able to offer. To date, our sales have been within the clinical trial industry. To enter the patient treatment or personalized medicine market we would need to obtain FDA clearance or approval before marketing our services in this area. We have begun this process, but there can be no assurance that such clearance or approval would be granted or that it would be granted in a timely manner. To effectively market our products to physicians as a treatment aid, we would also need to obtain appropriate coverage and favorable reimbursement from third-party payers, such as Medicare and insurance companies, in order to more fully benefit from the market opportunity. There can be no assurance that appropriate coverage would be granted or that reimbursement levels or conditions of coverage would be adequate to ensure acceptance among physicians. Additionally, the efforts of governments and third-party payers to contain or reduce the cost of health care, such as a number of legislative and regulatory proposals currently being discussed, could affect our ability to implement our plans in this area. 15 We may in the future experience competition from academic sites, imaging CROs, and other competing technologies. Competition in the development of imaging solutions may become more widespread as with emerging technologies such as proteomics and genomics which can serve as predictive tools of drug efficacy. Competitors range from university-based research and development projects which would develop advanced tools to development stage companies and major domestic and international companies which would commercialize the tools. Some of these entities have greater financial, technical, marketing, sales, distribution and other resources than ours. There can be no assurance that we can continue to develop our technologies or that present or future competitors will not develop technologies that render our image-based biomarker industry obsolete or less marketable or that we will be able to introduce new products and product enhancements that are competitive with other products marketed by industry participants. We have experienced significant demand from one customer, thereby increasing our dependence on the customer until we can further diversify our customer base. While we continue to serve a broad range of customers, we’ve experienced strong demand from one of our customers, and our dependence on that customer to sustain our continued growth has increased. In 2012 and 2011, this customer accounted for 45% and 55% of our revenue, respectively. We continue to see demand from other customers, however, not to the same significant pace. We continue to invest on our sales and marketing efforts to further diversify our customers and more broadly penetrate the market, in order to minimize reliance on any one customer. As with all of our contracts, this customer may terminate its contractual relationship with us for any or no reason on 30 days’ advance notice. A decision by the customer to cancel all of its studies with us could have an adverse impact on the growth of our business. Consolidation within the pharmaceutical industry and changes within healthcare regulation may have an adverse impact on our business. Over the past few years, there have been several mergers and acquisitions among pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Historically, these transactions have positively impacted our business due to the ability to use our strong relationships within one of the merged entities to better penetrate the combined entity, however, there can be no assurance that consolidation within the industry will continue to be beneficial to us. Additionally, with the recent political landscape and changes within the healthcare industry, there may be an adverse impact on our business if the cost of imaging significantly increases or no longer becomes standard of care for patients. Although, we don’t believe imaging will decline in its level of use, if it does we may need to reduce prices or invest in research to advance the education and science of medical imaging. The trading price of our stock may be adversely affected if we are not able to continue to grow the business. We intend to continue to use our cash on hand to broaden our market penetration of our services within the industry and pursue the application of one of our technologies in the personalized medicine market. If our plans or assumptions with respect to our business change or prove to be inaccurate, we may be required to use part or all of our cash to fund general operating expenses and/or reduce costs within the organization. This will depend on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: ·the lack of significant cancellations of customer contracts ·the further market penetration of our products and services; and ·our ability to manage and sustain the growth of our business; and ·costs associated with successfully launching personalized medicine applications. 16 We currently do not plan to raise additional capital, however, if we need to raise additional capital, it may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Our failure to obtain required capital, or the acquisition of capital on less favorable terms, would have a material adverse effect on our business. If we issue additional equity securities in the future, you could experience dilution or a reduction in priority of your securities. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to factors, some of which are beyond our control, such as the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; developments concerning intellectual property rights and regulatory approvals; quarterly variations in our competitors’ results of operations; changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; developments in our industry; product liability claims or other litigation; and general market conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our own operating performance. Our common stock may be considered a “penny stock” and may be difficult to sell. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define “penny stock” to be an equity security that has a market or exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to specific exemptions. The market price of our common stock is currently below $5.00 per share and therefore may be designated as a “penny stock” according to SEC rules. This designation requires any broker or dealer selling these securities to disclose certain information concerning the transaction, obtain a written agreement from the purchaser and determine that the purchaser is reasonably suitable to purchase the securities. These rules may restrict the ability of brokers or dealers to sell our common stock and may affect the ability of our stockholders to sell their shares. Our strategic alliance with PPD is an important aspect of our growth, and the market may not value our strategic alliance with PPD as we anticipate. In 2010, we formed an alliance with PPD to provide a joint solution to provide clients with an integrated and customized clinical development and medical imaging solution for oncology clinical trials. The alliance was expanded in January 2012 to include cardiovascular, central nervous system and medical device studies. If the market does not value this model as we anticipate, our ability to grow our business may be negatively impacted. Additionally, the agreement may be terminated by either party on 90 days notice. In the event PPD terminates the agreement, we may also experience a negative impact in our ability to experience the level of growth the company has historically achieved. Our common stock has traded at prices below $1.00 and we may not be able to maintain our NASDAQ listing. As of the date of this report, and as previously disclosed in reports filed with the SEC, the Company is out of compliance with section 5550(a)(2) of the Nasdaq Marketplace Rules, the minimum bid price requirements. Nasdaq has extended the compliance period due to general market conditions and the Company now has until August 26, 2013 to regain compliance by maintaining a bid price of our common stock of $1.00 or higher for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days, or such longer period as Nasdaq may determine to show the ability to maintain long-term compliance. There can be no assurance that we will be able to do so, or, maintain compliance with this or other listing requirements. The Company intends to take steps necessary to maintain its Nasdaq listing. However, if our common stock is delisted from Nasdaq, trading in our common stock could be conducted on the OTC Bulletin Board or in the over-the-counter market in what is commonly referred to as the "pink sheets." If this occurs, a shareholder will find it more difficult to dispose of our common stock or to obtain accurate quotations as to the price of our common stock. Lack of any active trading market would have an adverse effect on a shareholder's ability to liquidate an investment in our common stock easily and quickly at a price acceptable to the shareholder. It might also contribute to volatility in the market price of our common stock and could adversely affect our ability to raise additional equity or debt financing on acceptable terms or at all. 17 A significant number of the shares of our common stock are eligible for sale, and their sale could negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Sales of a significant number of shares of our common stock in the public market or the possibility of such sales, could harm the market price of our common stock and impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of equity securities. As of December 31, 2012, we had 29,799,523 shares of common stock outstanding. These shares are eligible for resale in the public market either immediately or subject to applicable limitations of Rule 144. In addition to these outstanding shares of common stock, we also have shares to be issued upon the conversion or exercise of outstanding options, warrants and convertible securities. The series B convertible preferred stock and the warrants to purchase common stock issued in our 2007 private placement are convertible into 1,474,427 shares of our common stock and registered for resale under a registration statement on Form S-3. The 1,818,485 shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of our series A convertible preferred stock and warrants sold in our November 2005 private placement are eligible for resale under Rule 144. We have filed registration statements on Form S-8 to register the sale of up to 6,900,000 shares issued or to be issued pursuant to our Amended and Restated 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan. Additionally, outstanding warrants issued prior to 2005 and options under our 2001 and 2005 long-term incentive plans are convertible into 45,493 shares and 588,082 shares of our common stock, respectively, and will be available for resale following cash exercise after the applicable holding period under Rule 144, or immediately following a net exercise of those securities. Sales of our common stock in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market for the shares of our common stock. Our principal stockholders have significant voting power and may take actions that may not be in the best interests of other stockholders. Our officers, directors, principal stockholders (greater than 10%) and their affiliates control approximately 30% of our outstanding voting securities. If these stockholders act together, they will be able to exert significant control over our management and affairs requiring stockholder approval, including approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and might adversely affect the market price of our common stock. This concentration of ownership may not be in the best interests of all our stockholders. We do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, and the lack of dividends may have a negative effect on the stock price. We currently intend to retain our future earnings to support operations and to finance expansion and meet dividend obligations on our series B convertible preferred stock. In addition, the terms of our series B preferred stock limit our ability to pay dividends to the holders of our common stock. Therefore, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. ITEM 2: Properties In July, 2007 we began leasing approximately 19,500 square feet of office space at our corporate headquarters in Rochester, New York. The base annual rent under the lease is $360,000, and increases three percent (3%) a year. During the first twenty months of the lease, the rent was paid in two portions: a cash portion of $156,000 annually, paid in equal monthly installments, increasing three percent (3%) annually; and, a stock portion of $204,000 annually, paid in equal monthly installments, increasing three percent (3%) annually. The stock portion was payable in shares of our common stock. In February 2009, the Landlord exercised their option to receive their remaining rental payments in all cash. In June 2012, the Company renewed its lease with a lease term for five years with a lease commencement date of July 1, 2012. The base annual rent under the lease is $309,075, and increases two percent (2%) per year over the term of the lease. 18 ITEM 3: Legal Proceedings None. ITEM 4: Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 19 PART II ITEM 5: Market For Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our shares of common stock are listed for trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the trading symbol “VSCP.” The following table sets forth the high and low closing sales prices for our common stock as reported on the NASDAQ Capital Market for the period from January 1, 2011 through December 31, 2012. These prices do not include retail markup, markdown or commission and may not necessarily represent actual transactions. Investors should not rely on historical stock price performance as an indication of future price performance. Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2011 HIGH LOW First Quarter $2.89 $1.58 Second Quarter 2.20 1.66 Third Quarter 1.89 1.00 Fourth Quarter 1.16 0.82 Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2012 HIGH LOW First Quarter $1.61 $0.87 Second Quarter 1.56 0.81 Third Quarter 1.08 0.83 Fourth Quarter 0.91 0.57 As of February 28, 2013, we had approximately 76 registered holders of record of shares of our common stock. Dividend Policy We have never declared a cash dividend on our common stock. We intend to retain any earnings to fund future growth and the operation of our business and, therefore, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. In addition, the terms of our Series B Preferred Stock and Series C-1 Preferred Stock limit our ability to pay dividends to the holders of our common stock. Thereafter, dividends may be paid on our common stock only if and when declared by our board of directors and paid on an as-converted basis to the holders of our Series A, Series B, and Series C-1 convertible preferred stock. Equity Compensation Plan Information The following table summarizes information, as of December 31, 2012, relating to our equity compensation plans: 20 Number of Securities to be Issued Upon Exercise of Outstanding Options Weighted- Average Exercise Price of Outstanding Options Number of Securities Remaining Available for Future Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans (Excluding Securities Reflected in Column (a) Plan Category (a) (b) (c) Equity compensation plans approved by security holders 5,748,529(1) $1.24 1,084,930 Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders 350,000(2) $2.50 - Total 6,098,529 $1.31 1,084,930 (1) This amount includes shares under the plans of VirtualScopics, LLC, in addition to 45,493 shares of our common stock to holders of warrants granted by VirtualScopics, LLC, in exchange for consideration in the form of goods and services. Also we agreed to issue 5,630,444 shares of common stock collectively, under our 2001, 2005 and 2006 Long Term Incentive Plans. Also included are 67,530 shares of common stock underlying warrants we issued to the placement agent in connection with our September 2007 private placement, which was approved by stockholders in November 2007 and an additional, 5,062 warrants issued to the placement agent as a result of the Series C-1 financing which triggered certain anti-dilution provisions of the Company’s Series B warrants (2) In November 2005, our Board of Directors granted to our Chairman and former CEO, Robert Klimasewski, an option to purchase 350,000 shares of our common stock at $2.50 per share. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities We made no sales of unregistered securities during the quarter ended December 31, 2012. Issuer Repurchases of Equity Securities None. ITEM 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with VirtualScopics’ consolidated balance sheet, and related consolidated statements of operations, changes in stockholders’ equity and cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, included elsewhere in this report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements, the accuracy of which involves risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements for many reasons including, but not limited to, those discussed in “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this report. We disclaim any obligation to update information contained in any forward-looking statements. Overview VirtualScopics, Inc. is a leading provider of imaging solutions to accelerate drug and medical device development. We have developed a robust software platform for analysis and modeling of both structural and functional medical images. In combination with our industry-leading experience and expertise in advanced imaging biomarker measurement, this platform provides a uniquely clear window into the biological activity of drugs and devices in clinical trial patients, allowing our customers to make better decisions faster. Since inception, revenues have been derived primarily from image processing services in connection with pharmaceutical drug trials. For these services, we have been concentrating in the areas of oncology and osteoarthritis. We have also derived a small portion of revenue from consulting services, and pharmaceutical drug trials in the neurology and cardiovascular areas. We expect that the concentration of our revenue will continue in these services and in those areas in 2013. Revenues are recognized as the medical images that we process are quantified and delivered to our customers and/or the services are performed. Beginning in 2011, we began to pursue the personalized medicine market, however, we do not anticipate significant revenues from this market opportunity in 2013 as we are in the early stages of commercialization including our strategy relative to regulatory approval and validation of our software. 21 As of December 31, 2012, the amount remaining to be earned from active projects and awards was approximately $22 million. The reduction in backlog when compared to prior year is due to the generation of revenue from the backlog, softness in new project awards in 2012 and the ordinary close out of projects with balances remaining. Once we enter into a new contract for participation in a drug trial, there are several factors that can effect whether we will realize the full benefits under the contract, and the time over which we will realize that revenue. Customers may not continue our services due to performance reasons with their compounds in development. Furthermore, the contracts may contemplate performance over multiple years. Therefore, revenue may not be realized in the fiscal year in which the contract is signed or the award is made. Recognition of revenue under the contract may also be affected by the timing of patient recruitment and image site identification and training. Additionally, the majority of contracts we have with customers are cancelable for any reason by giving 30 days advance notice. Results of Operations Results of Operations for Year Ended December 31, 2012 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2011 Revenues We had revenues of $12,963,000 for the year ended December 31, 2012 compared to $14,282,000 for the year ended December 31, 2011, representing a 9% decrease. The decrease in revenues is related to a slowdown in the amount of new projects awarded in 2012 and delays in decisions being made by new and reoccurring customers on outstanding proposals as well as delays in the initiation of previously awarded and contracted projects. In July of 2012 we hired two individuals to augment our sales efforts in Europe and the US West Coast, two areas which we believed had been underserviced in the past. We believe these individuals will help enable us to better attack the market and provide us greater visibility in those regions. In addition to hiring sales representatives, we have reorganized our sales function which will allow our sales personnel more time to pursue opportunities and interface with existing and prospective customers. Although the amount of new project awards has been slower than we experienced in previous years, we did see an increased number of requests for proposals in 2012, in particular through the PPD channel. We believe that this increase in requests for proposals and our strategic alliance with PPD, Inc. will help increase the level of business activity from what we have experienced in 2011 and 2012. As of December 31, 2012, we had active projects with 10 of the leading 15 pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies in the world. Gross Profit We had a gross profit of $5,251,000 for the year ended December 31, 2012 compared to $6,274,000 for the comparable period in 2011. The gross margin for the year ended December 31, 2012 was 41% compared to 44% for the year ended December 31, 2011. Our margins declined year over year primarily as a result of the decrease in revenues encountered during 2012 as discussed above. During 2012, we performed work for 31 customers, representing 123 different projects, in connection with their pharmaceutical drug trials primarily in the fields of oncology and musculoskeletal diseases (osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis) along with various other projects. This compares to 36 customers representing 133 projects in 2011. In 2012, 48% of our revenues were generated from Phase III studies compared to 51% in 2011. Additionally, for the year ended December 31, 2012, oncology, musculoskeletal and other projects represented 69%, 21%, and 10%, respectively, of our revenues. This compares to 77%, 18%, and 5%, respectively, for 2011. 22 Research and Development Research and development costs increased in 2012 by $153,000, or 11%, to $1,603,000, when compared to 2011. The increase was due to hiring within our software development group and consultant and professional fees in support of our personalized medicine initiative, along with our efforts to secure our first 510k with the FDA. Our research and development efforts within our core business center around refining our processes through the use of our software platform in order to gain efficiencies which we believe will better allow us to standardize our processes and improve our gross margin. Additionally, we continue to invest in the commercialization of new imaging techniques across various imaging modalities and therapeutic areas. As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, there were 14 and 12 employees in our research and development group, respectively, which includes the algorithm and software development groups. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing costs increased in 2012 by $292,000, or 26%, to $1,411,000, when compared to 2011. The increase was the result of hiring two experienced sales individuals to cover the European and West Coast US territories in the third quarter of 2012. Our sales and marketing efforts include conference attendance and presentations, technically-focused webinars, customer webinars and related travel along with advertising in key scientific journals. During 2012, we made further investments in driving awareness of our strategic alliance with PPD and the benefits it provides the pharmaceutical and medical device industries. The PPD alliance was expanded in January 2012 to include cardiovascular, central nervous system and medical device studies. As December 31, 2012 and 2011, there were 7 and 4 individuals in our sales and marketing department, respectively. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2012 were $3,060,000, representing a decrease of $118,000 or 4%, when compared to 2011. The decrease was driven by a reduction in non-cash stock compensation costs and general cost controls within our core business offset by hiring within our quality control group and consultant fees in support of our personalized medicine initiative. General and administrative expenses include both personnel and non-personnel costs. Departments included within general and administrative function are finance, information technology, quality, human resources and the CEO position. Non-payroll related costs included within general and administration include stock option expense, audit and legal fees, regulatory and compliance fees, Nasdaq listing fees, board fees, non-capitalizable hardware and software costs and licenses and non-sales related travel costs. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization charges decreased for the year ended December 31, 2012 by $58,000 or 12%, to $421,000, when compared to 2011. The reduction is due to the complete amortization of our right to use an MRI unit at the University of Rochester (a related party) during 2011. Offsetting this reduction was higher depreciation charges related to recent capital purchases, including the purchase and installation cost of an ERP system in 2011. The amortization and depreciation costs are based on the timing and life of patents and property and equipment. We continue to invest in our patent portfolio, however, we do not anticipate significant expenditures are necessary to support our current business and future strategies. Our IT systems are the basis of our operating platform, therefore, we will continue to invest in our IT infrastructure to ensure we have a robust and reliable operating system. 23 Other income(expense), net Interest income for the year ended December 31, 2012 was $3,000, representing interest derived on the Company’s operating and savings accounts, compared to interest income of $18,000 in 2011. The decrease in interest income was due to lower interest rates earned on the account balances in 2012. Other expense for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 remained relatively consistent, decreasing to $24,000 from $32,000. Additionally, we recognized an unrealized loss of $265,000 related to the fair value of certain warrants that were issued in connection with our 2007 Series B offering (see Financial Statement Note 5). During 2011, we recognized an unrealized gain of $669,000 related to the fair value of those warrants. The aggregate decrease of $934,000 when compared to 2011 is attributable to the higher average price of our common stock prior to closing the Series C-1 financing in April 2012 and the decrease in the number of derivative instruments outstanding due to the elimination of the anti-dilution adjustment provision in certain Series B warrants as part of the Series C-1 financing. As of December 31, 2012, the Company had 214,229 warrants outstanding subject to the anti-dilution adjustment provision as compared to the 902,038 at December 31, 2011. Net Income (Loss) Our net loss for the year ended December 31, 2012 was $1,529,000 compared to a net income of $703,000 for the year ended December 31, 2011. The decrease in our net income over the prior period was attributable to lower revenues and gross profit in addition to the non-cash unrealized loss on the change in fair value of derivative liabilities, as discussed above. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our working capital as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 was approximately $8,972,000 and $6,353,000, respectively. The increase in working capital was primarily a result of the financing agreement we entered into during 2012 with Merck GHI that resulted in the receipt of net proceeds of approximately $2,700,000. Additionally, there was cash provided by operating activities of $43,000 in 2012 as compared to $1,443,000 in 2011 due to the timing differences of non-cash expenses and the receipt of accounts receivables during the years. We invested $194,000 in the purchase of equipment and the acquisition of patents in 2012, compared to $419,000 for the investment in these items in 2011. The decrease represents prior year investments in our IT and IS infrastructure and the costs associated with the acquisition of a new IT storage system to support our services that did not reoccur in 2012. We anticipate that our IT related costs will increase in 2013 as we continue to invest in our operating system and infrastructure in connection with our personalized medicine initiative and support of our core business. During 2012 we incurred $23,000 in patent costs associated with filing costs for intellectual property, as compared to $7,000 in 2011. The increase is due to the timing of office actions within our existing patent filings. Net cash provided in financing activities was $2,937,000 and $137,000 in 2012 and 2011, respectively. The increase is a result of proceeds received from the exercise of options and warrants and the closing of the financing with Merck GHI during 2012. The terms of the Merck GHI financing provide for a second closing of series C-2 preferred stock, if, among other things, we meet certain milestones toward the development of a quantitative imaging center on or before April 3, 2013. We do not expect that this second closing will occur, however, we intend to continue to pursue our efforts in support of obtaining FDA acceptance. We currently expect that existing cash will be sufficient to fund our existing operations for the next 12 months and foreseeable future. Although we believe we have sufficient capital to continue our efforts to commercialize our personalized medicine solutions in the short term, our capital requirements will depend on the feedback we receive from the FDA and insurance providers (payers). As a result, there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient capital available to successfully commercialize our personalized medicine applications. If in the future our plans or assumptions change or prove to be inaccurate, we may be required to seek additional capital through public or private debt or equity financings. If we need to raise additional funds, we may not be able to do so on terms favorable to us, or at all. If we cannot raise sufficient funds on acceptable terms, we may have to curtail our level of expenditures and our rate of expansion. 24 Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no off-balance sheet arrangements, other than operating leases (as described in “Contractual Obligations” below) that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect that is material to investors on our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital resources or capital expenditures. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at December 31, 2012 which we expect to have an effect on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods. (See Item 