Item 1A. Risk Factors RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS 10 We may be adversely affected by global and regional economic conditions and legislative, regulatory and political developments. We sell our products around the world, and we expect to continue to derive a substantial portion of sales from outside the U.S. The recent worldwide recession has had, and the European debt crisis and the continuing uncertainty as to economic recovery may have, adverse consequences for our customers and our business. The uncertain macroeconomic environment in the U.S. and other countries around the globe from which we derive significant sales may adversely affect our results and could have a negative impact on demand for our products as the prospects, strength and timing of the current recovery remain uncertain as well as the possibility of a return to a recession in the U.S. and other countries around the globe. Customers or suppliers may experience cash flow problems and as a result, may modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our products, and suppliers may significantly and quickly increase their prices or reduce their output. Additionally, if customers are not successful in generating sufficient revenue or are precluded from securing financing, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, amounts owed to us. Any inability of current and/or potential customers to purchase our products and/or to pay us for our products may adversely affect our sales, earnings and cash flow. Sales and earnings could also be affected by our ability to manage the risks and uncertainties associated with the application of local legal requirements or the enforceability of laws and contractual obligations, trade protection measures, changes in tax laws, regional political instability, war, terrorist activities, severe or prolonged adverse weather conditions and natural disasters as well as health epidemics or pandemics. Our inability to protect our intellectual property rights could negatively affect our business and results of operations. Our ability to compete effectively depends in part upon developing, maintaining and/or protecting intellectual property rights relevant to our re-crystallized silicon carbide product forms, applications and manufacturing processes. We rely principally on a combination of patent protection, trade secret laws, confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements and trusted business relationships to establish, maintain and protect the intellectual property rights relevant to our business. These measures, however, may not be adequate in every given case to permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage, particularly in those countries where the laws do not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. In particular, because silicon carbide is a well known material (developed over 100 years ago), and there has been extensive research, development and publication related to this material and its wide range of applications, obtaining intellectual property rights to key elements of silicon carbide technology can be challenging . Accordingly, at least some of the technology employed in our manufacture of re-crystallized silicon carbide products is not protected by patents. Where we consider it appropriate, however, we seek patent protection in the United States and other countries on technologies used in or relating to our re-crystallized silicon carbide product forms, applications and manufacturing processes. As of March 19, 2012, we had one issued United States patent and three issued foreign patents, all of which we co-own with a third party. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its scope, validity and enforceability. Thus, any patent, or patent application which may issue into a patent held by us could be challenged, invalidated or held unenforceable in litigation or proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and/or other patent tribunals, or circumvented by others. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of patent claims has emerged to date in the United States and the landscape could become more uncertain in view of future rule changes by the United States Patent and Trademark Office, the introduction of patent reform legislation and decisions in patent law cases by United States federal courts. The patent landscape outside the United States is even less predictable. As a result, the validity and enforceability of patents cannot be predicted with certainty. In addition, we may fail to apply for patents on important technologies or product candidates in a timely fashion, if at all, and our existing and future patents may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products or technologies, especially given the long history of silicon carbide development. 11 As of March 19, 2012, we had one pending United States patent application and two pending foreign patent applications. The issuance of patents from these applications involves complex legal and factual questions and, thus, we cannot assure that any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents to us. The United States Patent and Trademark Office and relevant foreign patent tribunals may deny or require significant narrowing of claims in our pending patent applications. Patents issued as a result of any of our pending patent applications may not cover our enabling technology and/or the products or processes that support our current or future business or afford us with significant commercial protection against others with similar technology. Proceedings before the United States Patent and Trademark Office could result in adverse decisions as to the priority of our inventions and the narrowing or invalidation of claims in issued patents. In addition, our pending patent applications filed in foreign countries are subject to laws, rules and procedures that differ from those of the United States, and thus foreign patent applications may not be granted even if counterpart United States patents are issued. Moreover, others may independently develop and obtain patents covering technologies that are similar or superior to the product forms, applications or manufacturing processes that we employ. If that happens, we may need to obtain licenses for these technologies and may not be able to obtain licenses on reasonable terms, if at all, which could limit our ability to manufacture our current and/or future products and operate our business. In addition, third parties could practice our intellectual property rights in territories where we do not have intellectual property protection. Such third parties may then try to import products made using our intellectual property rights into the United States or other countries. Our contracts with third parties could negatively affect our intellectual property rights. To further our product development efforts, we have and/or continue to work closely with customers, the Danish government and other third parties to research and develop advancements in silicon carbide product forms, applications, manufacturing processes and related products and technologies. We have entered into agreements with private third parties and have been awarded a research and development contract with the Danish government to independently and jointly research, design and develop new devices and systems that incorporate our silicon carbide technologies. We expect to enter into similar private agreements and be awarded similar government contracts in the future. In some instances, the research and development activities that we conduct under these contracts may produce intellectual property to which we may not have ownership or exclusive rights and will be unable to protect or monetize. Furthermore, there could be disputes between us and a private third party as to the ownership rights to any inventions that we develop in collaboration with such third party. Any such dispute may cause us to incur substantial costs and could place a significant strain on our financial resources, divert the attention of management from our core business or harm our reputation. We rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, and our failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. We rely in part on trade secret protection to protect confidential and proprietary information relating to our technology, particularly where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. We continue to develop and refine the manufacturing processes used to produce our re-crystallized silicon carbide products and believe that we have already developed, and will continue to develop, significant know-how related to these processes. Trade secrets however can be difficult to protect. We may not be able to maintain the secrecy of our know-how, and competitors may develop or acquire equally or more valuable know-how related to the manufacture of comparable silicon carbide products. Our strategy for scale-up of commercial production will continue to require us to share confidential and proprietary information with third parties. While we take reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees, consultants, contractors or scientific and other advisors, or those of our business partners, may intentionally or inadvertently disclose our confidential and proprietary information to competitors. Any enforcement of claims by us that a third party has obtained and is using our trade secrets is expensive, time consuming and uncertain. In addition, foreign courts are sometimes less willing than United States courts to protect trade secrets. 12 We also require all employees, consultants and business partners to execute confidentiality and/or nondisclosure agreements upon the commencement of employment, consulting arrangement or other engagement with us, which agreements generally require that all confidential and proprietary information developed by such employee, consultant or business partner, or made known to such employee, consultant or business partner by us during the course of the relationship with us, be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties. These agreements generally provide, with respect to employees, that inventions conceived by an individual in the course of rendering services to us will be our exclusive property. Nevertheless, these agreements may not be honored and our confidential and proprietary information may be disclosed, or these agreements may be unenforceable or difficult to enforce. We also require customers and vendors to execute agreements containing confidentiality and/or nondisclosure provisions. However, we may not have obtained such agreements from all of our customers and vendors. Some of our customers may also be subject to laws and regulations that require them to disclose information that we would otherwise seek to keep confidential. Our confidential and proprietary information may be otherwise disclosed without our authorization. For example, third parties might reverse engineer our manufacturing processes, independently develop substantially equivalent confidential and proprietary information or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Failure to maintain trade secret protection could enable others to produce competing products and adversely affect our competitive business position. We could become subject to intellectual property litigation that could be costly, limit or cancel our intellectual property rights, divert time and efforts away from business operations, require us to pay damages and/or otherwise have an adverse material impact on our business. The success of our business is highly dependent on protecting our intellectual property rights. Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products and/or enabling technology. Policing the unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights is difficult and expensive, as is enforcing these rights against unauthorized use by others. Identifying unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights is difficult because we may be unable to monitor the processes and/or materials being employed by other parties. The steps we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights, particularly in foreign countries where enforcement of intellectual property rights may be more difficult than in the United States. Our continued commercial success will also depend in part upon not infringing the patents or violating the intellectual property rights of third parties. We are aware of patents and patent applications generally relating to aspects of our technologies filed by, and issued to, third parties. Nevertheless, we cannot determine with certainty whether such patents or patent applications of other parties may materially affect our ability to conduct our business. There may be existing patents of which we are unaware that we may inadvertently infringe, resulting in claims against us or our customers. In the event that the manufacture, use and/or sale of our products or processes is challenged, or if our product forms or processes conflict with the patent rights of others, third parties could bring legal actions against us in the United States, Europe or other countries, claiming damages and seeking to enjoin the manufacturing and/or marketing of our products. Additionally, it is not possible to predict with certainty what patent claims may issue from any relevant third-party pending patent applications. Third parties may be able to obtain patents with claims relating to our product forms, applications and/or manufacturing processes which they could attempt to assert against us. 13 In either case, litigation may be necessary to enforce, protect or defend our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the intellectual property rights of others. Any litigation could be unsuccessful, cause us to incur substantial costs, divert resources and the efforts of our personnel away from daily operations, harm our reputation and/or result in the impairment of our intellectual property rights. In some cases, litigation may be threatened or brought by a patent holding company or other adverse patent owner who has no relevant product revenues and against which our patents may provide little or no deterrence. If we are found to infringe any patents, we could be required to (1) pay substantial monetary damages, including lost profits, reasonable royalties and/or treble damages if an infringement is found to be willful and/or (2) totally discontinue or substantially modify any products or processes that are found to be in violation of another party’s intellectual property rights. If our competitors are able to use our technology without payment to us, our ability to compete effectively could be harmed. We face competition and technological advances by competitors which could adversely affect the sales of our products. The growth of our company depends in part on maintaining and growing the sales of our current products in our markets, but also in developing new products and technologies. There is significant competition among companies that provide solutions for pollutant emissions from diesel engines and water purification solutions. Several companies market products that compete directly with our products. Other companies offer products that potential customers may consider to be acceptable alternatives to our products and services, including products that are verified by the EPA or other environmental authorities. We face direct competition from companies with greater financial, technological, manufacturing and personnel resources. Newly developed products could be more effective and cost efficient than our current or future products. Failure to obtain required raw materials could affect our ability to supply products to our customers. We use silicon carbide, platinum and palladium in the manufacture of our products. There is a limited supply of silicon carbide available to us. As other industries develop products utilizing silicon carbide, we may not be able to obtain adequate supplies of silicon carbide required for the manufacture of our existing and planned future water filtration products. Any increased demand for silicon carbide, platinum or palladium could increase the price we must pay to obtain it and could adversely affect our profitability. We rely on sub-contractors to meet current demand for our products and we will need to obtain additional manufacturing capacity in order to increase production of our existing products or to produce our proposed new products. We do not have sufficient internal manufacturing capacity to meet the current demand for our products, and we rely on a two subcontractors to enable us to meet this demand. Since we rely on our subcontractors for a significant amount of our production capacity, the loss of the services of our subcontractors would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our plans for the growth of our business rely upon increasing sales of our existing products and developing and marketing new products. We do not have adequate internal manufacturing facilities to substantially increase production of our products and obtaining additional manufacturing capacity in-house will require substantial capital expenditures. We may not be able to locate such additional facilities, and, if located, we may not have the capital resources to obtain or construct them. Historically, we have been dependent on a few major customers for a significant portion of our company’s revenue. Our revenue could decline if we are unable to maintain or develop relationships with additional customers and our results of operations could be adversely affected if any one of these customers is unable to meet their financial obligations to us. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we had four customers who accounted for approximately 67% of our total revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2011, we had four customers who accounted for approximately 39% of our total revenues. If we are unable to diversify our customer base, our future results will be heavily dependent on these customers. If any one of these customers reduces their demand for our products, it will have a material adverse effect on our operations. 14 A significant portion of our account receivables is concentrated with these major customers, some of whom have limited working capital resources. The failure of any such customers to pay amounts owed to us in a timely fashion could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Foreign currency fluctuations could adversely impact financial performance. Our reporting currency is the United States dollar. Because of our activities in Denmark, the United Kingdom, the European Continent, and Korea, we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency rates. We may manage the risk to such exposure by entering into foreign currency futures and option contracts. Foreign currency fluctuations may have a significant effect on our operations in the future. The recent European debt crisis could have a material adverse effect on our European operations. The recent European debt crisis and related European financial restructuring efforts have contributed to instability in the global credit markets and may cause the value of the Euro to further deteriorate. If global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in Europe, the United States or other key markets remain uncertain or deteriorate further, the value of the Euro and the credit market may weaken. While we do not transact a significant amount of business in Greece or Italy, the general financial instability in those countries could have a contagion effect on the region and contribute to the general instability and uncertainty in the European Union. If this were to occur, it could adversely affect our European customers and suppliers and in turn have a materially adverse effect on our European business and results of operations. Future growth of our business depends in part, on the general availability of funding for emissions control programs, as well as enforcement of existing emissions-related environmental regulations and further tightening of emission standards worldwide. Future growth of our business depends in part on the general availability of funding for emissions control programs, which can be affected by economic as well as political reasons. For example, in light of the recent budget crisis in California, funding was not available for a state-funded emissions control project and its start date was pushed back. A recent budget proposal put forth by the Obama administration did not include funding for the EPA’s Diesel Emissions Reduction Act program in fiscal 2012. Funding for these types of emissions control projects drives the demand for our diesel particulate filters. If such funding is not available, it can negatively affect our future growth prospects. In addition to funding, we also expect that our future business growth will be driven, in part, by the enforcement of existing emissions-related environmental regulations and tightening of emissions standards worldwide. If such standards do not continue to become stricter, are loosened or are not enforced by governmental authorities due to commercial and business pressure or otherwise, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and long-term prospects. We face constant changes in governmental standards by which our products are evaluated, and if we cannot meet any such changes, some of our products could become obsolete. We believe that, due to the constant focus on the environment and clean air and clean water standards throughout the world, a requirement in the future to adhere to new and more stringent regulations both in the U.S. and abroad is possible as governmental agencies seek to improve standards required for certification of products intended to promote clean air and water. In the event our products fail to meet these ever-changing standards, some or all of our products may become obsolete, which could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and long-term prospects. 15 Our results may fluctuate due to certain regulatory, marketing and competitive factors over which we have little or no control. The factors listed below, some of which we cannot control, may cause our revenue and results of operations to fluctuate significantly: ● Actions taken by regulatory bodies relating to the verification, registration or health effects of our products; ● The extent to which existing and newly developed products obtain market acceptance; ● The timing and size of customer purchases; ● Customer concerns about the stability of our business, which could cause them to seek alternatives to our solutions and products; and ● Increases in raw material costs. Any liability for environmental harm or damages resulting from technical faults or failures of our products could be substantial and could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Customers rely upon our products to meet emissions control standards imposed upon them by the government. Failure of our products to meet such standards could expose us to claims from customers. Our products are also integrated into goods used by consumers, and therefore a malfunction or the inadequate design of our products could result in product liability claims. Any liability for environmental harm or damages resulting from technical faults or failures could be substantial and could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, a well-publicized actual or perceived problem could adversely affect the market’s perception of our products, which would materially impact our financial condition and operating results. We could become liable for damages resulting from our manufacturing activities. The nature of our manufacturing operations exposes us to potential claims and liability for environmental damage, personal injury, loss of life and damage to, or destruction of, property. Our manufacturing operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations that govern environmental protection and human health and safety. These laws and regulations have changed frequently in the past and it is reasonable to expect additional and more stringent changes in the future. Our manufacturing operations may not comply with future laws and regulations, and we may be required to make significant unanticipated capital and operating expenditures to bring our operations within compliance with such regulations. If we fail to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations, manufacturing guidelines, and workplace safety requirements, governmental authorities may seek to impose fines and penalties on us or to revoke or deny the issuance or renewal of operating permits, and private parties may seek damages from us. Under such circumstances, we could be required to curtail or cease operations, conduct site remediation or other corrective action, or pay substantial damage claims for which may not have sufficient or any insurance coverage for claims. We will incur significant costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management may be required to devote substantial time to compliance initiatives. 16 As a public company, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses which we estimate to be in excess of $300,000 annually. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC, have imposed various requirements on public companies, including requiring establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls as well as mandating certain corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel will devote a substantial amount of time and financial resources to these compliance initiatives. If we fail to staff our accounting and finance function adequately, or maintain internal control systems adequate to meet the demands that are placed upon us as a public company, we may be unable to report our financial results accurately or in a timely manner and our business and stock price may suffer. The costs of being a public company, as well as diversion of management’s time and attention, may have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. We will need to add qualified additional personnel as we expand our business, and we may not be able to employ such persons, which will affect our ability to expand. Our current employees are spending virtually all of their time on our existing products and customers. In order to expand our product offerings and customer base, we will need to hire additional qualified personnel. We may not be able to locate such persons, and even if we locate them, we may not have the funds to employ them. We may depend upon outside advisors, who may not be available on reasonable terms and as needed. To supplement the business experience of our officers and directors, we may be required to employ accountants, technical experts, attorneys, or other consultants or advisors. Our Board, without any input from stockholders, will make the selection of any such advisors. Furthermore, we anticipate that such persons will be engaged on an “as needed” basis without a continuing fiduciary or other obligation to us, and we cannot assure you that their services will be available to us on a timely basis. Our success will depend, to a large degree, on the expertise and experience of the members of our management team. Our success is, to a large degree, dependent upon the expertise and experience of the management team and its ability to attract and retain quality personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of such personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business may be adversely affected if we are unable to continue to attract and retain such personnel. A significant portion of our assets and the majority of our officers and directors are located outside of the United States of America, and therefore it may be difficult for an investor to enforce within the United States any judgments obtained against us or such officers and directors. A significant portion of our assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, the majority of our officers and directors are nationals and/or residents of countries other than the United States, and all or a substantial portion of such persons’ assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for an investor to affect service of process or enforce within the United States any judgments obtained against us or such officers or directors, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of other jurisdictions would recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts obtained against us or our directors and officers predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof, or be competent to hear original actions brought in other jurisdictions against us, or such officers and directors predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof. 17 We may have insufficient funds to develop our business, which may adversely affect our future growth. On March 2, 2012, we completed the initial closing of a registered public offering of our common stock whereby we issued and sold 2,511,500 shares at a per share price of $3.25 and generated net proceeds of approximately $7.4 million. We also issued to the placement agent and certain of its agents for $100, warrants to purchase an aggregate of 125,575 shares of our common stock with an exercise price equal to $4.06 which are exercisable for a period of five years commencing after the effective date of the registration statement related to the offering. We intend to use the net proceeds from the offering for the development and marketing of our products, the engineering, development and testing of our membranes, and the opening of local sales offices in certain countries outside of the U.S. and Denmark. However, we can provide no assurance that the net proceeds will be adequate to achieve our long term goals. The continued growth of our business will depend in part upon our ability to continue to develop new products and to make strategic acquisitions. We may not generate sufficient cash flow from our operations to allow us to fund these activities. We may need to sell additional equity or borrow funds in order to develop these growth strategies and our inability to raise the additional capital and/or borrow the funds needed to implement these plans may adversely affect our business and future growth. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK There is a limited trading market for our common stock, which could make it difficult for you to liquidate an investment in our common stock in a timely manner. Our common stock is currently quoted on the Over the Counter Bulletin Board (“OTCBB”) and the OTC Markets — OTCQX tier. Because there is a limited public market for our common stock, you may not be able to liquidate your investment when you want. An active trading market for our common stock may not develop. The lack of an active public trading market means that you may not be able to sell your shares of common stock when you want, thereby increasing your market risk. Until our common stock is listed on a securities exchange, we expect that it will continue to be traded on the OTCBB and the OTC Markets — OTCQX tier, on another over-the-counter quotation system, or in the “pink sheets.” However, an investor may find it difficult to obtain accurate quotations regarding the common stock’s market value. In addition, if we fail to meet the criteria set forth in SEC regulations, various requirements would be imposed by law on broker-dealers who sell our securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. Consequently, such regulations may deter broker-dealers from recommending or selling our common stock, which may further affect its liquidity. If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they downgrade us or our sector, the price of our common stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. We do not control these analysts. Furthermore, if one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrades us or the industry in which we operate or the stock of any of our competitors, the price of our common stock will probably decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage altogether, we could lose visibility, which could also lead to a decline in the price of the common stock. Approximately 34.7% of our common stock is controlled by our officers and directors, who have the ability to substantially influence the election of directors and other matters submitted to stockholders. As of March 12, 2012, 9,113,291 shares, or 34.7%, of our common stock, including stock options and warrants, were beneficially owned by our officers and directors, including 5,703,541 shares, or 21.9%, of our common stock beneficially owned by Aldo Petersen, our Chairman of the Board. As a result, our officers and directors and Aldo Petersen, in particular, are expected to continue to have the ability to significantly influence the election of our Board of Directors and the outcome of all other issues submitted to our stockholders. The interests of these principal stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders, and they may act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. One consequence to this substantial influence or control is that it may be difficult for investors to remove our management. This could also deter unsolicited takeovers, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. 18 We cannot assure you that our common stock will become listed on a securities exchange and the failure to do so may adversely affect your ability to dispose of our common stock in a timely fashion. The New York Stock Exchange, the NYSE AMEX (“AMEX”) and the Nasdaq Stock Market recently amended their listing rules to restrict the ability of companies that have completed reverse mergers to list their securities on such exchanges. In order to become eligible to list their securities on such exchanges, reverse merger companies must have had their securities traded on an over-the-counter market (for example, the OTCBB) for at least one year, maintained a closing price of $4.00 or higher for not less than 30 of the most recent 60 days prior to the filing of an initial listing application and prior to listing, and timely filed with the SEC all required reports since the consummation of the reverse merger, including one annual report containing audited financial statements for a full fiscal year commencing after the date of the filing of the Form 8-K containing the company’s Form 10 information. As such, although we plan to seek listing of our common stock on the AMEX or a Nasdaq exchange as soon as reasonably practicable, we do not currently meet the new listing standards. We may not be able to satisfy the initial listing standards of the AMEX or Nasdaq exchanges in the foreseeable future or at all. Even if we are able to list our common stock on such exchanges, we may not be able to maintain a listing of the common stock on such stock exchange. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile, which may adversely affect its market price. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to factors such as: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial condition or results of operations; • the success or failure of our operating strategies and our perceived prospects; realization of any of the risks described in this section; failure to be covered by securities analysts or failure to meet the expectations of securities analysts; • a decline in the stock prices of peer companies; and • a discount in the trading multiple of our common stock relative to that of common stock of certain of our peer companies due to perceived risks associated with our smaller size. As a result, shares of our common stock may trade at prices significantly below the price you paid to acquire them. Furthermore, declines in the price of our common stock may adversely affect our ability to conduct future offerings or to recruit and retain key employees, including our managing directors and other key professional employees. You may experience dilution as a result of future issuances of our securities. In general, stockholders do not have preemptive rights to any common stock issued by us in the future. Therefore, stockholders may experience additional dilution of their equity investment if we issue additional shares of common stock in the future, including shares issuable under equity incentive plans, or if we issue securities that are convertible into shares of our common stock. 19 Our common stock is considered a “penny stock” and may be difficult to sell. Trades of our common stock are subject to Rule 15g-9 promulgated by the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), which imposes certain requirements on broker-dealers who sell securities subject to the rule to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. For transactions covered by the rule, broker-dealers must make a special suitability determination for purchasers of the securities and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction prior to sale. The SEC also has other rules that regulate broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in “penny stocks”. Penny stocks generally are equity securities with a price of less than $5.00 (other than securities listed on a national securities exchange, provided that current price and volume information with respect to transactions in that security is provided by the exchange or system). The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document prepared by the SEC that provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction, and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. The bid and offer quotations, and the broker-dealer and salesperson compensation information, must be given to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting the transaction and must be given to the customer in writing before or with the customer’s confirmation. These disclosure requirements have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for our common stock. As a result of the foregoing, investors may find it difficult to sell their shares. We have no current plan to pay dividends on our common stock, and investors may lose the entire amount of their investment. We have no current plans to pay dividends on our common stock. Therefore, investors will not receive any funds absent a sale of their shares. We cannot assure investors of a positive return on their investment when they sell their shares nor can we assure that investors will not lose the entire amount of their investment. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could discourage a change in control, or an acquisition of us by a third party, even if the acquisition would be favorable to you, thereby adversely affecting existing stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may have the effect of making more difficult or delaying attempts by others to obtain control of our Company, even when these attempts may be in the best interests of stockholders. For example, our certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors, without stockholder approval, to issue one or more series of preferred stock, which could have voting and conversion rights that adversely affect or dilute the voting power of the holders of common stock. These provisions and others that could be adopted in the future could deter unsolicited takeovers or delay or prevent changes in our control or management, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. These provisions may also limit the ability of stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 