ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The Company’s business is subject to numerous risk factors, including the following. The Company has had very limited operating history and no revenues or earnings from operations. The Company has no significant assets or financial resources. The Company will, in all likelihood, sustain operating expenses without corresponding revenues, at least until the consummation of a business combination. This may result in the Company incurring a net operating loss which will increase continuously until the Company can consummate a business combination with a target company. There is no assurance that the Company can identify such a target company and consummate such a business combination. Our proposed business plan is speculative in nature. The success of the Company’s proposed plan of operation will depend to a great extent on the operations, financial condition and management of the identified target company. While management will prefer business combinations with entities having established operating histories, there can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in locating candidates meeting such criteria. In the event the Company completes a business combination, of which there can be no assurance, the success of the Company’s operations will be dependent upon management of the target company and numerous other factors beyond the Company’s control. The Company is and will continue to be an insignificant participant in the business of seeking mergers with and acquisitions of business entities. A large number of established and well-financed entities, including venture capital firms, are active in mergers and acquisitions of companies which may be merger or acquisition target candidates for the Company. Nearly all such entities have significantly greater financial resources, technical expertise and managerial capabilities than the Company and, consequently, the Company will be at a competitive disadvantage in identifying possible business opportunities and successfully completing a business combination. Moreover, the Company will also compete with numerous other small public companies in seeking merger or acquisition candidates. 5 The Company has no current arrangement, agreement or understanding with respect to engaging in a merger with or acquisition of a specific business entity. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in identifying and evaluating suitable business opportunities or in concluding a business combination. Management has not identified any particular industry or specific business within an industry for evaluation by the Company. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to negotiate a business combination on terms favorable to the Company. The Company has not established a specific length of operating history or a specified level of earnings, assets, net worth or other criteria which it will require a target company to have achieved, or without which the Company would not consider a business combination with such business entity. Accordingly, the Company may enter into a business combination with a bu siness entity having no significant operating history, losses, limited or no potential for immediate earnings, limited assets, negative net worth or other negative characteristics. Our management has limited time to devote to our business. While seeking a business combination, management anticipates devoting only a limited amount of time per month to the business of the Company. The Company’s sole officer has not entered into a written employment agreement with the Company and he is not expected to do so in the foreseeable future. The Company has not obtained key man life insurance on its officer and director. Notwithstanding the combined limited experience and time commitment of management, loss of the services of this individual would adversely affect development of the Company’s business and its likelihood of continuing operations. The Company’s officer and director participates in other business ventures which may compete directly with the Company. Additional conflicts of interest and non-arms length transactions may also arise in the future. Management has adopted a policy that the Company will not seek a merger with, or acquisition of, any entity in which any member of management serves as an officer, director or partner, or in which they or their family members own or hold any ownership interest. Reporting requirements may delay or preclude an acquisition. Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) requires companies subject thereto to provide certain information about significant acquisitions including certified financial statements for the company acquired covering one or two years, depending on the relative size of the acquisition. The time and additional costs that may be incurred by some target companies to prepare such financial statements may significantly delay or essentially preclude consummation of an otherwise desirable acquisition by the Company. Acquisition prospects that do not have or are unable to obtain the required audited statements may not be appropriate for acquisition so long as the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act are applicable. The Company has neither conducted, nor have others made available to it, market research indicating that demand exists for the transactions contemplated by the Company. Even in the event demand exists for a merger or acquisition of the type contemplated by the Company, there is no assurance the Company will be successful in completing any such business combination. The Company’s proposed operations, even if successful, will in all likelihood result in the Company engaging in a business combination with only one business entity. Consequently, the Company’s activities will be limited to those engaged in by the business entity which the Company merges with or acquires. The Company’s inability to diversify its activities into a number of areas may subject the Company to economic fluctuations within a particular business or industry and therefore increase the risks associated with the Company’s operations. Potential for being classified an Investment Company. Although the Company will be subject to regulation under the Exchange Act, management believes the Company will not be subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act of 1940, insofar as the Company will not be engaged in the business of investing or trading in securities. In the event the Company engages in business combinations which result in the Company holding passive investment interests in a number of entities, the Company could be subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act of 1940. In such event, the Company would be required to register as an investment company and could be expected to incur significant registration and compliance costs. The Company has obtained no formal determination from the Securities and Exchange Commission as to the status of the Company under the Investment Company Act of 1940 and, consequently, any violation of such Act could subject the Compa ny to material adverse consequences. A business combination involving the issuance of the Company’s common stock will, in all likelihood, result in shareholders of a target company obtaining a controlling interest in the Company. Any such business combination may require shareholders of the Company to sell or transfer all or a portion of the Company’s common stock held by them. The resulting change in control of the Company will likely result in removal of the present officer and director of the Company and a corresponding reduction in or elimination of his participation in the future affairs of the Company. Currently, there are no pending acquisitions, business combinations or mergers. The Company’s primary plan of operation is based upon a business combination with a business entity which, in all likelihood, will result in the Company issuing securities to shareholders of such business entity. The issuance of previously authorized and unissued common stock of the Company would result in reduction in percentage of shares owned by the present shareholders of the Company and would most likely result in a change in control or management of the Company. 6 Federal and state tax consequences will, in all likelihood, be major considerations in any business combination the Company may undertake. Currently, such transactions may be structured so as to result in tax-free treatment to both companies, pursuant to various federal and state tax provisions. The Company intends to structure any business combination so as to minimize the federal and state tax consequences to both the Company and the target company; however, there can be no assurance that such business combination will meet the statutory requirements of a tax-free reorganization or that the parties will obtain the intended tax-free treatment upon a transfer of stock or assets. A non-qualifying reorganization could result in the imposition of both federal and state taxes which may have an adverse effect on both parties to the transaction. Management of the Company will request that any potential business opportunity provide audited financial statements. One or more attractive business opportunities may choose to forego the possibility of a business combination with the Company rather than incur the expenses associated with preparing audited financial statements. In such case, the Company may choose to obtain certain assurances as to the target company’s assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses prior to consummating a business combination, with further assurances that audited financial statements would be provided after closing of such a transaction. Closing documents relative thereto may include representations that the audited financial statements will not materially differ from the representations included in such closing documents. Our stock is subject to the Penny Stock rules, which impose significant restrictions on the Broker-Dealers and may affect the resale of our stock. Our stock is subject to Penny Stock trading rules, and investors will experience resale restrictions and a lack of liquidity. A penny stock is generally a stock that: · is not listed on a national securities exchange or Nasdaq; · is listed in “pink sheets” or on the NASD OTC Bulletin Board; · has a price per share of less than $5.00; and · is issued by a company with net tangible assets less than $5 million. The penny stock trading rules impose additional duties and responsibilities upon broker-dealers and salespersons effecting purchase and sale transactions in common stock and other equity securities, including: · determination of the purchaser’s investment suitability; · delivery of certain information and disclosures to the purchaser; and · receipt of a specific purchase agreement from the purchaser prior to effecting the purchase transaction. Due to the Penny Stock rules, many broker-dealers will not effect transactions in penny stocks except on an unsolicited basis. When our common stock becomes subject to the penny stock trading rules, · such rules may materially limit or restrict the ability to resell our common stock, and · the liquidity typically associated with other publicly traded equity securities may not exist. It is possible that a liquid market for our stock will never develop and you will not be able to sell your stock. There is no assurance a market will be made in our stock. If no market exists, you will not be able to sell your shares publicly, making your investment of little or no value. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 