ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have a history of losses and may incur losses in the future, which could materially reduce the market price of our securities. We incurred net losses in each of the last five fiscal years. We will need to continue to generate additional revenues and/or significantly reduce costs, including interest expense, in order to avoid additional net losses in future periods. If we do achieve profitability, we may not sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Failure to achieve or maintain profitability may materially reduce the market price of our securities. Demand for many of our products is cyclical, and we may experience prolonged depressed market conditions for such products. Historically, the markets for many of our products, particularly our commodity products, have experienced alternating periods of tight supply, causing prices and profit margins to increase, followed by periods of capacity additions, resulting in oversupply and declining prices and profit margins. Currently, several of our markets continue to experience conditions of oversupply, and the pricing of our products in these markets is depressed. Future growth in demand for these products may not be sufficient to alleviate any existing or future conditions of excess industry capacity, and such conditions may be sustained or further aggravated by anticipated or unanticipated capacity additions or other events. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from sales of commodity products. Due to the commodity nature of these products, competition in these markets is based primarily on price and to a lesser extent on performance, product quality, product deliverability and customer service. As a result, we may not be able to protect our market position for these products by product differentiation and may not be able to pass on cost increases to our customers. Historically, the prices for our commodity products have been cyclical and sensitive to relative changes in supply and demand, the availability and price of feedstocks and general economic conditions. Our other products may be subject to these same factors, but, typically, the impact of these factors is greatest on our commodity products. 42 Significant price volatility or interruptions in supply of our raw materials may result in increased costs that we may be unable to pass on to our customers, which could reduce our profitability. The prices of the raw materials that we purchase from third parties are cyclical and volatile. We purchase a substantial portion of these raw materials from third party suppliers, and the cost of these raw materials represents a substantial portion of our operating expenses. The prices for a number of these raw materials generally follow price trends of, and vary with market conditions for, crude oil and natural gas feedstocks, which are highly volatile and cyclical. In recent periods we have experienced significantly higher crude oil prices, which have resulted in increased raw material prices. Although we frequently enter into supply agreements to acquire these raw materials, these agreements typically provide for market based pricing and provide us only limited protection against price volatility. While we attempt to match cost increases with corresponding product price increases, we are not always able to raise product prices immediately or at all. Timing differences between raw material prices, which may change daily, and contract product prices, which in many cases are negotiated only monthly or less often, have had and may continue to have a negative effect on profitability. If any of our suppliers is unable to meet its obligations under present supply agreements, we may be forced to pay higher prices to obtain the necessary raw materials from other sources and we may not be able to increase prices for our finished products to recoup the higher raw materials cost. In addition, if any of the raw materials that we use become unavailable within the geographic area from which they are now sourced, then we may not be able to obtain suitable and cost effective substitutes. Any underlying cost increase that we are not able to pass on to our customers or any interruption in supply of raw materials could increase our costs or decrease our revenues, which could reduce our profitability. Natural or other disasters could disrupt our business and result in loss of revenue or in higher expenses. Any natural disaster or other serious disruption at any of our facilities due to hurricane, fire, earthquake, flood, terrorist attack or any other natural or man-made disaster could impair our ability to use our facilities and have a material adverse impact on our revenues and increase our costs and expenses. Substantially all of our revenues are derived from products manufactured at facilities, including among others, our U.S. Gulf Coast facilities, which are exposed to the risk of natural disasters. If there is a natural disaster or other serious disruption at any of these facilities, it could impair our ability to adequately supply our customers and negatively impact our operating results. In addition, many of our current and potential customers are concentrated in specific geographic areas. A natural disaster in one of these regions could have a material adverse impact on our U.S. and foreign operations, operating results and financial condition. Our available cash and access to additional capital may be limited by our substantial leverage, which could restrict our ability to grow our businesses. We reduced our indebtedness net of cash, including outstanding borrowings under our off-balance sheet accounts receivable securitization program, during 2005 by approximately $1.6 billion, but we still have a substantial amount of indebtedness outstanding. As of December 31, 2005, we had total consolidated outstanding indebtedness of approximately $4.5 billion (including the current portion of long-term debt). We may incur substantial additional debt from time to time for a variety of purposes. Our outstanding debt could have important consequences for our businesses, including: •a high degree of debt will make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our businesses, our industry or the economy in general as a significant percentage of our cash flow from operations will be required to make payments on our indebtedness, making it more difficult to react to changes in our business and in market or industry conditions; 43 •a substantial portion of our future cash flow from operations may be required to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available for other purposes, including the growth of our businesses and the payment of dividends; •our ability to obtain additional financing may be constrained due to our existing level of debt; and •part of our indebtedness is, and any future debt may be, subject to variable interest rates, which makes us vulnerable to increases in interest rates. Our existing debt instruments contain restrictive covenants that may limit our ability to utilize our cash flow to operate our businesses by restricting our ability to, among other things, make prepayments of certain debt, receive dividends from our subsidiaries, make investments and merge or consolidate and transfer or sell assets. As of December 31, 2005, the current portion of our long term debt totaled $44.6 million. We estimate that our annual interest expense for 2006 will be approximately $375 million. As of December 31, 2005, we had combined outstanding variable rate borrowings of approximately $2.3 billion. Assuming a 1% increase in interest rates, without giving effect to interest rate hedges, our annual interest rate expense would increase by approximately $23 million. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or are otherwise unable to obtain the funds required to meet payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the various covenants in the instruments governing our indebtedness, we could be in default under the terms of those instruments. In the event of a default, a holder of the indebtedness could elect to declare all the funds borrowed under those instruments to be due and payable together with accrued and unpaid interest, the lenders under our credit facilities could elect to terminate their commitments thereunder and we or one or more of our subsidiaries could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. Any of the foregoing consequences could restrict our ability to grow our business and cause the value of our securities to decline. A downgrade in the ratings of the debt securities of our subsidiaries could result in increased interest and other financial expenses related to future borrowings of our subsidiaries and could restrict our access to additional capital or trade credit. Standard and Poor's Ratings Services and Moody's Investors Service maintain credit ratings for us and HI. Each of these ratings is currently below investment grade. Any decision by these or other ratings agencies to downgrade such ratings in the future could result in increased interest and other financial expenses relating to our future borrowings and could restrict our ability to obtain additional financing on satisfactory terms. In addition, any downgrade could restrict our access to, and negatively impact the terms of, trade credit extended by our suppliers of raw materials. Existing or future litigation or legislative initiatives restricting the use of MTBE in gasoline may subject us or our products to environmental liability, materially reduce our sales and/or materially increase our costs. We produce MTBE, an oxygenate that is blended with gasoline to reduce vehicle air emissions and to enhance the octane rating of gasoline. The use of MTBE has become controversial in the U.S. and elsewhere and has been curtailed and may be eliminated in the future by legislation or regulatory action. For example, about 25 states have adopted rules that prohibit or restrict the use of MTBE in gasoline sold in those states. Those states account for a substantial portion of the "pre-ban" U.S. MTBE market. In addition, the Energy Policy Act of 2005 is beginning to have an adverse impact on our MTBE business in the U.S., since it mandates increased use of renewable fuels and eliminates the oxygenate requirement for reformulated gasoline established by the 1990 Clean Air Act Amendments. Although the extent of the potential impact of the new law is still unclear, there have been indications 44 that certain gasoline refiners and distributors may stop using MTBE and that certain pipeline companies may stop shipping gasoline containing MTBE. A significant loss in demand for our MTBE in the U.S. could result in a material loss in revenues or material costs or expenditures. Moreover, additional phase-outs or other future regulation of MTBE may result in a further reduction in demand for our MTBE in the U.S. In 2005, we marketed approximately 95% of our MTBE to customers located in the U.S. for use as a gasoline additive. Most of our 2005 sales of MTBE to U.S. customers were made pursuant to long-term agreements. During 2006 (and concluding by the first quarter of 2007), our long-term MTBE sales agreements will terminate. We anticipate that our 2006 sales of MTBE in the U.S. will decrease substantially as compared to 2005 levels. Nevertheless, we expect to continue to sell a portion of our MTBE into the U.S. market, although not pursuant to any new long-term agreements. We have entered into sales agreements to sell a significant percentage of our MTBE into the Latin American market, and we currently believe that we could also sell MTBE relatively efficiently in Europe and Asia. Nevertheless, as a result of varying market prices and transportation costs, sales of MTBE in markets outside the U.S. may produce lower margins than the sale of MTBE in the U.S. We may also elect to use all or a portion of our precursor TBA to produce saleable products other than MTBE. If we opt to produce products other than MTBE, necessary modifications to our facilities will require us to make significant capital expenditures and the sale of such other products may produce a lower level of cash flow than the sale of MTBE. A number of lawsuits have been filed, primarily against gasoline manufacturers, marketers and distributors, by persons seeking to recover damages allegedly arising from the presence of MTBE in groundwater. While we have not been named as a defendant in any litigation concerning the environmental effects of MTBE, we cannot provide assurances that we will not be involved in any such litigation or that such litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates and international business risks. Some of our subsidiaries conduct a significant portion of their business outside the U.S. These operations outside the U.S. are subject to risks normally associated with international operations. These risks include the need to convert currencies which may be received for our products into currencies in which our subsidiaries purchase raw materials or pay for services, which could result in a gain or loss depending on fluctuations in exchange rates. In addition, we translate our local currency financial results into U.S. dollars based on average exchange rates prevailing during the reporting period or the exchange rate at the end of that period. During times of a strengthening U.S. dollar, our reported international sales and earnings may be reduced because the local currency may translate into fewer U.S. dollars. Because we currently have significant operations located in the United Kingdom and continental Europe, we are primarily exposed to fluctuations in the pound sterling, the euro and the Swiss franc. Furthermore, we anticipate increased exposure to the Chinese renminbi following completion of the construction of our MDI production facilities in China through our Chinese joint ventures, currently expected in 2006. Other risks of international operations include trade barriers, tariffs, exchange controls, national and regional labor strikes, social and political risks, general economic risks and required compliance with a variety of foreign laws, including tax laws. Furthermore, in foreign jurisdictions where process of law may vary from country to country, we may experience difficulty in enforcing agreements. In jurisdictions where bankruptcy laws and practices may vary, we may experience difficulty collecting foreign receivables through foreign legal systems. The occurrence of these risks could disrupt the businesses of our international subsidiaries, which could significantly affect their ability to make distributions to us. 45 The industries in which we compete are highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete effectively with our competitors that have greater financial resources, which could reduce the trading price of our securities. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive. Among our competitors are some of the world's largest chemical companies and major integrated petroleum companies that have their own raw material resources. Some of these companies may be able to produce products more economically than we can. In addition, some of our competitors have greater financial resources, which may enable them to invest significant capital into their businesses, including expenditures for research and development. If any of our current or future competitors develops proprietary technology that enables them to produce products at a significantly lower cost, our technology could be rendered uneconomical or obsolete. Moreover, certain of our businesses use technology that is widely available. Accordingly, barriers to entry, apart from capital availability, are low in certain commodity product segments of our business, and the entrance of new competitors into the industry may reduce our ability to capture improving profit margins in circumstances where capacity utilization in the industry is increasing. Further, petroleum-rich countries have become more significant participants in the petrochemical industry and may expand this role significantly in the future. Increased competition in any of our businesses could compel us to reduce the prices of our products, which could result in reduced profit margins and/or loss of market share and reduce the trading price of our securities. Our operations involve risks that may increase our operating costs, which could reduce our profitability. Although we take precautions to enhance the safety of our operations and minimize the risk of disruptions, our operations are subject to hazards inherent in the manufacturing and marketing of differentiated and commodity chemical products. These hazards include chemical spills, pipeline leaks and ruptures, storage tank leaks, discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases and other hazards incident to the manufacturing, processing, handling, transportation and storage of dangerous chemicals. We are also potentially subject to other hazards, including natural disasters and severe weather; explosions and fires; transportation problems, including interruptions, spills and leaks; mechanical failures; unscheduled downtimes; labor difficulties; remediation complications; and other risks. Many of these hazards can cause bodily injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and environmental damage, and may result in suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties and liabilities. Furthermore, we are subject to present and future claims with respect to workplace exposure, exposure of contractors on our premises as well as other persons located nearby, workers' compensation and other matters. We maintain property, business interruption and casualty insurance policies which we believe are in accordance with customary industry practices, but we are not fully insured against all potential hazards and risks incident to our business. We maintain property damage and business interruption insurance policies with aggregate limits of $1 billion per occurrence and products liability and sudden and accidental insurance policies with aggregate per occurrence and annual limits of $600 million. We also maintain insurance policies covering other types of risks, including pollution legal liability insurance. Each of these insurance policies is subject to customary exclusions, deductibles and coverage limits. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially and, in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. If we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could materially increase our operating costs and therefore reduce our profitability. In addition, we are subject to various claims and litigation in the ordinary course of business. In conjunction with many of our past acquisitions, we have obtained indemnity agreements from the prior owners addressing liabilities that may arise from operations and events prior to our ownership. We are a party to several pending lawsuits and proceedings. It is possible that a judgment could be rendered 46 against us in these cases or others in which we could be uninsured or not covered by indemnity and beyond the amounts that we currently have reserved or anticipate incurring for such matters. See "Item 1. Business—Environmental, Health and Safety Matters" and "Item 3. Legal Proceedings." We are subject to many environmental and safety regulations that may result in unanticipated costs or liabilities, which could reduce our profitability. We are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations, rules and ordinances relating to pollution, protection of the environment and the generation, storage, handling, transportation, treatment, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances and waste materials. Actual or alleged violations of environmental laws or permit requirements could result in restrictions or prohibitions on plant operations, substantial civil or criminal sanctions, as well as, under some environmental laws, the assessment of strict liability and/or joint and several liability. Moreover, changes in environmental regulations could inhibit or interrupt our operations, or require us to modify our facilities or operations. Accordingly, environmental or regulatory matters may cause us to incur significant unanticipated losses, costs or liabilities, which could reduce our profitability. See "Item 1. Business—Environmental, Health and Safety Matters" and "Item 3. Legal Proceedings." In addition, we could incur significant expenditures in order to comply with existing or future environmental or safety laws. Capital expenditures and costs relating to environmental or safety matters will be subject to evolving regulatory requirements and will depend on the timing of the promulgation and enforcement of specific standards which impose requirements on our operations. Capital expenditures and costs beyond those currently anticipated may therefore be required under existing or future environmental or safety laws. Furthermore, we may be liable for the costs of investigating and cleaning up environmental contamination on or from our properties or at off-site locations where we disposed of or arranged for the disposal or treatment of hazardous materials or from disposal activities that pre-dated our purchase of our businesses. We may therefore incur additional costs and expenditures beyond those currently anticipated to address all such known and unknown situations under existing and future environmental laws. See "Item 1. Business—Environmental, Health and Safety Matters" and "Item 3. Legal Proceedings." We can provide no assurance that our internal control over our financial reporting will be effective when Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 becomes applicable to us. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules issued thereunder, our management is required to conduct an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of each year-end, beginning December 31, 2006. From that point, we will be required to include in our annual report on Form 10-K a report on our management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our independent registered public accounting firm will also issue an audit report on management's assessment and on our internal control over financial reporting. We have undertaken significant efforts in preparation for the requirements of Section 404. However, given the complexities and inherent risks associated with the operation of internal control over financial reporting, we can provide no assurance that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective when Section 404 becomes applicable to us. Moreover, we can provide no assurance as to any matters that might be reported in our management's assessment of our internal control over financial reporting or our independent registered public accounting firm's audit report. Ineffective internal control over financial reporting could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and could result in a lower trading price for our securities. 47 We are a holding company, with no revenue generating operations of our own. We depend on the performance of our subsidiaries and their ability to make distributions to us. We are a holding company with no business operations, sources of income, indebtedness or assets of our own other than our ownership interests in our subsidiaries. Because all our operations are conducted by our subsidiaries, our cash flow and our ability to repay our debt obligations and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders, including the dividends on our mandatory convertible preferred stock, are dependent upon cash dividends and distributions or other transfers from our subsidiaries. Payment of dividends, distributions, loans or advances by our subsidiaries to us are subject to restrictions imposed by the current and future debt instruments of our subsidiaries. In addition, payments or distributions from our subsidiaries could be subject to restrictions on dividends or repatriation of earnings under applicable local law, monetary transfer restrictions and foreign currency exchange regulations in the jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate. As of December 31, 2005, our subsidiaries had total outstanding indebtedness of approximately $4.5 billion (including the current portion of long-term debt). Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities. Any right that we have to receive any assets of or distributions from any of our subsidiaries upon the bankruptcy, dissolution, liquidation or reorganization of any such subsidiary, or to realize proceeds from the sale of their assets, will be junior to the claims of that subsidiary's creditors, including trade creditors and holders of debt or preferred stock issued by that subsidiary. Our business is dependent on our intellectual property. If our patents are declared invalid or our trade secrets become known to our competitors, our ability to compete may be impaired. Proprietary protection of our processes, apparatuses and other technology is important to our business. Consequently, we may have to rely on judicial enforcement of our patents and other proprietary rights. While a presumption of validity exists with respect to patents issued to us in the U.S., there can be no assurance that any of our patents will not be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. Furthermore, if any pending patent application filed by us does not result in an issued patent, or if patents are issued to us, but such patents do not provide meaningful protection of our intellectual property, then our ability to compete may be adversely affected. Additionally, our competitors or other third parties may obtain patents that restrict or preclude our ability to lawfully produce or sell our products in a competitive manner, which could result in significantly lower revenues, reduced profit margins and/or loss of market share. We also rely upon unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation and other trade secrets to develop and maintain our competitive position. While it is our policy to enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual property, these confidentiality agreements may be breached, may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or proprietary know-how, or adequate remedies may not be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and know-how. In addition, others could obtain knowledge of our trade secrets through independent development or other access by legal means. The failure of our patents or confidentiality agreements to protect our processes, apparatuses, technology, trade secrets or proprietary know-how could result in significantly lower revenues, reduced profit margins and/or loss of market share. Loss of key members of our management could disrupt our business. We depend on the continued employment and performance of our senior executives and other key members of management. If any of these individuals resigns or becomes unable to continue in his present role and is not adequately replaced, our business operations and our ability to implement our 48 growth strategies could be materially disrupted. We generally do not have employment agreements with, and we do not maintain any "key man" life insurance for, any of our executive officers. Terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred on September 11, 2001, the continuing military action in Iraq, general instability in various OPEC member nations, the threat of other attacks or acts of war in the U.S. and abroad and increased security regulations related to our industry could adversely affect our business. The attacks of September 11, 2001, and subsequent events, including the continuing military action in Iraq, have caused instability in the U.S. and other financial markets and have led, and may continue to lead, to further armed hostilities, prolonged military action in Iraq, or further acts of terrorism in the U.S. or abroad, which could cause further instability in financial markets. Current regional tensions and conflicts in various OPEC member nations, including the continuing military action in Iraq, have caused, and may cause further, increases in raw material costs, particularly natural gas and crude oil based feedstocks, which are used in our operations. The uncertainty surrounding the continuing military action in Iraq and the threat of further armed hostilities or acts of terrorism may impact any or all of our physical facilities and operations, which are located in North America, Europe, Australia, Asia, Africa, South America and the Middle East, or those of our customers. Furthermore, terrorist attacks, subsequent events and future developments in any of these areas may result in reduced demand from our customers for our products. In addition, local, state and federal governments have begun a regulatory process that could lead to new regulations impacting the security of chemical plant locations and the transportation of hazardous chemicals, which could result in higher operating costs. These developments will subject our worldwide operations to increased risks and, depending on their magnitude, could result in significant unanticipated costs, lower revenues and/or reduced profit margins. Future acquisitions, partnerships and joint ventures may require significant resources and/or result in significant unanticipated losses, costs or liabilities. In the future we may seek to grow our Company and businesses by making acquisitions or entering into partnerships and joint ventures. Any future acquisition, partnership or joint venture may require that we make a significant cash investment, issue stock or incur substantial debt. In addition, acquisitions, partnerships or investments may require significant managerial attention, which may be diverted from our other operations. These capital, equity and managerial commitments may impair the operation of our businesses. Furthermore, any future acquisitions of businesses or facilities could entail a number of additional risks, including: •problems with effective integration of operations; •the inability to maintain key pre-acquisition business relationships; •increased operating costs; •exposure to unanticipated liabilities; and •difficulties in realizing projected efficiencies, synergies and cost savings. We have incurred indebtedness to finance past acquisitions. We may finance future acquisitions with additional indebtedness and/or by issuing additional equity securities. As a result, we could face the financial risks associated with incurring additional indebtedness such as reducing our liquidity and access to financing markets and increasing the amount of cash flow required to service such indebtedness. 49 We are indirectly controlled by the Huntsman family and MatlinPatterson, whose interests may conflict with those of our Company or our other stockholders, and other stockholders' voting power may be limited. Jon M. Huntsman and other members of the Huntsman family and MatlinPatterson indirectly control, in the aggregate, approximately 59% of our outstanding common stock through their beneficial ownership of HMP Equity Trust and will have the ability to: •elect a majority of the members of the board of directors of our Company; •subject to applicable law and the rights of holders of our mandatory convertible preferred stock, determine, without the consent of our other stockholders, the outcome of certain matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including amendments to our certificate of incorporation, mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets; and •subject to applicable law, prevent or cause a change in control of our Company. The interests and objectives of our controlling stockholders may be different from those of our Company or our other stockholders, and our controlling stockholders may vote their common stock in a manner that may adversely affect our other stockholders. In addition, four of our directors, Mr. Jon M. Huntsman, Mr. Peter R. Huntsman, Mr. David J. Matlin and Mr. Christopher R. Pechock, control HMP Equity Trust. This may create conflicts of interest because these directors have responsibilities to HMP Equity Trust and its beneficial owners. Their duties to HMP Equity Trust and its beneficial owners may conflict with their duties as directors of our Company regarding business dealings between HMP Equity Trust and us and other matters. The resolution of these conflicts may not always be in our or our stockholders' best interest. HMP Equity Trust's controlling position and provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could discourage a takeover attempt, which may reduce or eliminate the likelihood of a change of control transaction and, therefore, your ability to sell your shares at a premium. HMP Equity Trust's controlling position, as well as provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, such as a classified board of directors, limitations on stockholder proposals at meetings of stockholders and the inability of stockholders to call special meetings, and certain provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party (other than HMP Equity Trust and its affiliates) to acquire control of our Company, even if some of our stockholders considered such a change of control to be beneficial. Our certificate of incorporation also authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. If our board of directors elects to issue preferred stock that has special voting or other rights, it could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. These provisions taken together or individually may reduce or eliminate your ability to sell your shares of common stock at a premium. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS As of December 31, 2005, we did not have any unresolved comments with the staff of the SEC. 