ITEM 1A: Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors before making an investment decision. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such cases, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. If our services do not continue to attract interest from new and existing customers, we may not maintain our current level of business or achieve future growth. If we are unable to continue to attract interest in the industry for our services, we could fail to maintain our current level of business or achieve future growth. This would have a detrimental effect on our business. Our ability to generate revenues is highly dependent on building and maintaining relationships with leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. No assurance can be given that a sufficient number of such companies will maintain or increase their demand for our services, thereby limiting the overall market and not enable us to increase our revenue. In addition, the rate of the growth of MRI and CT image-based biomarkers is difficult to predict. Failure to attract and maintain a significant customer base would have a detrimental effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The majority of the contracts we have with customers are cancelable for any reason by giving 30 days advance notice. Our customers typically engage us to perform services for them on a project-by-project basis and are required by us to enter into a written contractual agreement for the work, labor and services to be performed. Generally, our project contracts are terminable by the customer for any or no reason on 30 days’ advance notice to us. If a number of our customers were to exercise cancellation rights, our business and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. Our reported amounts to be earned from active projects and awards may not be indicative of future results. As of December 31, 2013, the amount remaining to be earned from active projects and awards was approximately $24 million. This amount is based on anticipated service revenue from project awards and uncompleted projects with clients. This is the expected service revenue that remains to be earned and recognized on signed and verbally agreed to contracts. The majority of contracts we have with customers are cancelable for any reason by giving 30 days advance notice. We cannot assure you that this amount will be indicative of future results. There are several factors that can affect whether we will realize the full benefits under a contract or award and the time over which we will realize that revenue: including: 15 •Customer cancellation due to performance reasons with their compounds in development; •Change in the scope of a project; •Timing of performance, including over multiple years; •Timing of patient recruitment and image site identification and training. Also, if clients delay projects, they will not generate revenue at the rate originally expected. Accordingly, the historical relationship of our reported projects and awards to revenues may not be indicative of future results. If we are unable to manage and sustain our growth, our operating results would be adversely affected. We have seen a growing demand for our image analysis services in clinical trials for pharmaceutical companies over the past year. Although there can be no assurance that this growth will continue or that customers will complete the clinical trial projects as awarded to us, if it does continue we may be unable to scale our capacity efficiently to meet this demand. If we are unable to do so, we may fail to maintain our operating margins or achieve expected operating margins. This may have a material and adverse effect on our operating results. Our services may become obsolete if we do not effectively respond to rapid technological change on a timely basis. Our services depend on the needs of our customers and their desire to utilize image-related services in drug and medical device development. Since the image-based biomarker industry is characterized by evolving technologies, uncertain technology and limited availability of standards, we must respond to new research findings and technological changes affecting our customers. We may not be successful in developing and marketing, on a timely and cost-effective basis, new or modified products and services, which respond to technological changes, evolving customer requirements and competition. If we are unsuccessful in this regard, our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. We have a history of operating losses and uncertain future profitability. Aside from 2011, we have incurred losses from operating activities. As we work to grow our business, we may face risks and difficulties in our business including uncertainties of maintaining our current customers, further market penetration, competition, cost increases and delays in achieving business objectives. There can be no assurance that we will succeed in addressing any or all of these risks or that we will achieve future profitability. The failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Although we believe that our services do not and will not infringe upon the patents or violate the proprietary rights of others, it is possible such infringement or violation has occurred or may occur which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Portions of our business are reliant upon patented and patentable systems and methods used in our image analysis and related intellectual property. In the event that we are deemed to infringe upon the patents or proprietary rights of others, we could be required to modify our products and services or obtain a license for the manufacture and/or sale of such services. In such event, there can be no assurance that we would be able to do so in a timely manner, upon acceptable terms and conditions, or at all, and the failure to do any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect upon our business. Moreover, there can be no assurance that we will have the financial or other resources necessary to enforce or defend a patent infringement or proprietary rights violation action. In addition, we could be subject to injunctive relief and, under certain circumstances, become liable for damages, which could also have a material adverse effect on our business. 16 We are subject to pharmaceutical, medical device and healthcare industry regulations, which could adversely affect the nature and extent of the products and services we offer. Many aspects of the pharmaceutical, medical device and healthcare industry are subject to regulation at the federal level. From time to time, the regulatory entities that have jurisdiction over the industry adopt new or modified regulations or take other actions as a result of their own regulatory processes or as directed by other governmental bodies. This changing regulatory environment could adversely affect the nature and extent of the services we are able to offer. Our failure to compete effectively in our industry could cause our revenues to decline. The image analysis industry is highly competitive. We face numerous competitors in our business. If we fail to compete effectively, we will lose clients, which would cause our business to suffer. Our ability to successfully compete is dependent on many factors, including: timely and quality performance; expertise and experience in specific therapeutic areas; the scope of service offerings; strength in various geographic markets; the price of services; our competitors’ service and product offerings; and our ability to upgrade our services in comparison to the service and product offerings of our competitors. If our services are not competitive based on these or other factors, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. We may in the future experience competition from academic sites, imaging CROs, and other competing technologies. Competition in the development of imaging solutions may become more widespread as with emerging technologies such as proteomics and genomics which can serve as predictive tools of drug efficacy. Competitors range from university-based research and development projects which would develop advanced tools to development stage companies and major domestic and international companies which would commercialize the tools. Some of these entities have greater financial, technical, marketing, sales, distribution and other resources than ours. There can be no assurance that we can continue to develop our technologies or that present or future competitors will not develop technologies that render our image-based biomarker industry obsolete or less marketable or that we will be able to introduce new products and product enhancements that are competitive with other products marketed by industry participants. We have experienced significant demand from one customer, thereby increasing our dependence on the customer until we can further diversify our customer base. While we continue to serve a broad range of customers, we have experienced strong demand from one of our customers, and our dependence on that customer to sustain our continued growth. In 2013 and 2012, this customer accounted for 42% and 45% of our revenue, respectively. We continue to see demand from other customers but not to the same significant pace. We continue to invest on our sales and marketing efforts to further diversify our customers and more broadly penetrate the market, in order to minimize reliance on any one customer. As with all of our contracts, this customer may terminate its contractual relationship with us for any or no reason on 30 days’ advance notice. A decision by the customer to cancel all of its studies with us could have an adverse impact on the growth of our business. Consolidation within the pharmaceutical industry and changes within healthcare regulation may have an adverse impact on our business. Over the past few years, there have been several mergers and acquisitions among pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Historically, these transactions have positively impacted our business due to the ability to use our strong relationships within one of the merged entities to better penetrate the combined entity. However, there can be no assurance that consolidation within the industry will continue to be beneficial to us. Additionally, with the recent political landscape and changes within the healthcare industry, there may be an adverse impact on our business if the cost of imaging significantly increases or no longer becomes standard of care for patients. Although, we do not believe imaging will decline in its level of use, if it does we may need to reduce prices or invest in research to advance the education and science of medical imaging. 17 Consolidation among our competitors could cause us to lose customers or could exert additional pressure on the prices of our services. There has been a significant amount of consolidation among providers of clinical trial imaging services and other services such as ours. Larger enterprises created through this consolidation may also have greater resources and efficiencies than our company and have other competitive advantages. As a result of this consolidation, competition to provide goods and services to customers has increased. Further consolidation in the industry could exert additional pressure on the prices of our products. Loss of key personnel, or failure to attract and retain additional personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success will be dependent on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees. On October 25, 2013, Jeff Markin resigned as our CEO and as a member of our Board of Directors, and on August 31, 2013, Molly Henderson resigned as our Chief Business and Financial Officer. The Board of Directors has appointed director Eric Converse to serve as Interim Chief Executive Officer and Jim Groff to serve as acting Chief Financial Officer. The Board of Directors is currently conducting a search for a permanent CEO. Leadership transitions can be inherently difficult to manage and may cause disruption to our business or further turnover in our workforce or management team. The loss of services of one or more other members of senior management, or the inability to attract a qualified permanent CEO, would likely have a material adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, our performance also depends on our ability to attract and retain management and qualified scientific and technical operating staff. Competition for these skilled personnel is intense. The loss of services of any key executive, or inability to continue to attract and retain qualified staff could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We do not maintain any key employee insurance on any of our executives. The trading price of our stock may be adversely affected if we are not able to maintain and grow our business. We intend to continue to use our cash on hand to broaden our market penetration of our services within the industry. If our plans or assumptions with respect to our business change or prove to be inaccurate, we may be required to use part or all of our cash to fund general operating expenses and/or reduce costs within the organization. We currently do not plan to raise additional capital. However, if we need to raise additional capital, it may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Our failure to obtain required capital, or the acquisition of capital on less favorable terms, would have a material adverse effect on our business. If we issue additional equity securities in the future, there could be a dilution or a reduction in priority of your outstanding securities. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to factors, some of which are beyond our control, such as the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; developments concerning intellectual property rights and regulatory approvals; quarterly variations in our competitors’ results of operations; changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; developments in our industry; product liability claims or other litigation; and general market conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our own operating performance. 18 Our common stock may be considered a “penny stock” and may be difficult to sell. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define “penny stock” to be an equity security that has a market or exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to specific exemptions. The market price of our common stock is currently below $5.00 per share and therefore may be designated as a “penny stock” according to SEC rules. This designation requires any broker or dealer selling these securities to disclose certain information concerning the transaction, obtain a written agreement from the purchaser and determine that the purchaser is reasonably suitable to purchase the securities. These rules may restrict the ability of brokers or dealers to sell our common stock and may affect the ability of our stockholders to sell their shares. Our strategic alliance with PPD is an important aspect of our growth, and the market may not value our strategic alliance with PPD as we anticipate. In 2010, we formed an alliance with PPD to provide a joint solution to provide clients with an integrated and customized clinical development and medical imaging solution for oncology clinical trials. The alliance was expanded in January 2012 to include cardiovascular, central nervous system and medical device studies. If the market does not value this model as we anticipate, our ability to grow our business may be negatively impacted. Additionally, the agreement may be terminated by either party on 90 days notice. In the event PPD terminates the agreement, we may also experience a negative impact in our ability to experience the level of growth we have historically achieved. Our common stock has traded at prices below $1.00 and we may not be able to maintain our NASDAQ listing. In August 2012, the Company received written notice from the Nasdaq Stock Market (“Nasdaq”) that the Company was out of compliance with Rule 5550(a)(2) of the Nasdaq Marketplace rules for not maintaining compliance with its $1.00 minimum bid price requirement. We regained compliance in September 2013 after conducting a 1-for-10 reverse stock split in August 2013. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain compliance with this or other listing requirements. However, if our common stock is delisted from Nasdaq, trading in our common stock could be conducted on the OTC Bulletin Board or in the over-the-counter market in what is commonly referred to as the "pink sheets." If this occurs, a shareholder will find it more difficult to dispose of our common stock or to obtain accurate quotations as to the price of our common stock. Lack of any active trading market would have an adverse effect on a shareholder's ability to liquidate an investment in our common stock easily and quickly at a price acceptable to the shareholder. It might also contribute to volatility in the market price of our common stock and could adversely affect our ability to raise additional equity or debt financing on acceptable terms or at all. A significant number of the shares of our common stock are eligible for sale, and their sale could negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Sales of a significant number of shares of our common stock in the public market or the possibility of such sales could harm the market price of our common stock and impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of equity securities. As of December 31, 2013, we had 2,991,869 shares of common stock outstanding. These shares are eligible for resale in the public market either immediately or subject to applicable limitations of Rule 144. In addition to these outstanding shares of common stock, we also have shares to be issued upon the conversion or exercise of outstanding options, warrants and convertible securities. These include the following numbers of shares issuable upon conversion and exercise of our preferred stock and warrants: 385,239 shares underlying series C convertible preferred stock and related warrants issued in 2012, 147,442 shares underlying series B convertible preferred stock and warrants issued in 2007 and presently registered for resale under a registration statement on Form S-3; and 181,849 shares underlying series A convertible preferred stock and warrants sold in 2005 and eligible for resale under Rule 144. We have registered on Form S-8 the sale of up to 690,000 shares issued or to be issued pursuant to our Amended and Restated 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan. Additionally, options under our 2001 and 2005 long-term incentive plans are exercisable for 41,978 shares of our common stock, and will be available for resale following cash exercise after the applicable holding period under Rule 144, or immediately following a net exercise of those securities. Sales of our common stock in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market for the shares of our common stock. 19 Our principal stockholders have significant voting power and may take actions that may not be in the best interests of other stockholders. Our officers, directors, principal stockholders (greater than 5%) and their affiliates control approximately 30% of our outstanding voting securities. If these stockholders act together, they will be able to exert significant control over our management and affairs requiring stockholder approval, including approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and might adversely affect the market price of our common stock. This concentration of ownership may not be in the best interests of all our stockholders. We do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, and the lack of dividends may have a negative effect on the stock price. We currently intend to retain our future earnings to support operations and to finance expansion and meet dividend obligations on our series C-1 and series B convertible preferred stock. In addition, the terms of our series C-1 and series B preferred stock limit our ability to pay dividends to the holders of our common stock. Therefore, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. ITEM 2: Properties In July, 2007 we began leasing approximately 19,500 square feet of office space at our corporate headquarters in Rochester, New York. In June 2012, the Company renewed its lease for five years with a lease commencement date of July 1, 2012. The base annual rent under the lease is $309,075, and increases two percent (2%) per year over the term of the lease. ITEM 3: Legal Proceedings None. ITEM 4: Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 20 PART II ITEM 5: Market For Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our shares of common stock are listed for trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the trading symbol “VSCP.” The following table sets forth the high and low closing sales prices for our common stock as reported on the NASDAQ Capital Market for the period from January 1, 2012 through December 31, 2013. A Certificate of Amendment to effect a reverse stock split was approved by the Company's stockholders at its Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on August 13, 2013. The Company’s Board of Directors subsequently approved a 1-for-10 reverse stock split of the Company’s outstanding common stock that was effected on August 21, 2013. Corresponding adjustments were made to the number of shares of common stock underlying the Company’s outstanding options, warrants, and preferred stock exercisable for or convertible into common stock and the related long-term incentive plans for such options. All share and related option information presented have been retroactively adjusted to reflect the reduced number of shares and the corresponding increase in stock price resulting from this action. These prices also do not include retail markup, markdown or commission and may not necessarily represent actual transactions. Investors should not rely on historical stock price performance as an indication of future price performance. Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2012 High Low First Quarter $16.10 $8.70 Second Quarter 15.60 8.10 Third Quarter 10.80 8.30 Fourth Quarter 9.10 5.70 Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2013 High Low First Quarter $7.80 $6.00 Second Quarter 6.80 3.80 Third Quarter 6.70 4.20 Fourth Quarter 4.82 2.93 As of February 28, 2014, we had approximately 70 registered holders of record of shares of our common stock. Dividend Policy We have never declared a cash dividend on our common stock. We intend to retain any earnings to fund future growth and the operation of our business and, therefore, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. In addition, the terms of our Series B Preferred Stock and Series C-1 Preferred Stock limit our ability to pay dividends to the holders of our common stock. Dividends may be paid on our common stock only if and when declared by our board of directors and paid on an as-converted basis to the holders of our Series A, Series B, and Series C-1 convertible preferred stock. Equity Compensation Plan Information The following table summarizes information, as of December 31, 2013, relating to our equity compensation plans: 21 Number of Securities to be Issued Upon Exercise of Outstanding Options Weighted-Average Exercise Price of Outstanding Options Number of Securities Remaining Available for Future Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans (Excluding Securities Reflected in Column (a) Plan Category (a) (b) (c) Equity compensation plans approved by security holders 399,239(1) $ 11.62 251,155 Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders 35,000(2) $ 25.00 - Total 434,239 $ 12.70 251,155 (1) This amount includes shares under the plans of VirtualScopics, LLC. Additionally, we granted to employees 390,995 options and 984 restricted stock units to purchase or be issued shares of common stock collectively, under our 2001, 2005 and 2006 Long Term Incentive Plans. Also included are 6,753 shares of common stock underlying warrants we issued to the placement agent in connection with our September 2007 private placement, which was approved by stockholders in November 2007 and an additional, 507 warrants issued to the placement agent as a result of the Series C-1 financing which triggered certain anti-dilution provisions of the Company’s Series B warrants. (2) In November 2005, our Board of Directors granted to our Chairman and former CEO, Robert Klimasewski, an option to purchase 35,000 shares of our common stock at $25 per share. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities We made no sales of unregistered securities during the quarter ended December 31, 2013. Issuer Repurchases of Equity Securities None. ITEM 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with VirtualScopics’ consolidated balance sheet, and related consolidated statements of operations, changes in stockholders’ equity and cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, included elsewhere in this report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements, the accuracy of which involves risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements for many reasons including, but not limited to, those discussed in “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this report. We disclaim any obligation to update information contained in any forward-looking statements. Overview VirtualScopics, Inc. is a leading provider of imaging solutions to accelerate drug and medical device development. We have developed a robust software platform for analysis and modeling of both structural and functional medical images. In combination with our industry-leading experience and expertise in advanced imaging biomarker measurement, this platform provides a uniquely clear window into the biological activity of drugs and devices in clinical trial patients, allowing our customers to make better decisions faster. 22 Since inception, revenues have been derived primarily from image processing services in connection with pharmaceutical drug trials. For these services, we have been concentrating in the areas of oncology, fatty liver disease, neurology, cardiovascular, and osteoarthritis. We have also derived a small portion of revenue from consulting services. We expect that the concentration of our revenue will continue in these services and in those areas in 2014. Revenues are recognized as the medical images that we process are quantified and delivered to our customers and/or the services are performed. As of December 31, 2013, the amount remaining to be earned from active projects and awards was approximately $24 million. Once we enter into a new contract for participation in a drug trial, there are several factors that can effect whether we will realize the full benefits under the contract, and the time over which we will realize that revenue. Customers may not continue our services due to performance reasons with their compounds in development. Furthermore, the contracts may contemplate performance over multiple years. Therefore, revenue may not be realized in the fiscal year in which the contract is signed or the award is made. Recognition of revenue under the contract may also be affected by the timing of patient recruitment and image site identification and training. Additionally, the majority of contracts we have with customers are cancelable for any reason by giving 30 days advance notice. Results of Operations Results of Operations for Year Ended December 31, 2013 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2012 Revenues We had revenues of $11,174,000 for the year ended December 31, 2013 compared to $12,963,000 for the year ended December 31, 2012, representing a 14% decrease. The decrease in revenues is related to the slowdown in the amount of new projects awarded in 2012, the effects of which slowdown carried over into 2013. Revenues were also impacted by the timing of the initiation of awarded and contracted projects and the large number of studies that had been completed in 2013. During the life of a project, quite often there is an expansion in the size of the study. However there are also situations where the sponsor does not recruit the number of subjects or sites as originally budgeted and in those cases there are remaining dollars at the end of the study that will not be realized into revenue. These amounts are reconciled and removed from the backlog. Over the past 15 months we have reorganized our sales function, which allows our sales personnel more time to pursue opportunities and interface with existing and prospective customers. As a result of these changes, we have experienced an increased number of proposals to 257 during 2013 as compared 216 from the same period in 2012, in particular through our strategic alliance with PPD, Inc. We believe that this increase in requests for proposals and our strategic alliance with PPD, Inc. will continue to increase the level of business activity into 2014. As of December 31, 2013, we had active projects with 10 of the leading 15 pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies in the world. Gross Profit We had a gross profit of $4,419,000 for the year ended December 31, 2013 compared to $5,251,000 for the comparable period in 2012. The gross margin for the year ended December 31, 2013 was 40% compared to 41% for the year ended December 31, 2012. Our margins declined year over year primarily as a result of the decrease in revenues encountered during 2013 as discussed above and the mix of services performed during 2013. Historically, we have experienced lower margins in our musculoskeletal projects than our oncology projects. 23 During 2013, we performed work for 35 customers, representing 138 different projects, in connection with their pharmaceutical drug trials primarily in the fields of oncology and musculoskeletal diseases (osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis) along with various other projects. This compares to 31 customers representing 123 projects in 2012. In 2013, 47% of our revenues were generated from Phase III studies compared to 48% in 2012. Additionally, for the year ended December 31, 2013, oncology, musculoskeletal and other projects represented 59%, 26%, and 15%, respectively, of our revenues. This compares to 69%, 21%, and 10%, respectively, for 2012. Research and Development Research and development costs decreased in 2013 by $92,000, or 6%, to $1,511,000, when compared to 2012. The decrease was the result of three employees terminating employment without being replaced in early third quarter of 2013 and no additional monies being spent on the personalized medicine initiative during the fourth quarter of 2013. These cost reductions were partially offset by an increase in employment incentives during the twelve month ended December 31, 2013. We are currently reevaluating our approach in this personalized medicine opportunity and have delayed any additional work on this application. Our research and development efforts within our core business center around refining our processes through the use of our software platform in order to gain efficiencies which we believe will better allow us to standardize our processes and improve our gross margin. Additionally, we continue to invest in the commercialization of new imaging techniques across various imaging modalities and therapeutic areas. As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, there were 11 and 14 employees in our research and development group. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing costs increased in 2013 by $145,000, or 10%, to $1,556,000, when compared to 2012. The increase was the result of hiring two experienced sales individuals to cover the European and West Coast US territories in the third quarter of 2012. Additionally, we experienced an increase in bookings, due to our sales and marketing initiatives, which resulted in higher commissions during the year ended December 31, 2013 as compared to the same period in 2012. Our sales and marketing efforts include conference attendance and presentations, technically-focused webinars, customer webinars and related travel along with advertising in key scientific journals. During 2013, we made further investments in driving awareness of our strategic alliance with PPD and the benefits it provides the pharmaceutical and medical device industries. The PPD alliance was expanded in January 2012 to include cardiovascular, central nervous system and medical device studies. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2013 were $3,749,000, representing an increase of $669,000 or 22%, when compared to 2012. The increase was driven by expenses realized as part of the former CEO’s separation agreement and the associated search for a replacement, and the legal, franchise, and other fees associated with the reverse stock split transaction and business initiatives, offset by a decrease in stock compensation. General and administrative expenses include both personnel and non-personnel costs. Departments included within general and administrative function are finance, information technology, quality, human resources and the CEO position. Non-payroll related costs included within general and administration include stock option expense, audit and legal fees, regulatory and compliance fees, Nasdaq listing fees, board fees, non-capitalizable hardware and software costs and licenses and non-sales related travel costs. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization charges decreased for the year ended December 31, 2013 by $54,000 or 13%, to $367,000, when compared to 2012. The reduction was due to a number of capital assets becoming completely depreciated during 2013 and reductions in spending for capital purchases during 2012. The amortization and depreciation costs are based on the timing and life of patents and property and equipment. We continue to invest in our patent portfolio, however, we do not anticipate significant expenditures are necessary to support our current business and future strategies. Our IT systems are the basis of our operating platform. Therefore, we will continue to invest in our IT infrastructure to ensure we have a robust and reliable operating system. 24 Other income (expense), net Interest income for the year ended December 31, 2013 was $6,000, representing interest derived on the Company’s operating and savings accounts, compared to interest income of $3,000 in 2012. Additionally, we recognized an unrealized gain of $16,000 related to the fair value of certain warrants that were issued in connection with our 2007 Series B offering (see Financial Statement Note 5). During 2012, we recognized an unrealized loss of $265,000 related to the fair value of those warrants. The aggregate increase of $281,000 when compared to 2012 is attributable to the lower average price of our common stock during 2013 and the decrease in the number of derivative instruments outstanding due to the elimination of the anti-dilution adjustment provision in certain Series B warrants as part of the Series C-1 financing that occurred in April 2012. Net Loss Our net loss for the year ended December 31, 2013 was $2,745,000 compared to a net loss of $1,529,000 for the year ended December 31, 2012. The increase in our net loss over the prior period was attributable to lower revenues and gross profit during 2013 in addition to the expenditures relating to the former CEO’s separation, search for a replacement, and fees incurred in connection with our reverse stock split. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our working capital as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 was approximately $6,731,000 and $8,972,000, respectively. The decrease in working capital was primarily a result of the decline in revenue resulting in additional cash used in operations. We do not expect, nor have we experienced, significant write-offs within our receivables, however, we continue to see an extension of payment terms within the industry and with several of our largest customers. Net cash used in operating activities totaled $1,126,000 in the twelve months ended December 31, 2013 compared to net cash provided in operating activities of $43,000 in the comparable 2012 period. The increase in the use of cash is mostly due to the decrease in revenues and the timing of receipts from customers in 2013 as compared to the previous year. We invested $67,000 in the purchase of equipment and the costs in patent applications and their maintenance in 2013, compared to $194,000 for the investment in these items in 2012. The decrease reflects investments in our IT and IS infrastructure in 2012 that did not reoccur in 2013. In 2014, we are planning to investment in our operating systems and infrastructure in connection with our core business. We believe these planned investments will help further enhance our abilities as a Phase III provider and continue to improve our operational efficiencies. During 2013 we incurred $18,000 in patent costs associated with filing costs for intellectual property, as compared to $23,000 in 2012. The decrease is due to the timing of office actions on our existing patent filings. Net cash provided in financing activities was $0 and $2,937,000 in 2013 and 2012, respectively. The decrease was a result of no financing transactions occurring during 2013 as compared to the previous year when we received proceeds from the exercise of options and warrants and the closing of the investment by Merck Global Health Innovation Fund, LLC in 2012. 25 We currently expect that existing cash will be sufficient to fund our existing operations for the next 12 months and foreseeable future. If in the future our plans or assumptions change or prove to be inaccurate, we may be required to seek additional capital through public or private debt or equity financings. If we need to raise additional funds, we may not be able to do so on terms favorable to us, or at all. If we cannot raise sufficient funds on acceptable terms, we may have to curtail our level of expenditures, our rate of expansion or our business operations. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no off-balance sheet arrangements, other than operating leases (as described in “Contractual Obligations” below) that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect that is material to investors on our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital resources or capital expenditures. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at December 31, 2013 which we expect to have an effect on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods. (See Item 