ITEM 1A: Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors before making an investment decision. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such cases, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. We have a history of operating losses and uncertain future profitability. VirtualScopics has incurred significant losses from operating activities since it began operations over the last seven years. We also may face risks and difficulties in our business of uncertainties of market penetration, competition, cost increases and delays in achieving business objectives. There can be no assurance that we will succeed in addressing any or all of these risks or that we will achieve future profitability and the failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. If our products and services do not continue to attract interest from new and existing customers, we may not achieve future growth. If we are unable to continue to attract interest in the industry for our services, we could fail to achieve future growth which would have a detrimental effect on our business. Our ability to generate revenues is highly dependent on building and maintaining relationships with leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. No assurance can be given that a sufficient number of such companies will increase their demand for our services, thereby limiting the overall market for image-based biomarker services and not enable us to increase our revenue to the extent expected. In addition, the rate of the growth of MRI and CT image-based biomarkers is difficult to predict. Failure to attract and maintain a significant customer base would have a detrimental effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The majority of the contracts we have with customers are cancelable for any reason by giving 30 days advance notice. Our customers typically engage us to perform services for them on a project-by-project basis and are required by us to enter into a written contractual agreement for the work, labor and services to be performed. Generally, our project contracts are terminable by the customer for any or no reason on 30 days’ advance notice to us. If a number of our customers were to exercise cancellation rights, our business and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. Our operating results will be harmed if we are unable to manage and sustain our growth. Our business is unproven on a large scale and actual operating margins may be less than expected. If we are unable to scale our capacity efficiently, we may fail to achieve expected operating margins, which would have a material and adverse effect on our operating results. Our services may become obsolete if we do not effectively respond to rapid technological change on a timely basis. Our services are new and our business model is evolving. Our services depend on the needs of our customers and their desire to utilize image-related services in drug development, new medical device development and clinical diagnosis and treatment. Since the image-based biomarker industry is characterized by evolving technologies, uncertain technology and limited availability of standards, we must respond to new research findings and technological changes affecting our customers. We may not be successful in developing and marketing, on a timely and cost-effective basis, new or modified products and services, which respond to technological changes, evolving customer requirements and competition. If we are unsuccessful in this regard, our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. 14 If we fail to protect our intellectual property, our current competitive strengths could be eroded and we could lose customers, market share and revenues. Our viability may depend on our ability to develop and maintain the proprietary aspects of our technology to distinguish our service from our competitors’ products and services. To protect our proprietary technology, we rely primarily on a combination of confidentiality procedures, copyright, trademark and patent laws. We hold United States patents which begin to expire in November 2018 through 2025. We have a number of foreign filings pending, or issued, which cover the technology that is the subject of our United States patents. We also have a number of pending United States patent applications with corresponding foreign filings. No assurance can be given that any of these patents will afford meaningful protection against a competitor or that any patent application will be issued. Patent applications filed in foreign countries are subject to laws, rules, regulations and procedures that differ from those of the United States, and thus there can be no assurance that foreign patent applications related to United States patents will issue. If these foreign patent applications issue, some foreign countries provide significantly less patent protection than the United States. In addition, in limited cases we have contractual relationships which give proprietary rights, including ownership rights, in proprietary technology to parties other than us. The status of patents involves complex legal and factual questions and the breadth of claims issued is uncertain. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our patents, and any patents that may be issued to us in the future, will afford protection against competitors with similar technology. No assurance can be given that patents issued to us will not be infringed upon or designed around by others or that others will not obtain patents that we would need to license or design around. If others’ existing or future patents containing broad claims are upheld by the courts, the holders of such patents could require companies, including us, to obtain licenses or else to design around those patents. If we are found to be infringing third-party patents, there can be no assurance that any necessary licenses would be available on reasonable terms, if at all. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products and services or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Unauthorized use of our proprietary technology could harm our business. Litigation to protect our intellectual property rights can be costly and time-consuming to prosecute, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to enforce our rights or prevent other parties from developing similar technology or designing around our intellectual property. Although we believe that our products and services do not and will not infringe upon the patents or violate the proprietary rights of others, it is possible such infringement or violation has occurred or may occur which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Portions of our business are reliant upon patented and patentable systems and methods used in our image analysis and related intellectual property. In the event that products and services we sell are deemed to infringe upon the patents or proprietary rights of others, we could be required to modify our products and services or obtain a license for the manufacture and/or sale of such products and services. In such event, there can be no assurance that we would be able to do so in a timely manner, upon acceptable terms and conditions, or at all, and the failure to do any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect upon our business. Moreover, there can be no assurance that we will have the financial or other resources necessary to enforce or defend a patent infringement or proprietary rights violation action. In addition, if our products and services or proposed products and services are deemed to infringe or likely to infringe upon the patents or proprietary rights of others, we could be subject to injunctive relief and, under certain circumstances, become liable for damages, which could also have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to numerous pharmaceutical, medical device and healthcare industry regulations, which could adversely affect the nature and extent of the products and services we offer. Many aspects of the pharmaceutical, medical device and healthcare industry are subject to regulation at the federal level. From time to time, the regulatory entities that have jurisdiction over the industry adopt new or modified regulations or take other actions as a result of their own regulatory processes or as directed by other governmental bodies. This changing regulatory environment could adversely affect the nature and extent of the services we are able to offer. 15 To date, our sales have been within the clinical trial industry. To significantly expand our business, we would need to obtain FDA clearance or approval before marketing our products into patient diagnostics. There can be no assurance that such clearance or approval would be granted or that it would be granted in a timely manner. To effectively market our products to physicians as a diagnostic and treatment aid, we would also need to obtain appropriate coverage and favorable reimbursement from third-party payors, such as Medicare. There can be no assurance that appropriate coverage would be granted or that reimbursement levels or conditions of coverage would be adequate to ensure acceptance among physicians. We may in the future experience competition from academic sites and imaging CROs. Competition in the development of image-based biomarker technologies may become more widespread. Competitors range from university-based research and development projects which would develop advanced tools to development stage companies and major domestic and international companies which would commercialize the tools. Many of these entities have financial, technical, marketing, sales, distribution and other resources significantly greater than ours. There can be no assurance that we can continue to develop our technologies or that present or future competitors will not develop technologies that render our image-based biomarker industry obsolete or less marketable or that we will be able to introduce new products and product enhancements that are competitive with other products marketed by industry participants. We have experienced significant demand from one customer, thereby increasing our dependence on the customer until we can further diversify our customer base. While we continue to serve a broad range of customers (33 customers serviced in 2008), because of the strong demand we’ve experienced from one of our customers, our dependence on the customer to sustain our continued growth has increased. We continue to see increasing demand from other customers, however, not to the same significance. We continue to invest on our sales and marketing efforts to further diversify our customers and more broadly penetrate the market, in order to minimize reliance on any one customer. As with all of our contracts, this customer may terminate its contractual relationship with us for any or no reason on 30 days’ advance notice. A decision by the customer to cancel all of its studies with us could have an adverse impact on the growth of our business. The trading price of our stock may be adversely affected if we are not able to expand. We intend to continue to use our cash on hand to broaden our market penetration of our technology within the industry. If our plans or assumptions with respect to our business change or prove to be inaccurate, we may be required to use part or all of the net proceeds to fund general operating expenses and/or reduce costs within the organization. This will depend on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: · our ability to successfully market our products; · the growth and size of the image-based biomarker technology industry; · the market acceptance of our products and services; and · our ability to manage and sustain the growth of our business. We currently do not plan to raise additional capital, however, if we need to raise additional capital, it may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Our failure to obtain required capital, or the acquisition of capital on less favorable terms, would have a material adverse effect on our business. If we issue additional equity securities in the future, you could experience dilution or a reduction in priority of your securities. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to factors, some of which are beyond our control, such as the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; developments concerning intellectual property rights and regulatory approvals; quarterly variations in our competitors’ results of operations; changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; developments in our industry; product liability claims or other litigation; and general market conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our own operating performance. 16 Our common stock may be considered a “penny stock” and may be difficult to sell. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define “penny stock” to be an equity security that has a market or exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to specific exemptions. The market price of our common stock is currently below $5.00 per share and therefore may be designated as a “penny stock” according to SEC rules. This designation requires any broker or dealer selling these securities to disclose certain information concerning the transaction, obtain a written agreement from the purchaser and determine that the purchaser is reasonably suitable to purchase the securities. These rules may restrict the ability of brokers or dealers to sell our common stock and may affect the ability of our stockholders to sell their shares. Our common stock has traded at prices below $1.00 and is subject to delisting by NASDAQ. As of the date of this report, the Company is out of compliance with section 4310(c)(8) of the Nasdaq Marketplace Rules, the minimum bid price requirements. Nasdaq has continue to extend the deadline due to general market conditions and the Company now has until August 11, 2009 to regain compliance by maintaining a bid price of our common stock at close of $1.00 or higher for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days, or such longer period as Nasdaq may determine to show the ability to maintain long-term compliance. There can be no assurance that we will be able to do so, or, maintain compliance with this or other listing requirements. The Company intends to take steps necessary to maintain its listing status on Nasdaq, however, if our common stock is delisted from Nasdaq, trading in our common stock could be conducted on the OTC Bulletin Board or in the over-the-counter market in what is commonly referred to as the "pink sheets." If this occurs, a shareholder will find it more difficult to dispose of our common stock or to obtain accurate quotations as to the price of our common stock. Lack of any active trading market would have an adverse effect on a shareholder's ability to liquidate an investment in our common stock easily and quickly at a reasonable price. It might also contribute to volatility in the market price of our common stock and could adversely affect our ability to raise additional equity or debt financing on acceptable terms or at all. A significant number of the shares of our common stock are eligible for sale, and their sale could depress the market price of the our common stock. Sales of a significant number of shares of our common stock in the public market or the possibility of such sales, could harm the market price of our common stock and impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of equity securities. As of February 27, 2009, we had 23,494,893 shares of common stock outstanding. These shares are eligible for resale in the public market either immediately or subject to applicable volume, manner of sale, holding period and other limitations of Rule 144, except for approximately 16,050,914 shares which are subject to additional restrictions under lock-up agreements from our November 2005 private placement. These lock-up agreements provide for periodic releases of shares through October 2009. In addition to these outstanding shares of common stock, the series B convertible preferred stock and the warrants to purchase common stock issued in our 2007 private placement are initially convertible into 5,680,153 shares of our common stock and registered for resale under a registration statement on Form S-3. There are also 6,416,506 shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of our series A convertible preferred stock and warrants sold in our November 2005 private placement, eligible for resale under Rule 144. Additionally, we have filed a registration statement on Form S-8 to register the sale of 2,500,000 shares issued pursuant to our 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan. Finally, we have approximately 4.8 million shares of common stock underlying options issued under our 2001, 2005 and 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plans that may be eligible for resale in the public market pursuant to an exemption under Rule 701 of the Securities Act. Sales of our common stock in the public market may have a depressive effect on the market for the shares of our common stock. Our principal stockholders have significant voting power and may take actions that may not be in the best interests of other stockholders. Our officers, directors, principal stockholders (greater than 10%) and their affiliates control approximately 45% of our outstanding voting securities. If these stockholders act together, they will be able to exert significant control over our management and affairs requiring stockholder approval, including approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and might adversely affect the market price of our common stock. This concentration of ownership may not be in the best interests of all our stockholders. 17 We do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, and the lack of dividends may have a negative effect on the stock price. We currently intend to retain our future earnings to support operations and to finance expansion and meet dividend obligations on our series B convertible preferred stock. In addition, the terms of our series B preferred stock limit our ability to pay dividends to the holders of our common stock. Therefore, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. ITEM 