D. Risk factors Some of the following risks relate principally to the industry in which we operate and our business in general. Other risks relate principally to the securities market and ownership of our common stock. The occurrence of any of the events described in this section could significantly and negatively affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash available for dividends or the trading price of our common stock. Industry Specific Risk Factors Charterhire rates for drybulk carriers are volatile and may decrease in the future, which would adversely affect our earnings The drybulk shipping industry is cyclical with attendant volatility in charterhire rates and profitability. The degree of charterhire rate volatility among different types of drybulk carriers has varied widely. Charterhire rates for Panamax and Capesize drybulk carriers have declined from their historically high levels. Because we generally charter our vessels pursuant to short-term time charters, we are exposed to changes in spot market rates for drybulk carriers and such changes may affect our earnings and the value of our drybulk carriers at any given time. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully charter our vessels in the future or renew existing charters at rates sufficient to allow us to meet our obligations or to pay dividends to our stockholders. Because the factors affecting the supply and demand for vessels are outside of our control and are unpredictable, the nature, timing, direction and degree of changes in industry conditions are also unpredictable. Factors that influence demand for vessel capacity include: · demand for and production of drybulk products; · global and regional economic and political conditions; · the distance drybulk is to be moved by sea; and · changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns. The factors that influence the supply of vessel capacity include: · the number of new building deliveries; · port and canal congestion; · the scrapping rate of older vessels; · vessel casualties; and · the number of vessels that are out of service. We anticipate that the future demand for our drybulk carriers will be dependent upon continued economic growth in the world's economies, including China and India, seasonal and regional changes in demand, changes in the capacity of the global drybulk carrier fleet and the sources and supply of drybulk cargo to be transported by sea. The capacity of the global drybulk carrier fleet seems likely to increase and there can be no assurance that economic growth will continue. Adverse economic, political, social or other developments could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. 7 The market values of our vessels may decrease, which could limit the amount of funds that we can borrow under our credit facility The fair market values of our vessels have generally experienced high volatility. The market prices for secondhand Panamax and Capesize drybulk carriers have declined from historically high levels. You should expect the market value of our vessels to fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry and prevailing charterhire rates, competition from other shipping companies and other modes of transportation, types, sizes and age of vessels, applicable governmental regulations and the cost of newbuildings. If the market value of our fleet declines, we may not be able to draw down the full amount of our credit facility and we may not be able to obtain other financing or incur debt on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. The market values of our vessels may decrease, which could cause us to breach covenants in our credit facility and adversely affect our operating results If the market values of our vessels, which have declined from historically high levels, decrease further, we may breach some of the covenants contained in the financing agreements relating to our indebtedness at the time, including covenants in our credit facility. If we do breach such covenants and we are unable to remedy the relevant breach, our lenders could accelerate our debt and foreclose on our fleet. In addition, if the book value of a vessel is impaired due to unfavorable market conditions or a vessel is sold at a price below its book value, we would incur a loss that could adversely affect our operating results. World events could affect our results of operations and financial condition Terrorist attacks such as those in New York on September 11, 2001 and in London on July 7, 2005 and the continuing response of the United States to these attacks, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks in the United States or elsewhere, continues to cause uncertainty in the world's financial markets and may affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The continuing conflict in Iraq may lead to additional acts of terrorism and armed conflict around the world, which may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. These uncertainties could also adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. In the past, political conflicts have also resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Arabian Gulf region. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our operating results, revenues and costs. Terrorist attacks, such as the October 2002 attack on the VLCC Limburg, a vessel not related to us, may in the future also negatively affect our operations and financial condition and directly impact our vessels or our customers. Future terrorist attacks could result in increased volatility of the financial markets in the United States and globally and could result in an economic recession affecting the United States or the entire world. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our revenues and costs. 8 Our operating results are subject to seasonal fluctuations, which could affect our operating results and the amount of available cash with which we can pay dividends We operate our vessels in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand and, as a result, in charterhire rates. This seasonality may result in quarter-to-quarter volatility in our operating results, which could affect the amount of dividends that we pay to our stockholders from quarter to quarter. The drybulk carrier market is typically stronger in the fall and winter months in anticipation of increased consumption of coal and other raw materials in the northern hemisphere during the winter months. In addition, unpredictable weather patterns in these months tend to disrupt vessel scheduling and supplies of certain commodities. As a result, our revenues have historically been weaker during the fiscal quarters ended June 30 and September 30, and, conversely, our revenues have historically been stronger in fiscal quarters ended December 31 and March 31. While this seasonality has not materially affected our operating results, it could materially affect our operating results and cash available for distribution to our stockholders as dividends in the future. Rising fuel prices may adversely affect our profits Fuel is a significant, if not the largest, expense in our shipping operations when vessels are not under period charter. Changes in the price of fuel may adversely affect our profitability. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. Further, fuel may become much more expensive in the future, which may reduce the profitability and competitiveness of our business versus other forms of transportation, such as truck or rail. We are subject to international safety regulations and the failure to comply with these regulations may subject us to increased liability, may adversely affect our insurance coverage and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports The operation of our vessels is affected by the requirements set forth in the United Nations’ International Maritime Organization's International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and Pollution Prevention, or “ISM Code.” The ISM Code requires shipowners, ship managers and bareboat charterers to develop and maintain an extensive “Safety Management System” that includes the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for safe operation and describing procedures for dealing with emergencies. The failure of a shipowner or bareboat charterer to comply with the ISM Code may subject it to increased liability, may invalidate existing insurance or decrease available insurance coverage for the affected vessels and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. 9 Maritime claimants could arrest one or more of our vessels, which could interrupt our cash flow Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a claimant may seek to obtain security for its claim by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our cash flow and require us to pay large sums of money to have the arrest or attachment lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the “sister ship” theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant's maritime lien and any “associated” vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could attempt to assert “sister ship” liability against one vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another of our vessels. Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency, resulting in a loss of earnings A government could requisition one or more of our vessels for title or for hire. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes her owner, while requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes her charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during periods of war or emergency, although governments may elect to requisition vessels in other circumstances. Although we would be entitled to compensation in the event of a requisition of one or more of our vessels, the amount and timing of payment would be uncertain. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels may negatively impact our revenues and reduce the amount of cash we have available for distribution as dividends to our stockholders. Company Specific Risk Factors We are dependent on short-term time charters in a volatile shipping industry and a decline in charterhire rates would affect our results of operations and ability to pay dividends We charter our vessels primarily pursuant to short-term time charters. The short-term time charter market is highly competitive and spot market charterhire rates (which affect time charter rates) may fluctuate significantly based upon available charters and the supply of, and demand for, seaborne shipping capacity. While our focus on the short-term time charter market may enable us to benefit in periods of increasing charterhire rates, we must consistently renew our charters and this dependence makes us vulnerable to declining charter rates. As a result of the volatility in the drybulk carrier charter market, we may not be able to employ our vessels upon the termination of their existing charters at their current charterhire rates. The drybulk carrier charter market is volatile, and in the past short-term time charter and spot market charter rates for drybulk carriers have declined below operating costs of vessels. We cannot assure you that future charterhire rates will enable us to operate our vessels profitably or to pay you dividends. 10 Our earnings may be adversely affected if we are not able to take advantage of favorable charter rates We charter our dry bulk carriers to customers primarily pursuant to spot market voyage charters or short-term time charters, which generally last from several days to several weeks, and time charters, which can last up to several years. We may in the future extend the charter periods for additional vessels in our fleet. Our vessels that are committed to longer-term charters may not be available for employment on short-term charters during periods of increasing short-term charter hire rates when these charters may be more profitable than long-term charters. Investment in derivative instruments such as freight forward agreements could result in losses From time to time, we may take positions in derivative instruments including freight forward agreements, or FFAs. FFAs and other derivative instruments may be used to hedge a vessel owner's exposure to the charter market by providing for the sale of a contracted charter rate along a specified route and period of time. Upon settlement, if the contracted charter rate is less than the average of the rates, as reported by an identified index, for the specified route and period, the seller of the FFA is required to pay the buyer an amount equal to the difference between the contracted rate and the settlement rate, multiplied by the number of days in the specified period. Conversely, if the contracted rate is greater than the settlement rate, the buyer is required to pay the seller the settlement sum. If we take positions in FFAs or other derivative instruments and do not correctly anticipate charter rate movements over the specified route and time period, we could suffer losses in the settling or termination of the FFA. This could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. We depend entirely on Cardiff to manage and charter our fleet We currently have two employees, our Chief Executive Officer who also acts as the Interim Chief Financial Officer, and our Internal Auditor. Following the resignation of our Chief Financial Officer on May 29, 2007, we are seeking to employ a Chief Financial Officer. We have no plans to hire additional employees. We subcontract the commercial and technical management of our fleet, including crewing, maintenance and repair to Cardiff Marine Inc. (“Cardiff”), an affiliated company. 70% of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Cardiff is owned by a foundation which is controlled by Mr. Economou, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and a director of our Company. The remaining 30% of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Cardiff is owned by a company controlled by the sister of Mr. Economou. The loss of Cardiff’s services or its failure to perform its obligations to us could materially and adversely affect the results of our operations. Although we may have rights against Cardiff if it defaults on its obligations to us, you will have no recourse against Cardiff. Further, we are required to seek approval from our lenders to change our manager. Cardiff is a privately held company and there is little or no publicly available information about it The ability of Cardiff to continue providing services for our benefit will depend in part on its own financial strength. Circumstances beyond our control could impair Cardiff’s financial strength, and because it is privately held it is unlikely that information about its financial strength would become public unless Cardiff began to default on its obligations. As a result, an investor in our shares might have little advance warning of problems affecting Cardiff, even though these problems could have a material adverse effect on us. 11 Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer has affiliations with Cardiff which could create conflicts of interest Our majority shareholder is controlled by Mr. George Economou who controls two companies that, in aggregate, own 34.3% of us and a foundation that owns 70% of Cardiff. Mr. Economou is also our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Interim Chief Financial Officer and a director of our Company. These responsibilities and relationships could create conflicts of interest between us, on the one hand, and Cardiff, on the other hand. These conflicts may arise in connection with the chartering, purchase, sale and operations of the vessels in our fleet versus drybulk carriers managed by other companies affiliated with Cardiff and Mr. Economou. In particular, Cardiff may give preferential treatment to vessels that are beneficially owned by related parties because Mr. Economou and members of his family may receive greater economic benefits. Companies affiliated with Cardiff own and may acquire vessels that compete with our fleet McCallister Shipping S.A., Erato Owning Company Limited and Glorious Marine Co. Ltd. are companies affiliated with Cardiff that each owns a Capesize drybulk carrier. Mentor Owning Company Limited and Iris Owing Company Limtied are companies affiliated with Cardiff that each owns a Handymax drybulk carrier. The five vessels owned by those companies, or the “Bareboat Charter Vessels”, are currently employed under bareboat charters that end in the period from June 2007 to September 2014. Subject to the obligations of Mr. Economou set forth in a letter agreement between him and the Company to use commercially reasonable efforts to cause the sale of the Bareboat Charter Vessels, and to give us a right of first refusal to acquire them, when the Bareboat Charter Vessels are redelivered to the owners, they may be managed by Cardiff in competition with our fleet. In addition, Cardiff’s affiliates may acquire additional drybulk carriers in the future, subject to a right of first refusal that Mr. Economou has granted to us in that letter agreement. Furthermore, Panatrade Shipping and Management S.A., Calypso Marine Corp., Oil Transport Investments Limited, Innovative Investments Limited and Ambassador Shipping Corporation, companies affiliated with Cardiff, each own a Capesize drybulk carrier. These vessels also could be in competition with our fleet and Cardiff and other companies affiliated with Cardiff might be faced with conflicts of interest with respect to their own interests and their obligations to us. We cannot assure you that our board of directors will declare dividends Our current dividend policy is to declare quarterly distributions to stockholders of $0.20 per share by each January, April, July and October. The payment of dividends will be subject at all times to the discretion of our board of directors. The timing and amount of dividends will depend on our earnings, financial condition, cash requirements and availability, restrictions in our loan agreements, the provisions of Marshall Islands law affecting the payment of dividends and other factors. The declaration and payment of dividends, if any, will always be subject to the discretion of our board of directors. The timing and amount of any dividends declared will depend on, among other things, our earnings, financial condition and cash requirements and availability, our ability to obtain debt and equity financing on acceptable terms as contemplated by our growth strategy and provisions of Marshall Islands law affecting the payment of dividends. The international drybulk shipping industry is highly volatile, and we cannot predict with certainty the amount of cash, if any, that will be available for distribution as dividends in any period. Also, there may be a high degree of variability from period to period in the amount of cash that is available for the payment of dividends. 12 We may incur expenses or liabilities or be subject to other circumstances in the future that reduce or eliminate the amount of cash that we have available for distribution as dividends, including as a result of the risks described in this annual report. Our growth strategy contemplates that we will finance the acquisition of additional vessels through a combination of debt and equity financing on terms acceptable to us. If financing is not available to us on acceptable terms, our board of directors may determine to finance or refinance acquisitions with cash from operations, which would reduce or even eliminate the amount of cash available for the payment of dividends. Marshall Islands law generally prohibits the payment of dividends other than from surplus (retained earnings and the excess of consideration received for the sale of shares above the par value of the shares) or while a company is insolvent or would be rendered insolvent by the payment of such a dividend. We may not have sufficient surplus in the future to pay dividends. We can give no assurance that dividends will be paid in the amounts contemplated by our dividend policy, or at all. We may have difficulty managing our planned growth properly We intend to continue to grow our fleet. Our future growth will primarily depend on our ability to: · locate and acquire suitable vessels; · identify and consummate acquisitions or joint ventures; · enhance our customer base; · manage our expansion; and · obtain required financing on acceptable terms. Growing any business by acquisition presents numerous risks, such as undisclosed liabilities and obligations, the possibility that indemnification agreements will be unenforceable or insufficient to cover potential losses and difficulties associated with imposing common standards, controls, procedures and policies, obtaining additional qualified personnel, managing relationships with customers and integrating newly acquired assets and operations into existing infrastructure. We cannot give any assurance that we will be successful in executing our growth plans or that we will not incur significant expenses and losses in connection with our future growth. Our credit facilities impose operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability to, among other things: · pay dividends or make capital expenditures if we do not repay amounts drawn under the credit facilities, if there is a default under the credit facilities or if the payment of the dividend or capital expenditure would result in a default or breach of a loan covenant; 13 · incur additional indebtedness, including through the issuance of guarantees; · change the flag, class or management of our vessels; · create liens on our assets; · sell our vessels; · merge or consolidate with, or transfer all or substantially all our assets to, another person; and/or · enter into a new line of business. Therefore, we may need to seek permission from our lenders in order to engage in some corporate actions. Our lenders' interests may be different from ours and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain our lender's permission when needed. This may limit our ability to pay dividends to you, finance our future operations, make acquisitions or pursue business opportunities. Our loan agreements may prohibit or impose certain conditions on the payment of dividends Under our new credit facility we are restricted in our payments of dividends. For example, we agreed that we would not pay dividends in 2006 in excess of $18.0 million; however we were permitted to request our lender’s consent for additional dividend payments. Thereafter, we have agreed not to pay dividends in any year that exceed 50% of our net income for that year, as evidenced by the relevant annual audited financial statements. On November 15, 2006 we requested and received consent from our lender for the payment of third quarter dividends of $7.0 million, which exceeded the $18.0 million threshold for 2006. Purchasing and operating secondhand vessels may result in increased operating costs and reduced fleet utilization While we have the right to inspect previously owned vessels prior to our purchase of them and we intend to inspect all secondhand vessels that we acquire in the future, such an inspection does not provide us with the same knowledge about their condition that we would have if these vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us. A secondhand vessel may have conditions or defects that we were not aware of when we bought the vessel and which may require us to incur costly repairs to the vessel. These repairs may require us to put a vessel into drydock which would reduce our fleet utilization. Furthermore, we usually do not receive the benefit of warranties on secondhand vessels. In the highly competitive international shipping industry, we may not be able to compete for charters with new entrants or established companies with greater resources We employ our vessels in a highly competitive market that is capital intensive and highly fragmented. Competition arises primarily from other vessel owners, some of whom have substantially greater resources than we do. Competition for the transportation of drybulk cargo by sea is intense and depends on price, location, size, age, condition and the acceptability of the vessel and its operators to the charterers. Due in part to the highly fragmented market, competitors with greater resources could enter the drybulk shipping industry and operate larger fleets through consolidations or acquisitions and may be able to offer lower charter rates and higher quality vessels than we are able to offer. 14 We may be unable to attract and retain key management personnel and other employees in the shipping industry, which may negatively impact the effectiveness of our management and results of operations Our success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of our management team. The loss of any of these individuals, difficulty in hiring and retaining personnel could adversely affect our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We have entered into employment contracts with our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, George Economou, and our former Chief Financial Officer, Gregory Zikos. Mr. Zikos resigned on May 29, 2007 and Mr. Economou has been appointed interim Chief Financial Officer. Our success will depend upon our ability to retain key members of our management team and to hire new members as may be necessary. The loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business prospects and financial condition. Difficulty in hiring and retaining replacement personnel could have a similar effect. We do not currently, nor do we intend to, maintain “key man” life insurance on any of our officers. Risks associated with operating ocean-going vessels could affect our business and reputation, which could adversely affect our revenues and stock price The operation of ocean-going vessels carries inherent risks. These risks include the possibility of: · marine disaster; · environmental accidents; · cargo and property losses or damage; · business interruptions caused by mechanical failure, human error, war, terrorism, political action in various countries, labor strikes or adverse weather conditions; and/or · piracy. The involvement of our vessels in an environmental disaster may harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator. Any of these circumstances or events could increase our costs or lower our revenues. The shipping industry has inherent operational risks that may not be adequately covered by our insurance We procure insurance for our fleet against risks commonly insured against by vessel owners and operators. Our current insurance includes hull and machinery insurance, war risks insurance and protection and indemnity insurance (which includes environmental damage and pollution insurance). We can give no assurance that we are adequately insured against all risks or that our insurers will pay a particular claim. Even if our insurance coverage is adequate to cover our losses, we may not be able to timely obtain a replacement vessel in the event of a loss. Furthermore, in the future, we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates for our fleet. We may also be subject to calls, or premiums, in amounts based not only on our own claim records but also the claim records of all other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive indemnity insurance coverage for tort liability. Our insurance policies also contain deductibles, limitations and exclusions which, although we believe are standard in the shipping industry, may nevertheless increase our costs. 15 The aging of our fleet may result in increased operating costs in the future, which could adversely affect our earnings In general, the cost of maintaining a vessel in good operating condition increases with the age of the vessel. As of December 31, 2006, the 34 vessels in our fleet had an average age of 10.6 years. As our fleet ages, we will incur increased costs. Older vessels are typically less fuel efficient and more costly to maintain than more recently constructed vessels due to improvements in engine technology. Cargo insurance rates increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers. Governmental regulations and safety or other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may also require expenditures for alterations or the addition of new equipment to our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which our vessels may engage. We cannot assure you that, as our vessels age, market conditions will justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. We may have to pay tax on United States source income, which would reduce our earnings. Under the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or the Code, 50% of the gross shipping income of a vessel owning or chartering corporation, such as ourselves and our subsidiaries, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States is characterized as United States source shipping income and such income is subject to a 4% United States federal income tax without allowance for any deductions, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder in August of 2003 and effective for calendar year taxpayers such as us on January 1, 2005. For the fiscal year 2006, the Company qualified for the exemption from U.S. tax on its international shipping operation based on its satisfaction of the Country of Organization test and the Publicly Traded Test, in each case in accordance with the applicable regulations. If we or our subsidiaries are not entitled to this exemption under Section 883 for any taxable year, we or our subsidiaries would be subject for those years to a 4% United States federal income tax on our U.S.-source shipping income. The imposition of this taxation could have a negative effect on our business and would result in decreased earnings available for distribution to our shareholders. For the 2006 taxable year, we estimate that our maximum United States federal income tax liability would be $0.4 million if we were to be subject to this taxation. 16 Our vessels may suffer damage and we may face unexpected drydocking costs, which could adversely affect our cash flow and financial condition If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a drydocking facility. The costs of drydock repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. The loss of earnings while our vessels are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease our earnings and reduce the amount of cash that we have available for dividends. We may not have insurance that is sufficient to cover all or any of these costs or losses and may have to pay drydocking costs not covered by our insurance. We are a holding company, and we depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us in order to satisfy our financial obligations and to make dividend payments We are a holding company and our subsidiaries conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. We have no significant assets other than the equity interests in our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to make dividend payments depends on our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. If we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries, our board of directors may exercise its discretion not to declare or pay dividends. We do not intend to obtain funds from other sources to pay dividends. In addition, the declaration and payment of dividends will depend on the provisions of Marshall Islands law affecting the payment of dividends. Marshall Islands law generally prohibits the payment of dividends if the company is insolvent or would be rendered insolvent upon payment of such dividend and dividends may be declared and paid out of our operating surplus; but in this case, there is no such surplus. Dividends may be declared or paid out of net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared and for the preceding fiscal year. Our ability to pay dividends will also be subject to our satisfaction of certain financial covenants contained in our credit facilities. There can be no assurance that dividends will be paid in the anticipated amounts or at all. As we expand our business, we may need to improve our operating and financial systems and will need to recruit suitable employees and crew for our vessels Our current operating and financial systems may not be adequate as we expand the size of our fleet and our attempts to improve those systems may be ineffective. In addition, as we expand our fleet, we will need to recruit suitable additional seafarers and shoreside administrative and management personnel. While we have not experienced any difficulty in recruiting to date, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue to hire suitable employees as we expand our fleet. If we or our crewing agent encounters business or financial difficulties, we may not be able to adequately staff our vessels. If we are unable to grow our financial and operating systems or to recruit suitable employees as we expand our fleet, our financial performance may be adversely affected and, among other things, the amount of cash available for distribution as dividends to our shareholders may be reduced. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock There is no guarantee of a continuing public market for you to resell our common stock Our common shares commenced trading on the Nasdaq National Market, now the Nasdaq Global Market, in February 2005. We cannot assure you that an active and liquid public market for our common shares will continue. The price of our common stock may be volatile and may fluctuate due to factors such as: 17 · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results and those of other public companies in our industry; · mergers and strategic alliances in the drybulk shipping industry; · market conditions in the drybulk shipping industry and the general state of the securities markets; · changes in government regulation; · shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecast by securities analysts; and · announcements concerning us or our competitors. You may not be able to sell your shares of our common stock in the future at the price that you paid for them or at all. We are incorporated in the Republic of the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of corporate law and as a result, shareholders may have fewer rights and protections under Marshall Islands law than under a typical jurisdiction in the United States Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restaed articles of incorporation and bylaws and by the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act, or “BCA.” The provisions of the BCA resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, there have been few judicial cases in the Republic of the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA. The rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the law of the Republic of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain United States jurisdictions. Shareholder rights may differ as well. While the BCA does specifically incorporate the non-statutory law, or judicial case law, of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction. A small number of our stockholders effectively control the outcome of matters on which our stockholders are entitled to vote Entities affiliated with Mr. Economou, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and interim Chief Financial Officer currently own, directly or indirectly, approximately 34.3% of our outstanding common stock. While those stockholders have no agreement, arrangement or understanding relating to the voting of their shares of our common stock, they will effectively control the outcome of matters on which our stockholders are entitled to vote, including the election of directors and other significant corporate actions. The interests of these stockholders may be different from your interests. 18 Future sales of our common stock could cause the market price of our common stock to decline Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, may depress the market price for our common stock. These sales could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of our equity securities in the future. We may issue additional shares of our common stock in the future and our stockholders may elect to sell large numbers of shares held by them from time to time. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation authorize us to issue 75,000,000 common shares with par value $0.01 per share of which 35,490,097 shares are outstanding. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents could make it difficult for our stockholders to replace or remove our current board of directors or have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Several provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws could make it difficult for our stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors in any one year, preventing them from changing the composition of management. In addition, the same provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable. These provisions include: · authorizing our board of directors to issue “blank check” preferred stock without stockholder approval; · providing for a classified board of directors with staggered, three year terms; · prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; · authorizing the removal of directors only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock entitled to vote for the directors; · prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; · limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; and · establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. Item 