D. Risk factors Some of the following risks relate principally to the industries in which we operate and our business in general. Other risks relate principally to the securities market and ownership of our common stock. The occurrence of any of the events described in this section could significantly and negatively affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows or our ability to pay dividends, if any, in the future, or the trading price of our common stock. 4 Table of Contents International Drybulk Shipping Industry Specific Risk Factors While the drybulk carrier charter market has recently strengthened, it remains significantly below the high in 2008, which has adversely affected our revenues, earnings and profitability and our ability to comply with our loan covenants. The Baltic Drybulk Index, or BDI, declined from a high of 11,793 in May 2008 to a low of 663 in December 2008, which represents a decline of 94%. The BDI fell over 70% during the month of October alone. Over the comparable period of May through December 2008, the high and low of the Baltic Panamax Index and the Baltic Capesize Index represent a decline of 96% and 99%, respectively. During 2009 the BDI increased from a low of 772 and reached a high of 4,661 in November of 2009. In 2010, the BDI decreased from a high of 3,235 in January 2010 to 2,911 in March 2010, reaching its high of 3,299 in January 2010. On April 1, 2010, the BDI was 2,991. The decline and volatility in charter rates is due to various factors, including the lack of trade financing for purchases of commodities carried by sea, which had resulted in a significant decline in cargo shipments. In 2009 Chinese iron ore imports increased by 41% compared to 2008 and coal imports rose by 210% in the same period. The decline and volatility in charter rates in the drybulk market also affects the value of our drybulk vessels, which follows the trends of drybulk charter rates, and earnings on our charters, and similarly, affects our cash flows, liquidity and compliance with the covenants contained in our loan agreements. As of April 6, 2010, we employ no vessels in the spot market. We employ 35 of the 37 vessels in our drybulk carrier fleet on time charters and the remaining two vessels on bareboat charters at fixed rates as of April 6, 2010. If the low charter rates in the drybulk market continue for any significant period in 2010, this would have an adverse effect on our vessel values and our ability to comply with the financial covenants in our loan agreements. In such a situation, unless our lenders are willing to provide waivers of covenant compliance or modifications to our covenants, our lenders could accelerate our debt and we could face the loss of our vessels. Charter hire rates for drybulk carriers have decreased, which have continued to adversely affect our earnings. The drybulk shipping industry is cyclical with attendant volatility in charter hire rates and profitability. For example, the degree of charter hire rate volatility among different types of drybulk carriers has varied widely. After reaching historical highs in mid-2008, charter hire rates for Panamax and Capesize drybulk carriers reached near historical lows levels in December 2008, began improving in January and February 2009 and after a volatile year, the BDI rose to over 4,000 in November 2009, the high for the year, although still below the historical highs of recent years. In 2010, the BDI decreased from a high of 3,235 in January 2010 to 2,911 in March 2010, reaching its high of 3,299 in January 2010. On April 1, 2010, the BDI was 2,991. We may not be able to successfully charter our vessels in the future or renew existing charters at rates sufficient to allow us to meet our obligations. Because the factors affecting the supply and demand for vessels are outside of our control and are unpredictable, the nature, timing, direction and degree of changes in industry conditions are also unpredictable. If charter rates in the drybulk market decline and remain at low levels for any significant period in 2010, this could have an adverse effect on our vessel values and our ability to comply with the financial covenants in our loan agreements. Factors that influence demand for vessel capacity include: • supply and demand for energy resources, commodities, semi-finished and finished consumer and industrial products; • changes in the exploration or production of energy resources, commodities, semi-finished and finished consumer and industrial products; • the location of regional and global exploration, production and manufacturing facilities 5 Table of Contents • the location of consuming regions for energy resources, commodities, semi-finished and finished consumer and industrial products; • the globalization of production and manufacturing; • global and regional economic and political conditions, including armed conflicts, terrorist activities, embargoes and strikes; • developments in international trade; • changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including the distance cargo is transported by sea; • environmental and other regulatory developments; • currency exchange rates; and • weather. The factors that influence the supply of vessel capacity include: • the number of newbuilding deliveries; • port and canal congestion; • the scrapping rate of older vessels; • vessel casualties; and • the number of vessels that are out of service. We anticipate that the future demand for our drybulk carriers will be dependent upon continued economic growth in the world’s economies, including China and India, seasonal and regional changes in demand, changes in the capacity of the global drybulk carrier fleet and the sources and supply of drybulk cargoes to be transported by sea. The capacity of the global drybulk carrier fleet seems likely to increase and economic growth may not continue. Adverse economic, political, social or other developments could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. An over-supply of drybulk carrier capacity may lead to reductions in charter hire rates and profitability. The market supply of drybulk carriers has been increasing, and the number of drybulk carriers on order is near historic highs. These newbuildings were delivered in significant numbers starting at the beginning of 2006 and continued through 2009. As of March 2010, newbuilding orders had been placed for an aggregate of more than 61.1% of the existing global drybulk fleet, with deliveries expected during the next 3 years. An over-supply of drybulk carrier capacity may result in a further reduction of charter hire rates. If such a reduction occurs, upon the expiration or termination of our vessels’ current charters we may only be able to re-charter our vessels at reduced or unprofitable rates or we may not be able to charter these vessels at all. The market values of our vessels may decrease, which could limit the amount of funds that we can borrow or trigger certain financial covenants under our current or future credit facilities and or we may incur a loss if we sell vessels following a decline in their market value. 6 Table of Contents The fair market values of our vessels are related to prevailing freight charter rates. While the fair market value of vessels and the freight charter market have a very close relationship as the charter market moves from trough to peak, the time lag between the effect of charter rates on market values of ships can vary. The fair market value of our vessels may increase and decrease depending on a number of factors including: • prevailing level of charter rates; • general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry; • types and sizes of vessels; • supply and demand for vessels; • other modes of transportation; • cost of newbuildings; • governmental and other regulations; and • technological advances. In addition, as vessels grow older, they generally decline in value. If the fair market value of our vessels declines, we may not be in compliance with certain provisions of our credit facilities, and our lenders could accelerate our indebtedness or require us to pay down our indebtedness to a level where we are again in compliance with our loan covenants. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not be able to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing. In addition, if we sell one or more of our vessels at a time when vessel prices have fallen and before we have recorded an impairment adjustment to our consolidated financial statements, the sale may be less than the vessel’s carrying value on our consolidated financial statements, resulting in a loss and a reduction in earnings. Furthermore, if vessel values fall significantly we may have to record an impairment adjustment in our financial statements which could adversely affect our financial results. An economic slowdown in the Asia Pacific region could exacerbate the effect of recent slowdowns in the economies of the United States and the European Union and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We anticipate a significant number of the port calls made by our vessels will continue to involve the loading or discharging of drybulk commodities in ports in the Asia Pacific region. As a result, any negative changes in economic conditions in any Asia Pacific country, particularly in China, may exacerbate the effect of recent slowdowns in the economies of the United States and the European Union and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as our future prospects. In recent years, China has been one of the world’s fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product, which has had a significant impact on shipping demand. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the growth of China’s gross domestic product from the prior year ended December 31, 2008 was approximately 8.7%, compared with a growth rate of 10.6% over the same two-year period ended December 31, 2008. It is possible that China and other countries in the Asia Pacific region will continue to experience slower economic growth in the near future. Moreover, the current economic slowdown in the economies of the United States, the European Union and other Asian countries may further adversely affect economic growth in China and elsewhere. Our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as our future prospects, will likely be adversely affected by a further economic downturn in any of these countries. 7 Table of Contents Changes in the economic and political environment in China and policies adopted by the government to regulate its economy may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, in such respects as structure, government involvement, level of development, growth rate, capital reinvestment, allocation of resources, rate of inflation and balance of payments position. Prior to 1978, the Chinese economy was a planned economy. Since 1978, increasing emphasis has been placed on the utilization of market forces in the development of the Chinese economy. Annual and five-year state plans are adopted by the Chinese government in connection with the development of the economy. Although state-owned enterprises still account for a substantial portion of the Chinese industrial output, in general, the Chinese government is reducing the level of direct control that it exercises over the economy through state plans and other measures. There is an increasing level of freedom and autonomy in areas such as allocation of resources, production, pricing and management and a gradual shift in emphasis to a “market economy” and enterprise reform. Limited price reforms were undertaken with the result that prices for certain commodities are principally determined by market forces. Many of the reforms are unprecedented or experimental and may be subject to revision, change or abolition based upon the outcome of such experiments. If the Chinese government does not continue to pursue a policy of economic reform, the level of imports to and exports from China could be adversely affected by changes to these economic reforms by the Chinese government, as well as by changes in political, economic and social conditions or other relevant policies of the Chinese government, such as changes in laws, regulations or export and import restrictions, all of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Disruptions in world financial markets and the resulting governmental action in the United States and in other parts of the world could have a further material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and could cause the market price of our common stock to further decline. The United States and other parts of the world have exhibited weak economic conditions and have been in a recession. For example, the credit markets in the United States have experienced significant contraction, de-leveraging and reduced liquidity, and the United States federal government and state governments have implemented and are considering a broad variety of governmental action and/or new regulation of the financial markets. Securities and futures markets and the credit markets are subject to comprehensive statutes, regulations and other requirements. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, other regulators, self-regulatory organizations and exchanges are authorized to take extraordinary actions in the event of market emergencies, and may effect changes in law or interpretations of existing laws. Recently, a number of financial institutions have experienced serious financial difficulties and, in some cases, have entered bankruptcy proceedings or are in regulatory enforcement actions. The uncertainty surrounding the future of the credit markets in the United States and the rest of the world has resulted in reduced access to credit worldwide. As of December 31, 2009, we had total long term debt outstanding of $2.9 billion. We face risks attendant to changes in economic environments, changes in interest rates, and instability in the banking and securities markets around the world, among other factors. Major market disruptions and the current adverse changes in market conditions and regulatory climate in the United States and worldwide may adversely affect our business or impair our ability to borrow amounts under our credit facilities or any future financial arrangements. We cannot predict how long the current market conditions will last. However, these recent and developing economic and governmental factors, together with the concurrent decline in charter rates and vessel values, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, have caused the price of our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market to decline and could cause the price of our common stock to decline further. Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels have recently increased in frequency, which could adversely affect our business. Acts of piracy have historically affected ocean-going vessels trading in regions of the world such as the South China Sea and in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. Throughout 2008 and 2009, the frequency of piracy incidents increased significantly, particularly in the Gulf of Aden. For example, in November 2008, the MV Sirius Star, a tanker vessel not affiliated with us, was captured by pirates in the Indian Ocean while carrying crude oil estimated to be worth $100 million. In February 2009, the vessel MV Saldanha, which is owned by our subsidiary, Team-Up Owning Company Limited, was seized by pirates while transporting coal through the Gulf of 8 Table of Contents Aden. If these piracy attacks result in regions (in which our vessels are deployed) being characterized by insurers as “war risk” zones, as the Gulf of Aden temporarily was in May 2008, or Joint War Committee (JWC) “war and strikes” listed areas, premiums payable for such insurance coverage could increase significantly and such insurance coverage may be more difficult to obtain. Crew costs, including those due to employing onboard security guards, could increase in such circumstances. In addition, while we believe the charterer remains liable for charter payments when a vessel is seized by pirates, the charterer may dispute this and withhold charter hire until the vessel is released. A charterer may also claim that a vessel seized by pirates was not “on-hire” for a certain number of days and it is therefore entitled to cancel the charter party, a claim that we would dispute. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, detention hijacking as a result of an act of piracy against our vessels, or an increase in cost, or unavailability of insurance for our vessels, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. World events could affect our results of operations and financial condition. Terrorist attacks such as those in New York on September 11, 2001 and in London on July 7, 2005 and in Mumbai in 2008 and the continuing response of the United States to these attacks, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks in the United States or elsewhere, continues to cause uncertainty in the world’s financial markets and may affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The continuing conflicts in Afghanistan and Iraq may lead to additional acts of terrorism and armed conflict around the world, which may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. These uncertainties could also adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. In the past, political conflicts have also resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Arabian Gulf region. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our operating results, revenues and costs. Terrorist attacks on vessels, such as the October 2002 attack on the VLCC Limburg, a vessel not related to us, may in the future also negatively affect our operations and financial condition and directly impact our vessels or our customers. Future terrorist attacks could result in increased volatility of the financial markets in the United States and globally and may impact the economic recession in the United States and other countries. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our revenues and costs. Our revenues are subject to seasonal fluctuations, which could affect our operating results and our ability to pay dividends, if any, in the future. We operate our vessels in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand and, as a result, in charter hire rates. This seasonality may result in quarter-to-quarter volatility in our operating results, which could affect our ability to pay dividends, if any, in the future from quarter to quarter. The drybulk carrier market is typically stronger in the fall and winter months in anticipation of increased consumption of coal and other raw materials in the northern hemisphere during the winter months. In addition, unpredictable weather patterns in these months tend to disrupt vessel scheduling and supplies of certain commodities. As a result, our revenues have historically been weaker during the fiscal quarters ended June 30 and September 30, and, conversely, our revenues have historically been stronger in fiscal quarters ended December 31 and March 31. This seasonality may adversely affect our operating results and our ability to pay dividends, if any, in the future. Rising fuel prices may adversely affect our profits. While we do not bear the cost of fuel or bunkers, under our time and bareboat charters, fuel is a significant, if not the largest, expense in our shipping operations when vessels are under spot charter. Changes in the price of fuel may adversely affect our profitability. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC, and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. Further, fuel may become much more expensive in the future, which may reduce the profitability and competitiveness of our business versus other forms of transportation, such as truck or rail. 9 Table of Contents We are subject to international safety regulations and the failure to comply with these regulations may subject us to increased liability, may adversely affect our insurance coverage and may result in our vessels being denied access to, or detained in, certain ports. Our business and the operation of our vessels are materially affected by government regulation in the form of international conventions, national, state and local laws and regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which the vessels operate, as well as in the country or countries of their registration. Because such conventions, laws, and regulations are often revised, we cannot predict the ultimate cost of complying with such conventions, laws and regulations or the impact thereof on the resale prices or useful lives of our vessels. Additional conventions, laws and regulations may be adopted which could limit our ability to do business or increase the cost of our doing business and which may materially adversely affect our operations. We are required by various governmental and quasi governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses, certificates, and financial assurances with respect to our operations. In addition, vessel classification societies also impose significant safety and other requirements on our vessels. In complying with current and future environmental requirements, vessel-owners and operators may also incur significant additional costs in meeting new maintenance and inspection requirements, in developing contingency arrangements for potential spills and in obtaining insurance coverage. Government regulation of vessels, particularly in the areas of safety and environmental requirements, can be expected to become stricter in the future and require us to incur significant capital expenditures on our vessels to keep them in compliance. The operation of our vessels is also affected by the requirements set forth in the United Nations’ International Maritime Organization’s, or IMO’s, International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and Pollution Prevention, or ISM Code. The ISM Code requires shipowners, ship managers and bareboat charterers to develop and maintain an extensive “Safety Management System” that includes the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for safe operation and describing procedures for dealing with emergencies. Each of the vessels that has been delivered to us is ISM Code-certified and we expect that any vessels that we acquire in the future will be ISM Code-certified when delivered to us. The failure of a shipowner or bareboat charterer to comply with the ISM Code may subject it to increased liability, may invalidate existing insurance or decrease available insurance coverage for the affected vessels and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. If we are subject to increased liability for non-compliance or if our insurance coverage is adversely impacted as a result of non-compliance, it may negatively affect our ability to pay dividends, if any, in the future. If any of our vessels are denied access to, or are detained in, certain ports, this may decrease our revenues. We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations in the form of international conventions and treaties, national, state and local laws and national and international regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which our vessels operate or are registered, which can significantly affect the ownership and operation of our vessels. These requirements include, but are not limited to, the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage of 1969, the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships of 1975, the International Convention for the Prevention of Marine Pollution of 1973, the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea of 1974, the International Convention on Load Lines of 1966, the U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, the U.S. Clean Air Act, U.S. Clean Water Act and the U.S. Marine Transportation Security Act of 2002. Compliance with such laws, regulations and standards, where applicable, may require installation of costly equipment or operational changes and may affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels. We may also incur additional costs in order to comply with other existing and future regulatory obligations, including, but not limited to, costs relating to air emissions, the management of ballast waters, maintenance and inspection, elimination of tin-based paint, development and implementation of emergency procedures and insurance coverage or other financial assurance of our ability to address pollution incidents. These costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. A failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of our operations. Environmental laws often impose strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances, which could subject us to liability without regard to whether we were negligent or at fault. Under OPA, for example, owners, operators and bareboat charterers are jointly and severally 10 Table of Contents strictly liable for the discharge of oil within the 200-mile exclusive economic zone around the United States. An oil spill could result in significant liability, including fines, penalties and criminal liability and remediation costs for natural resource damages under other federal, state and local laws, as well as third-party damages. We are required to satisfy insurance and financial responsibility requirements for potential oil (including marine fuel) spills and other pollution incidents. Although we have arranged insurance to cover certain environmental risks, such insurance may not be sufficient to cover all such risks. As a result, claims against us could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends, if any, in the future. Increased inspection procedures and tighter import and export controls could increase costs and disrupt our business. International shipping is subject to various security and customs inspections and related procedures in countries of origin, destination and trans-shipment points. Inspection procedures may result in the seizure of the contents of our vessels, delays in the loading, offloading or delivery of our vessels and the levying of customs duties, fines or other penalties against us. It is possible that changes to inspection procedures could impose additional financial and legal obligations on us. Changes to inspection procedures could also impose additional costs and obligations on our customers and may, in certain cases, render the shipment of certain types of cargo uneconomical or impractical. Any such changes or developments may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Maritime claimants could arrest one or more of our vessels, which could interrupt our cash flow. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a claimant may seek to obtain security for its claim by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our cash flow and require us to pay large sums of money to have the arrest or attachment lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the “sister ship” theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant’s maritime lien and any “associated” vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could attempt to assert “sister ship” liability against a vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another of our vessels. Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency, resulting in a loss of earnings. A government could requisition one or more of our vessels for title or for hire. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes her owner, while requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes her charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during periods of war or emergency, although governments may elect to requisition vessels in other circumstances. Although we would be entitled to compensation in the event of a requisition of one or more of our vessels, the amount and timing of payment would be uncertain. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels may negatively impact our revenues and reduce the amount of dividends, if any, in the future. In the highly competitive international shipping industry, we may not be able to compete for charters with new entrants or established companies with greater resources and as a result, we may be unable to employ our vessels profitably. We employ our vessels in a highly competitive market that is capital intensive and highly fragmented. Competition arises primarily from other vessel owners, some of whom have substantially greater resources than we do. Competition for the transportation of drybulk cargo by sea is intense and depends on price, location, size, age, condition and the acceptability of the vessel and its operators to the charterers. Due in part to the highly fragmented market, competitors with greater resources could enter the drybulk shipping industry and operate larger fleets through consolidations or acquisitions and may be able to offer lower charter rates and higher quality vessels than we are able to offer. If we are unable to successfully compete with other drybulk shipping companies, this would have an adverse impact on our results of operations. 11 Table of Contents Risks associated with operating ocean-going vessels could affect our business and reputation, which could adversely affect our revenues and stock price. The operation of ocean-going vessels carries inherent risks. These risks include the possibility of: • marine disaster; • environmental accidents; • cargo and property losses or damage; • business interruptions caused by mechanical failure, human error, war, terrorism, political action in various countries, labor strikes or adverse weather conditions; and • piracy. The involvement of our vessels in an environmental disaster may harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator. Any of these circumstances or events could increase our costs or lower our revenues. The shipping industry has inherent operational risks that may not be adequately covered by our insurance. We procure insurance for our fleet against risks commonly insured against by vessel owners and operators. Our current insurance includes hull and machinery insurance, war risks insurance and protection and indemnity insurance (which includes environmental damage and pollution insurance). We may not be adequately insured against all risks or our insurers may not pay a particular claim. Even if our insurance coverage is adequate to cover our losses, we may not be able to timely obtain a replacement vessel in the event of a loss. Furthermore, in the future, we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates for our fleet. We may also be subject to calls, or premiums, in amounts based not only on our own claim records but also the claim records of all other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive indemnity insurance coverage for tort liability. Our insurance policies also contain deductibles, limitations and exclusions which, although we believe are standard in the shipping industry, may nevertheless increase our costs. The operation of drybulk carriers has certain unique operational risks. The operation of certain ship types, such as drybulk carriers, has certain unique risks. With a drybulk carrier, the cargo itself and its interaction with the ship can be a risk factor. By their nature, drybulk cargoes are often heavy, dense, easily shifted, and react badly to water exposure. In addition, drybulk carriers are often subjected to battering treatment during unloading operations with grabs, jackhammers (to pry encrusted cargoes out of the hold), and small bulldozers. This treatment may cause damage to the vessel. Vessels damaged due to treatment during unloading procedures may be more susceptible to breach to the sea. Hull breaches in drybulk carriers may lead to the flooding of the vessels holds. If a drybulk carrier suffers flooding in its forward holds, the bulk cargo may become so dense and waterlogged that its pressure may buckle the vessel’s bulkheads, leading to the loss of a vessel. If we are unable to adequately maintain our vessels we may be unable to prevent these events. Any of these circumstances or events could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends, if any, in the future. In addition, the loss of any of our vessels could harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator. 12 Table of Contents Offshore Drilling Industry—Specific Risk Factors Our business in the offshore drilling sector depends on the level of activity in the offshore oil and gas industry, which is significantly affected by, among other things, volatile oil and gas prices and may be materially and adversely affected by a decline in the offshore oil and gas industry. The offshore contract drilling industry is cyclical and volatile. Our business in the offshore drilling sector depends on the level of activity in oil and gas exploration, development and production in offshore areas worldwide. The availability of quality drilling prospects, exploration success, relative production costs, the stage of reservoir development and political and regulatory environments affect customers’ drilling campaigns. Oil and gas prices and market expectations of potential changes in these prices also significantly affect this level of activity and demand for drilling units. Oil and gas prices are extremely volatile and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including the following: • worldwide production and demand for oil and gas; • the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and gas; • expectations regarding future energy prices; • advances in exploration, development and production technology; • the ability of OPEC to set and maintain levels and pricing; • the level of production in non-OPEC countries; • government regulations; • local and international political, economic and weather conditions; • domestic and foreign tax policies; • development and exploitation of alternative fuels; • the policies of various governments regarding exploration and development of their oil and gas reserves; and • the worldwide military and political environment, including uncertainty or instability resulting from an escalation or additional outbreak of armed hostilities or other crises in the Middle East or other geographic areas or further acts of terrorism in the United States, or elsewhere. Declines in oil and gas prices for an extended period of time, or market expectations of potential decreases in these prices, could negatively affect our business in the offshore drilling sector. Sustained periods of low oil prices typically result in reduced exploration and drilling because oil and gas companies’ capital expenditure budgets are subject to their cash flow and are therefore sensitive to changes in energy prices. These changes in commodity prices can have a dramatic effect on rig demand, and periods of low demand can cause excess rig supply and intensify the competition in the industry which often results in drilling units, particularly lower specification drilling units, being idle for long periods of time. We cannot predict the future level of demand for our services or future conditions of the oil and gas industry. Any decrease in exploration, development or production expenditures by oil and gas companies could reduce our revenues and materially harm our business and results of operations. In addition to oil and gas prices, the offshore drilling industry is influenced by additional factors, including: • the availability of competing offshore drilling vessels; 13 Table of Contents • the level of costs for associated offshore oilfield and construction services; • oil and gas transportation costs; • the discovery of new oil and gas reserves; and • the cost of non-conventional hydrocarbons, such as the exploitation of oil sands. The offshore drilling industry is highly competitive and there is intense price competition, and as a result, we may be unable to compete successfully with other providers of contract drilling services that have greater resources than we have. The offshore contract drilling industry is highly competitive with numerous industry participants, none of which has a dominant market share, and characterized by high capital and maintenance requirements. Drilling contracts are traditionally awarded on a competitive bid basis. Intense price competition is often the primary factor in determining which qualified contractor is awarded the drilling contract, although rig availability, location, and the quality and technical capability of service and equipment are key factors which are considered. Some of our competitors in the drilling industry are larger than we are and have more diverse fleets, or fleets with generally higher specifications, and greater financial and other resources than us. In addition, because of the relatively small size of our offshore drilling segment, we may be unable to take advantage of economies of scale to the same extent as some of our larger competitors. Given the high capital requirements that are inherent in the offshore drilling industry, we may also be unable to invest in new technologies or expand our fleet in the future as may be necessary for us to succeed in this industry, while our larger competitors with superior financial resources may be able to respond more rapidly to changing market demands and compete more efficiently on price for drillship and drilling rig employment. In addition, mergers among oil and natural gas exploration and production companies have reduced the number of available customers, resulting in increased competition for projects. We may not be able to maintain our competitive position, and we believe that competition for contracts will continue to be intense in the foreseeable future. Our inability to compete successfully may reduce our revenues and profitability. An over-supply of drilling units may lead to a reduction in day-rates and therefore may materially impact our profitability in our offshore drilling segment. During the recent period of high utilization and high day-rates, industry participants have increased the supply of drilling units by ordering the construction of new drilling units. Historically, this has resulted in an over-supply of drilling units and has caused a subsequent decline in utilization and day-rates when the drilling units enter the market, sometimes for extended periods of time until the units have been absorbed into the active fleet. According to industry sources, the worldwide fleet of ultra-deepwater drilling units as of March 20, 2010 consisted of 57 units, comprised of 33 semi-submersible rigs and 24 drillships. An additional 26 semi-submersible rigs and 35 drillships are under construction or on order as of March 10, 2010, which would bring the total fleet to 118 drilling units by the end of 2012. A relatively large number of the drilling units currently under construction have been contracted for future work, which may intensify price competition as scheduled delivery dates occur. The entry into service of these new, upgraded or reactivated drilling units will increase supply and has already led to a reduction in day-rates as drilling units are absorbed into the active fleet. In addition, the new construction of high-specification rigs, as well as changes in our competitors’ drilling rig fleets, could require us to make material additional capital investments to keep our fleet competitive. Lower utilization and day-rates could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Prolonged periods of low utilization and day-rates could also result in the recognition of impairment charges on our drilling units if future cash flow estimates, based upon information available to management at the time, indicate that the carrying value of these drilling units may not be recoverable. The market value of our current drilling units and drilling units we may acquire in the future may decrease, which could cause us to incur losses if we decide to sell them following a decline in their market values. If the offshore contract drilling industry suffers adverse developments in the future, the fair market value of our drilling units may decline. The fair market value of the drilling units we currently own or may acquire in the future may increase or decrease depending on a number of factors, including: • prevailing level of drilling services contract day-rates; 14 Table of Contents • general economic and market conditions affecting the offshore contract drilling industry, including competition from other offshore contract drilling companies; • types, sizes and ages of drilling units; • supply and demand for drilling units; • costs of newbuildings; • governmental or other regulations; and • technological advances. If we sell any drilling unit when drilling unit prices have fallen and before we have recorded an impairment adjustment to our financial statements, the sale may be at less than the drilling unit’s carrying amount on our financial statements, resulting in a loss. Additionally, our lenders may accelerate loan repayments should there be a loss in the market value of our drilling units. Such loss or repayment could materially and adversely affect our business prospects, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations, and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. Consolidation of suppliers may limit our ability to obtain supplies and services at an acceptable cost, on our schedule or at all, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We rely on certain third parties to provide supplies and services necessary for our offshore drilling operations, including but not limited to drilling equipment suppliers, catering and machinery suppliers. Recent mergers have reduced the number of available suppliers, resulting in fewer alternatives for sourcing key supplies. We may not be able to obtain supplies and services at an acceptable cost, at the times we need them or at all. Such consolidation, combined with a high volume of drilling units under construction, may result in a shortage of supplies and services thereby potentially inhibiting the ability of suppliers to deliver on time. These cost increases or delays could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our international operations in the offshore drilling sector involve additional risks. We operate in the offshore drilling sector in various regions throughout the world, including Ghana that may expose us to political and other uncertainties, including risks of: • terrorist acts, piracy, war and civil disturbances; • seizure, nationalization or expropriation of property or equipment; • repudiation, nullification, indemnification or reregulation of contracts; • limitations on insurance coverage, such as war risk coverage, in certain areas; • political unrest; • foreign and U.S. monetary policy and foreign currency fluctuations and devaluations; • the inability to repatriate income or capital; • complications associated with repairing and replacing equipment in remote locations; • import-export quotas, wage and price controls, imposition of trade barriers and other forms of government regulation and economic conditions that are beyond our control; 15 Table of Contents • regulatory or financial requirements to comply with foreign bureaucratic actions; and • changing taxation policies. In addition, international contract drilling operations are subject to various laws and regulations in countries in which we operate, including laws and regulations relating to: • use and compensation of local employees and suppliers by foreign contractors. • taxation of offshore earnings and earnings of expatriate personnel; • oil and gas exploration and development; • repatriation of foreign earnings; and • the equipping and operation of drilling units. One of our two existing drilling rigs is currently operating offshore Ghana and the other drilling rig is operating in the Black Sea. In the past we have operated our drilling rig the Eirik Raude in the Gulf of Mexico, offshore Canada, and Norway while the drilling rig Leiv Eiriksson has operated offshore in West Africa and in the North Sea. Some foreign governments favor or effectively require the awarding of drilling contracts to local contractors, require use of a local agent or require foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. These practices may adversely affect our ability to compete in those regions. It is difficult to predict what governmental regulations may be enacted in the future that could adversely affect the international drilling industry. The actions of foreign governments, including initiatives by OPEC, may adversely affect our ability to compete. We are indemnified to some extent against loss of capital assets, but generally not loss of revenue, from most of these risks through provisions in our drilling contracts. Governmental laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, may add to our costs or limit our drilling activity. Our business in the offshore drilling industry is affected by public policy and laws and regulations relating to the energy industry and the environment in the geographic areas where we operate. The offshore drilling industry is dependent on demand for services from the oil and gas exploration and production industry, and accordingly, we are directly affected by the adoption of laws and regulations that for economic, environmental or other policy reasons curtail exploration and development drilling for oil and gas. We may be required to make significant capital expenditures to comply with governmental laws and regulations. It is also possible that these laws and regulations may in the future add significantly to our operating costs or significantly limit drilling activity. Governments in some countries are increasingly active in regulating and controlling the ownership of concessions while favoring local contractors, the exploration for oil and gas, and other aspects of the oil and gas industries. In recent years, increased concern has been raised over protection of the environment. Offshore drilling in certain areas has been opposed by environmental groups, and has in certain cases been restricted. To the extent new laws are enacted or other governmental actions are taken that prohibit or restrict offshore drilling or impose additional environmental protection requirements that result in increased costs to the oil and gas industry in general or the offshore drilling industry in particular, our business or prospects could be materially adversely affected. The operation of our drilling units will require certain governmental approvals, the number and prerequisites of which cannot be determined until we identify the jurisdictions in which we will operate upon securing contracts for the drilling units. Depending on the jurisdiction, these governmental approvals may involve public hearings and costly undertakings on our part. We may not obtain such approvals or such approvals may not be obtained in a timely manner. If we fail to timely secure the necessary approvals or permits, our customers may have the right to terminate or seek to renegotiate their drilling contracts to our detriment. The amendment or 16 Table of Contents modification of existing laws and regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations curtailing or further regulating exploratory or development drilling and production of oil and gas could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Future earnings may be negatively affected by compliance with any such new legislation or regulations. In addition, we may become subject to additional laws and regulations as a result of future rig operations or repositioning. We may be subject to liability under environmental laws and regulations, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our operations in the offshore drilling industry may involve the use or handling of materials that may be classified as environmentally hazardous substances. Environmental laws and regulations applicable in the countries in which we conduct operations have generally become more stringent. Such laws and regulations may expose us to liability for the conduct of or for conditions caused by others, or for our acts that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time such actions were taken. During our drilling operations in the past, we have caused the release of oil, waste and other pollutants into the sea and into protected areas, such as the Barents Sea. While we conduct maintenance on our drilling rigs in an effort to prevent such releases, future releases could occur, especially as our rigs age. Such releases may be large in quantity, above our permitted limits or in protected or other areas in which public interest groups or governmental authorities have an interest. These releases could result in fines and other costs to us, such as costs to upgrade our drilling rigs, costs to clean up the pollution, and costs to comply with more stringent requirements in our discharge permits. Moreover, these releases may result in our customers or governmental authorities suspending or terminating our operations in the affected area, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. We expect that we will be able to obtain some degree of contractual indemnification from our customers in most of our drilling contracts against pollution and environmental damages. But such indemnification may not be enforceable in all instances, the customer may not be financially capable in all cases of complying with its indemnity obligations and we may not be able to obtain such indemnification agreements in the future. We currently maintain insurance coverage against certain environmental liabilities, including pollution caused by sudden and accidental oil spills. However, such insurance may not continue to be available or carried by us or, if available and carried, may not be adequate to cover any liability in all circumstances, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Acts of terrorism and political and social unrest could affect the markets for drilling services, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Acts of terrorism and political and social unrest, brought about by world political events or otherwise, have caused instability in the world’s financial and insurance markets in the past and may occur in the future. Such acts could be directed against companies such as ours. Our drilling operations could also be targeted by acts of piracy. In addition, acts of terrorism and social unrest could lead to increased volatility in prices for crude oil and natural gas and could affect the markets for drilling services and result in lower day-rates. Insurance premiums could increase and coverage may be unavailable in the future. U.S. government regulations may effectively preclude us from actively engaging in business activities in certain countries. These regulations could be amended to cover countries where we currently operate or where we may wish to operate in the future. Increased insurance costs or increased cost of compliance with applicable regulations may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Company Specific Risk Factors We are in breach of certain financial covenants contained in our loan agreements, have obtained waivers from certain of our lenders regarding these covenant breaches, and are currently in discussions with our lenders for additional waivers, extensions of existing waivers and amendments of such financial covenants, and if we are not successful in obtaining such waivers and amendments, our lenders may declare an event of default and accelerate our outstanding indebtedness under the relevant agreement, which would impact our ability to continue to conduct our business. Our credit facilities, which are secured by mortgages on our vessels, require us to comply with specified collateral coverage ratios and satisfy certain financial and other covenants. The current low drybulk charter rates and drybulk vessel values, and even lower rates and values experienced over the past year, have affected our ability to comply with these covenants. 17 Table of Contents The current low drybulk charter rates and drybulk vessel values have affected our ability to comply with certain financial and other covenants. A violation of these covenants constitutes an event of default under our credit facilities, which, unless waived by our lenders, provides our lenders with the right to require us to post additional collateral, enhance our equity and liquidity, increase our interest payments, pay down our indebtedness to a level where we are in compliance with our loan covenants, sell vessels in our fleet, reclassify our indebtedness as current liabilities and accelerate our indebtedness and foreclose their liens on our vessels, which would impair our ability to continue to conduct our business. As of December 31, 2008, we were in breach of certain financial covenants including the value maintenance clause, contained in our secured loan facilities. During 2009, we obtained waivers from all the lenders of the affected debt, which waivers expire between midnight on December 31, 2009 and October 31, 2011. We are currently in discussions with lenders to extend the waiver period for those waivers that have already expired or will expire later in 2010. In addition, on December 31, 2009, we were in breach of a financial covenant in our $230 million loan facilities dated September 10, 2007, as amended. We are in discussions with our lenders regarding a resolution. There can be no assurance that our lenders will grant us waivers for the covenant breaches for which we do not currently have waivers. Accordingly, our lenders could accelerate our indebtedness and foreclose their liens on our vessels, which would impair our ability to conduct our business and continue as a going concern. In addition, there can be no assurance that the lenders under our other secured loan agreements will extend the waivers of covenant breaches thereunder, if we are not in compliance with the covenants as such waivers expire, with the same potential consequences. For further discussion, please see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Breach of Loan Covenants.” Because of the presence of cross default provisions in all of our loan agreements, the refusal of any one lender to grant or extend a waiver could result in all of our indebtedness being accelerated even if our other lenders have waived covenant defaults under the respective loan agreements. A cross default provision means that if we default on one loan we would then default on all of our other loans. If our indebtedness is accelerated, it would be very difficult in the current financing environment for us to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing and we could lose our vessels if our lenders foreclose their liens. In addition, if the fair value of our vessels, which is calculated using undiscounted cash flows, deteriorates significantly from their currently depressed levels, we may have to record a further impairment adjustment to our financial statements, which would adversely affect our financial results and further hinder our ability to raise capital. Further, as discussed below, our independent registered public accounting firms have issued their opinions with an explanatory paragraph in connection with our audited financial statements included in this report that expresses substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Moreover, in connection with any waivers and/or amendments to our loan agreements, our lenders may impose additional operating and financial restrictions on us and/or modify the terms of our existing loan agreements. These restrictions may limit our ability to, among other things, pay dividends, make capital expenditures and/or incur additional indebtedness, including through the issuance of guarantees. In addition, our lenders may require the payment of additional fees, require prepayment of a portion of our indebtedness to them, accelerate the amortization schedule for our indebtedness and increase the interest rates they charge us on our outstanding indebtedness. 18 Table of Contents Our inability to comply with certain financial and other covenants under our loan agreements raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. As discussed above, we were in breach of certain financial and other covenants contained in our loan agreements as a result of the decline in the drybulk charter market and related decline in vessel values in the drybulk sector and have obtained waivers which expire in 2010 and 2011. When the waivers expire we may be unable to meet the financial and other covenants contained in our loan agreements for the foreseeable future and our lenders may choose to accelerate our indebtedness. Therefore, our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent on management’s ability to successfully generate revenue and to meet our obligations as they become due and the continued support of our lenders. In 2009, we have issued a total of 165,054,595 common shares pursuant to our two at the market offerings under our ATM Equity Offering™ Sales Agreements, dated January 28, 2009 and May 7, 2009 by and between the Company and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated as our agent for the sale of up to $500 million and $475 million of our common shares, respectively, resulting in net proceeds of $952.4 million. In 2009, the Company also offered $460 million aggregate principal amount of our 5% Convertible Senior Notes due December 1, 2014, resulting in net proceeds of $447.8 million. Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued its opinion with an explanatory paragraph in connection with our financial statements included in this annual report that expresses substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments to reflect the possible future effects on the recoverability and classification of assets or the amounts and classification of liabilities that may result from the outcome of our inability to continue as a going concern. However, there is a material uncertainty related to events or conditions which raises significant doubt on our ability to continue as a going concern and, therefore, we may be unable to realize our assets and discharge our liabilities in the normal course of business. As a result of our inability to comply with certain financial and other covenants under our loan agreements a significant amount of our indebtedness was reclassified as current liabilities as of December 31, 2009. A total of $1.3 billion of our indebtedness as of December 31, 2009 has been reclassified as current liabilities as a result of our non-compliance with financial covenants contained in our loan agreements. As a result of this reclassification we had a working capital deficit of $715.4 million as of December 31, 2009. Consequently, our independent registered public accounting firms included an explanatory paragraph in their respective opinions on our most recently audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2009 that expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Charter rates and vessel values, particularly in the drybulk sector, may remain at low levels for an extended period of time, in which case it may be difficult for us to comply with the financial and other covenants in our loan agreements absent extensions of the existing waivers. Our credit facilities and waivers impose operating and financial restrictions on us, and if we receive additional waivers and/or amendments to our loan agreements, our lenders may impose additional operating and financial restrictions on us and/or modify the terms of our existing loan agreements. In addition to certain financial covenants relating to our financial position, operating performance and liquidity, the restrictions contained in our loan agreements limit our ability to, among other things: • pay dividends to investors or make capital expenditures if we do not repay amounts drawn under the credit facilities, if there is a default under the credit facilities or if the payment of the dividend or capital expenditure would result in a default or breach of a loan covenant; • incur additional indebtedness, including through the issuance of guarantees; • change the flag, class or management of our vessels; • create liens on our assets; • sell or otherwise change the ownership of our vessels; • merge or consolidate with, or transfer all or substantially all our assets to, another person; • drop below certain minimum cash deposits, as defined in our credit facilities; and/or • receive dividends from certain subsidiaries. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Breach of Loan Covenants.” In connection with future waivers or amendments, lenders may impose additional restrictions on us. 19 Table of Contents Therefore, we may need to seek permission from our lenders in order to engage in some corporate actions. Our lenders’ interests may be different from ours and we may not be able to obtain our lenders’ permission when needed. In addition to the above restrictions, our lenders may require the payment of additional fees, require prepayment of a portion of our indebtedness to them, accelerate the amortization schedule for our indebtedness and increase the interest rates they charge us on our outstanding indebtedness. These potential restrictions and requirements may limit our ability to pay dividends, if any, in the future, to you, finance our future operations, make acquisitions or pursue business opportunities. The failure of our counterparties to meet their obligations under our time charter agreements could cause us to suffer losses or otherwise adversely affect our business. Thirty-five of our drybulk vessels are currently employed under time charters, two of our drybulk vessels are currently employed on bareboat charters and our two drill rigs are under contracts for two and three years. The ability and willingness of each of our counterparties to perform its obligations under a time charter agreement with us will depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control and may include, among other things, general economic conditions, the condition of the drybulk shipping industry and the overall financial condition of the counterparties. In addition, in challenging market conditions, there have been reports of charterers, including some of our charterers, renegotiating their charters or defaulting on their obligations under charters and our customers may fail to pay charterhire or attempt to renegotiate charter rates. The time charters on which we deploy 21 of the vessels in our fleet provide for charter rates that are significantly above current market rates. Should a counterparty fail to honor its obligations under agreements with us, it may be difficult to secure substitute employment for such vessel, and any new charter arrangements we secure in the spot market or on time charters would be at lower rates given currently decreased charter rate levels, particularly in the drybulk carrier market. If our charterers fail to meet their obligations to us or attempt to renegotiate our charter agreements, we could sustain significant losses which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as well as our ability to pay dividends, if any, in the future, and comply with covenants in our credit facilities. We are subject to certain risks with respect to our counterparties on drilling contracts, and failure of such counterparties to meet their obligations could cause us to suffer losses or otherwise adversely affect our business. In addition to time charters, we enter into drilling services contracts with our customers, newbuilding contracts with shipyards, interest rate swap agreements and forward exchange contracts, and have employed and may employ our drilling rigs and newbuild drillships on fixed-term and well contracts. Our drilling contracts, newbuilding contracts, and hedging agreements subject us to counterparty risks. The ability of each of our counterparties to perform its obligations under a contract with us will depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control and may include, among other things, general economic conditions, the condition of the offshore contract drilling industry, the overall financial condition of the counterparty, the day-rates received for specific types of drilling rigs and drillships and various expenses. In addition, in depressed market conditions, our customers may no longer need a drilling unit that is currently under contract or may be able to obtain a comparable drilling unit at a 20 Table of Contents lower day-rate. As a result, customers may seek to renegotiate the terms of their existing drilling contracts or avoid their obligations under those contracts. Should a counterparty fail to honor its obligations under an agreement with us, we could sustain significant losses which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have significant indebtedness and payment obligations relating to four drillships under construction for Ocean Rig UDW. Our subsidiary, Ocean Rig UDW, has contracts for construction of the four drillships, Hulls 1837, 1838, 1865 and 1866, scheduled to be delivered in December 2010, March 2011, July 2011 and September 2011, respectively. As of December 31, 2009, we owe an additional $1.0 billion in installment payments due within the next year and $0.9 billion of newbuilding installment payments due thereafter. We have entered into two separate credit facilities, each in the amount of $562.5 million, to finance the installment payments to Hulls 1865 and 1866. This indebtedness is in addition to the indebtedness we have incurred and will incur to finance our drybulk fleet and its operations, may adversely affect our ability to comply with our loan covenants and service our indebtedness and would adversely impact our profitability and cash flows. Our lenders are not required to fund certain drawdowns by us under these loan agreements and we would be required to repay all outstanding amounts in the event we do not obtain employment contracts by the earlier of April 30, 2011 or the delivery of the applicable drillship for these drillships at specified minimum day rates with charterers that are satisfactory to such lenders. If for any reason we fail to take delivery of the four newbuilding drillships, we would be prevented from realizing potential revenues from these projects and could also lose our deposit money, which as of December 31, 2009 amounted to $920.6 million, and we may incur additional liability and costs. No financing has been arranged for the construction of our two newbuilding drillships, Hulls 1837 and 1838. Ocean Rig UDW owns the equity interests of DrillShips Holdings Inc., or DrillShips Holdings, which owns contracts for the construction of two drillships, identified as Hull 1837 and Hull 1838, scheduled to be delivered in December 2010 and March 2011, respectively. The expected cost of construction is approximately $800 million per unit. As of December 31, 2009, $557.8 million was capitalized as construction-related expenses for these hulls, which was financed by $230.0 million in debt and $327.8 million in equity contributions. In connection with the acquisition of these drillships, we have assumed construction-related payment obligations totaling approximately $873 million as of December 31, 2009. We have not yet obtained financing for these construction-related payment obligations due during 2010 and 2011 for Hulls 1837 and 1838, which amounts to approximately 54% of the expected cost of construction of these drillships. In the current challenging financing environment, it may be difficult to obtain secured debt to finance these purchases or raise debt or equity in the capital markets. If we fail to secure financing for the two newbuilding drillships, Hulls 1837 and 1838, we could also lose our deposit money, which as of December 31, 2009 amounted to $508.7 million, and we may incur additional liability and costs. Construction of drillships is subject to risks, including delays and cost overruns, which could have an adverse impact on our available cash resources and results of operations. We, through our subsidiaries, have entered into contracts with Samsung Heavy Industries Co. Ltd., or Samsung Heavy Industries, for the construction of four ultra-deepwater newbuilding drillships, which we expect to take delivery of in the fourth quarter of 2010 and the first, second and third quarter of 2011. We may also undertake new construction projects and conversion projects in the future. In addition, we make significant upgrade, refurbishment, conversion and repair expenditures for our fleet from time to time, particularly as our drilling units become older. Some of these expenditures are unplanned. These projects and other efforts of this type are subject to risks of cost overruns or delays inherent in any large construction project as a result of numerous factors, including the following: • shipyard unavailability; • shortages of equipment, materials or skilled labor; • unscheduled delays in the delivery of ordered materials and equipment; • local customs strikes or related work slowdowns that could delay importation of equipment or materials; 21 Table of Contents • engineering problems, including those relating to the commissioning of newly designed equipment; • latent damages or deterioration to the hull, equipment and machinery in excess of engineering estimates and assumptions; • work stoppages; • client acceptance delays; • weather interference or storm damage; • disputes with shipyards and suppliers; • shipyard failures and difficulties; • failure or delay of third-party equipment vendors or service providers; • unanticipated cost increases; and • difficulty in obtaining necessary permits or approvals or in meeting permit or approval conditions. These factors may contribute to cost variations and delays in the delivery of our ultra-deepwater newbuilding drillships. Delays in the delivery of these newbuilding drillships or the inability to complete construction in accordance with their design specifications may, in some circumstances, result in a delay in contract commencement, resulting in a loss of revenue to us, and may also cause customers to renegotiate, terminate or shorten the term of a drilling contract for the drillship pursuant to applicable late delivery clauses. In the event of termination of one of these contracts, we may not be able to secure a replacement contract on as favorable terms. Additionally, capital expenditures for drillship upgrades, refurbishment and construction projects could materially exceed our planned capital expenditures. Moreover, our drillships that may undergo upgrade, refurbishment and repair may not earn a day-rate during the periods they are out of service. In addition, in the event of a shipyard failure or other difficulty, we may be unable to enforce certain provisions under our newbuilding contracts such as our refund guarantee, to recover amounts paid as installments under such contracts. The occurrence of any of these events may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Purchasing and operating secondhand vessels may result in increased operating costs and reduced fleet utilization. While we have the right to inspect previously owned vessels prior to our purchase of them and we intend to inspect all secondhand vessels that we acquire in the future, such an inspection does not provide us with the same knowledge about their condition that we would have if these vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us. A secondhand vessel may have conditions or defects that we were not aware of when we bought the vessel and which may require us to incur costly repairs to the vessel. These repairs may require us to put a vessel into dry dock which would reduce our fleet utilization. Furthermore, we usually do not receive the benefit of warranties on secondhand vessels. New technologies may cause our current drilling methods to become obsolete, resulting in an adverse effect on our business. The offshore contract drilling industry is subject to the introduction of new drilling techniques and services using new technologies, some of which may be subject to patent protection. As competitors and others use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage and competitive pressures may force us to implement new technologies at substantial cost. Although we purchased the right to use the Bingo 9000 design, or the Bingo Design, for our drilling rigs, neither we nor the company from which we purchased those rights has obtained or applied for any patents or other intellectual property protection relating to the Bingo Design. As a result, 22 Table of Contents other parties may challenge our right to use the Bingo Design or seek damages for the alleged infringement of intellectual property rights that they may claim to own. We may also lose the competitive advantage that we sought to achieve through the use of the Bingo Design if our competitors duplicate key aspects of the Bingo Design without our permission, and we may be unable to prevent our competitors from doing so. We do not yet have employment contracts for our four newbuilding drillships and decreases in the price of crude oil may affect our ability to charter these drillships and the revenues that we are able to earn from our drilling rigs. Changes in crude oil prices often affect oil exploration and drilling activities that, in turn, drive changes in the contract rates for oil drilling equipment, such as deep sea oil rigs and drillships, or, possibly, cause the suspension of exploration and drilling programs. Such changes and any such suspension could affect the rates which we receive for any rigs when their contracts expire, with the result that we would recognize less revenue from their operations. We have not yet secured employment contracts for any of the four newbuilding drillships. If the price of crude oil were to again fall to depressed levels, we may not be able to negotiate charter agreements for Hulls 1837, 1838, 1865 or 1866 at attractive rates or at all. On April 8, 2009, we entered into a three-year contract with Petróleo Brasileiro for the employment of the Leiv Eiriksson for exploration drilling in the Black Sea at a day-rate maximum of $583,000, including an 8% bonus based on operational performance. The contract commenced on October 27, 2009. As of December 31, 2009, the contract for the Eirik Raude was amended to an average day-rate of $639,000 per day assuming 100% utilization, effective until the expiration of the contract in October 2011. Our earnings may be adversely affected if we are not able to take advantage of favorable charter rates. We charter our drybulk carriers to customers primarily pursuant to long-term or short-term time charters, which generally last from several days to several weeks, and long-term time charters, which can last up to several years. As of April 6, 2010, 35 of our drybulk vessels were employed under time charters with an average duration of three years. We may in the future extend the charter periods for additional vessels in our fleet. Our vessels that are committed to longer-term charters may not be available for employment on short-term charters during periods of increasing short-term charter hire rates when these charters may be more profitable than long-term charters. We may expand into the oil tanker, product tanker or container shipping sectors, which are currently at depressed levels and could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. We may expand into the oil tanker, product tanker or container shipping sectors if attractive vessel acquisition opportunities arise. The charter markets for crude oil carriers and product tankers have deteriorated significantly since summer 2008 and are currently at depressed levels. These markets may be further depressed in 2010 given the significant number of newbuilding vessels scheduled to be delivered that year. Attractive investment opportunities in these sectors may reflect these depressed conditions, however, the return on any such investment would be highly uncertain in this extremely challenging operating environment. Our company has not previously operated vessels in these sectors, which are intensely competitive, have unique operational risks and are highly dependent on the availability of and demand for crude oil and petroleum products as well as being significantly impacted by the availability of modern tanker capacity and the scrapping, conversion or loss of older vessels. An inability to successfully execute any expansion into these sectors could be costly, distract us from our drybulk and drill rig business and divert management resources, each of which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. Our board of directors has determined to suspend the payment of cash dividends as a result of market conditions in the international shipping industry, and until such market conditions improve, it is unlikely that we will reinstate the payment of dividends. In light of a lower freight rate environment and a highly challenged financing environment, our board of directors, beginning with the fourth quarter of 2008, has suspended our common share dividend. Our dividend policy will be assessed by the board of directors from time to time. The suspension allows us to preserve capital and 23 Table of Contents use the preserved capital to capitalize on market opportunities as they may arise. Until market conditions improve, it is unlikely that we will reinstate the payment of dividends. In addition, other external factors, such as our lenders imposing restrictions on our ability to pay dividends under the terms of our loan agreements, may limit our ability to pay dividends. Further, we may not be permitted to pay dividends if we are in breach of the covenants contained in our loan agreements. The waivers of our non-compliance with the covenants in our loan agreements that we received from our lenders prohibit us from paying dividends. Investment in derivative instruments such as freight forward agreements could result in losses. From time to time, we may take positions in derivative instruments including freight forward agreements, or FFAs. FFAs and other derivative instruments may be used to hedge a vessel owner’s exposure to the charter market by providing for the sale of a contracted charter rate along a specified route and period of time. Upon settlement, if the contracted charter rate is less than the average of the rates, as reported by an identified index, for the specified route and period, the seller of the FFA is required to pay the buyer an amount equal to the difference between the contracted rate and the settlement rate, multiplied by the number of days in the specified period. Conversely, if the contracted rate is greater than the settlement rate, the buyer is required to pay the seller the settlement sum. If we take positions in FFAs or other derivative instruments and do not correctly anticipate charter rate movements over the specified route and time period, we could suffer losses in the settling or termination of the FFA. This could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. The derivative contracts we have entered into to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates could result in higher than market interest rates and charges against our income. We have entered into 34 interest rate swaps for purposes of managing our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates applicable to indebtedness under our credit facilities, which were advanced at a floating rate based on LIBOR. Our hedging strategies, however, may not be effective and we may incur substantial losses if interest rates move materially differently from our expectations. Some of our existing interest rate swaps do not, and future derivative contracts may not, qualify for treatment as hedges for accounting purposes. We recognize fluctuations in the fair value of these contracts in our statement of operations. In addition, our financial condition could be materially adversely affected to the extent we do not hedge our exposure to interest rate fluctuations under our financing arrangements, under which loans have been advanced at a floating rate based on LIBOR and for which we have not entered into an interest rate swap or other hedging arrangement. Any hedging activities we engage in may not effectively manage our interest rate exposure or have the desired impact on our financial conditions or results of operations. At December 31, 2009, the fair value of our interest rate swaps was a liability of $168.9 million. We depend entirely on Cardiff to manage and charter our drybulk fleet. With respect to our operations in the drybulk shipping sector, we currently have five employees, our Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Operating Officer, our Chief Financial Officer, our Senior Vice President Head of Accounting and Reporting and our Internal Auditor. We subcontract the commercial and technical management of our drybulk fleet, including crewing, maintenance and repair to Cardiff Marine Inc. 70% of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Cardiff is owned by a foundation which is controlled by George Economou, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and a director of our Company. The remaining 30% of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Cardiff is owned by a company controlled by the sister of Mr. Economou, who is also a director of our Company. The loss of Cardiff’s services or its failure to perform its obligations to us could materially and adversely affect the results of our operations. Although we may have rights against Cardiff if it defaults on its obligations to us, you will have no recourse against Cardiff. Further, we are required to seek approval from our lenders to change our manager. Cardiff is a privately held company and there is little or no publicly available information about it. The ability of Cardiff to continue providing services for our benefit will depend in part on its own financial strength. Circumstances beyond our control could impair Cardiff’s financial strength, and because it is privately held it is unlikely that information about its financial strength would become public unless Cardiff began to default on its obligations. As a result, an investor in our shares might have little advance warning of problems affecting Cardiff, even though these problems could have a material adverse effect on us. 24 Table of Contents We are dependent upon key management personnel, particularly our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mr. George Economou. Our continued operations depend to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. George Economou. The loss of Mr. Economou’s service to our Company could adversely affect our discussions with our lenders and management of our fleet during this difficult economic period and, therefore, could adversely affect our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We do not currently, nor do we intend to, maintain “key man” life insurance on any of our personnel, including Mr. Economou. Our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer has affiliations with Cardiff which could create conflicts of interest. Our majority shareholder is controlled by Mr. George Economou who controls four entities that, in aggregate, own 15.8% of us as of April 6, 2010 and a foundation that owns 70% of Cardiff. Mr. Economou is also our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and a director of our Company. These responsibilities and relationships could create conflicts of interest between us, on the one hand, and Cardiff, on the other hand. These conflicts may arise in connection with the chartering, purchase, sale and operations of the vessels in our fleet versus drybulk carriers managed by other companies affiliated with Cardiff and Mr. Economou. In particular, Cardiff may give preferential treatment to vessels that are beneficially owned by related parties because Mr. Economou and members of his family may receive greater economic benefits. We may have difficulty managing our planned growth properly. We intend to continue to grow our fleet. Our future growth will primarily depend on our ability to: • locate and acquire suitable vessels; • identify and consummate acquisitions or joint ventures; • enhance our customer base; • manage our expansion; and • obtain required financing on acceptable terms. Growing any business by acquisition presents numerous risks, such as undisclosed liabilities and obligations, the possibility that indemnification agreements will be unenforceable or insufficient to cover potential losses and difficulties associated with imposing common standards, controls, procedures and policies, obtaining additional qualified personnel, managing relationships with customers and integrating newly acquired assets and operations into existing infrastructure. We may be unable to successfully execute our growth plans or we may incur significant expenses and losses in connection with our future growth which would have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. If our vessels fail to maintain their class certification and/or fail any annual survey, intermediate survey, dry docking or special survey, that vessel would be unable to carry cargo, thereby reducing our revenues and profitability and violating certain covenants under our credit facilities. The hull and machinery of every commercial drybulk vessel and rig must be classed by a classification society authorized by its country of registry. The classification society certifies that a vessel is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of the vessel and the Safety of Life at Sea Convention, or SOLAS. All of our drybulk vessels are certified as being “in class” by all the major Classification Societies (e.g., American Bureau of Shipping, Lloyd’s Register of Shipping). Both our drilling rigs are certified as being “in class” by De Norske Veritas (DNV). The Leiv Eiriksson completed the 5-year class in 2006 and the Eirik Raude in 2007. 25 Table of Contents A drybulk vessel must undergo annual surveys, intermediate surveys, dry dockings and special surveys. In lieu of a special survey, a vessel’s machinery may be on a continuous survey cycle, under which the machinery would be surveyed periodically over a five-year period. Every vessel is also required to be dry docked every two to three years for inspection of the underwater parts of such vessel. If any drybulk vessel does not maintain its class and/or fails any annual survey, intermediate survey, dry docking or special survey, the vessel will be unable to carry cargo between ports and will be unemployable and uninsurable which could cause us to be in violation of certain covenants in our credit facilities. Any such inability to carry cargo or be employed, or any such violation of covenants, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. That status could cause us to be in violation of certain covenants in our credit facility. The aging of our drybulk carrier fleet may result in increased operating costs or loss of hire in the future, which could adversely affect our earnings. In general, the cost of maintaining a vessel in good operating condition increases with the age of the vessel. As of April 6, 2010, the 37 vessels in our drybulk carrier fleet had an average age of 8.3 years. As our fleet ages we will incur increased costs. Older vessels are typically less fuel efficient and more costly to maintain than more recently constructed vessels due to improvements in engine technology. Cargo insurance rates increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers. Governmental regulations and safety or other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may also require expenditures for alterations or the addition of new equipment to our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which our vessels may engage. As our vessels age, market conditions may not justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. In addition, charterers actively discriminate against hiring older vessels. For example, Rightship, the ship vetting service founded by Rio Tinto and BHP-Billiton which has become the major vetting service in the drybulk shipping industry, ranks the suitability of vessels based on a scale of one to five stars. Most major carriers will not charter a vessel that Rightship has vetted with fewer than three stars. Rightship automatically downgrades any vessel over 18 years of age to two stars, which significantly decreases its chances of entering into a charter. Therefore, as our vessels approach and exceed 18 years of age, we may not be able to operate these vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. Our vessels may suffer damage and we may face unexpected dry docking costs, which could adversely affect our cash flow and financial condition. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a dry docking facility. The costs of dry dock repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. The loss of earnings while our vessels are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease our earnings and reduce the amount of dividends, if any, in the future. We may not have insurance that is sufficient to cover all or any of these costs or losses and may have to pay dry docking costs not covered by our insurance. If our drilling rigs suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a yard facility. The costs of discontinued operations due to repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. The loss of earnings while our rigs are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease our earnings and reduce the amount of dividends, if any, in the future. We may not have insurance that is sufficient to cover all or any of these costs or losses and may have to pay repair costs not covered by our insurance. 26 Table of Contents Currently, our revenues from the offshore drilling segment depend on two drilling rigs, which are designed to operate in harsh environments. The damage or loss of either of these drilling rigs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our revenues from the offshore drilling segment are dependent on two drilling rigs, the Eirik Raude, which is currently operating offshore Ghana and the Leiv Eiriksson, which is currently operating in the Black Sea. Both drilling rigs may be exposed to risks inherent in deepwater drilling and operating in harsh environments that may cause damage or loss. The drilling of oil and gas wells, particularly exploratory wells where little is known of the subsurface formations involves risks, such as extreme pressure and temperature, blowouts, reservoir damage, loss of production, loss of well control, lost or stuck drill strings, equipment defects, punch-throughs, craterings, fires, explosions, pollution and natural disasters such as hurricanes and tropical storms. In addition, offshore drilling operations are subject to perils peculiar to marine operations, either while on-site or during mobilization, including capsizing, sinking, grounding, collision, marine life infestations, and loss or damage from severe weather. The replacement or repair of a rig could take a significant amount of time, and we may not have any right to compensation for lost revenues during that time, despite our comprehensive loss of hire insurance policy. As long as we have only two drilling rigs in operation, loss of or serious damage to one of the drilling rigs could materially reduce our revenues in our offshore drilling segment for the time that a rig is out of operation. In view of the sophisticated design of the drilling rigs, we may be unable to obtain a replacement rig that could perform under the conditions that our drilling rigs are expected to operate, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are exposed to U.S. Dollar and foreign currency fluctuations and devaluations that could harm our reported revenue and results of operations. We generate all of our revenues in U.S. Dollars but currently incur approximately 50% of our operating expenses and the majority of our general and administrative expenses in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, primarily the Euro. Our principal currency for our operations and financing for the offshore drilling sector is the U.S. Dollar. The day-rates for the drilling rigs, our principal source of revenues in the offshore drilling sector, are quoted and received in U.S. Dollars. The principal currency for operating expenses in the offshore drilling sector is also the U.S. Dollar; however, a significant portion of employee salaries and administration expenses, as well as parts of the consumables and repair and maintenance expenses for the drilling rigs, are paid in Norwegian Kroner (NOK), Great British Pound (GBP), Canadian dollar (CAD) and Euro (EUR). Because a significant portion of our expenses are incurred in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, our expenses may from time to time increase relative to our revenues as a result of fluctuations in exchange rates, particularly between the U.S. Dollar and the Euro, which could affect the amount of net income that we report in future periods. We use financial derivatives to operationally hedge some of our currency exposure. Our use of financial derivatives involves certain risks, including the risk that losses on a hedged position could exceed the nominal amount invested in the instrument and the risk that the counterparty to the derivative transaction may be unable or unwilling to satisfy its contractual obligations, which could have an adverse effect on our results. If the recent volatility in LIBOR continues, it could affect our profitability, earnings and cash flow. LIBOR has recently been volatile, with the spread between LIBOR and the prime lending rate widening significantly at times. These conditions are the result of the recent disruptions in the international credit markets. Because the interest rates borne by our outstanding indebtedness fluctuate with changes in LIBOR, if this volatility were to continue, it would affect the amount of interest payable on our debt, which in turn, could have an adverse effect on our profitability, earnings and cash flow. Furthermore, interest in most loan agreements in our industry has been based on published LIBOR rates. Recently, however, lenders have insisted on provisions that entitle the lenders, in their discretion, to replace published LIBOR as the base for the interest calculation with their cost-of-funds rate. If we are required to agree to such a provision in future loan agreements, our lending costs could increase significantly, which would have an adverse effect on our profitability, earnings and cash flow. We are a holding company, and we depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us in order to satisfy our financial obligations or pay dividends, if any, in the future. We are a holding company and our subsidiaries, which are all wholly-owned by us either directly or indirectly, conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. We have no significant assets other than the equity interests in our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to make dividend payments, if any, in the future 27 Table of Contents depends on our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. Under the waivers of our non-compliance with covenants in our loan agreements, we are prohibited from paying dividends during the waiver period. Furthermore, certain of our subsidiaries are obligated to use their surplus cash to prepay the balance on their long-term loans. If we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries, our board of directors may not exercise its discretion to pay dividends in the future. We do not intend to obtain funds from other sources to pay dividends, if any, in the future. In addition, the declaration and payment of dividends, if any, in the future will depend on the provisions of Marshall Islands law affecting the payment of dividends. Marshall Islands law generally prohibits the payment of dividends if the company is insolvent or would be rendered insolvent upon payment of such dividend and dividends may be declared and paid out of our operating surplus; but in this case, there is no such surplus. Dividends may be declared or paid out of net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared and for the preceding fiscal year. Our ability to pay dividends, if any, in the future will also be subject to our satisfaction of certain financial covenants contained in our credit facilities and certain waivers related thereto. We may be unable to pay dividends in the anticipated amounts or at all. As we expand our business, we may need to improve our operating and financial systems and will need to recruit suitable employees and crew for our vessels. Our current operating and financial systems may not be adequate as we expand the size of our fleet and our attempts to improve those systems may be ineffective. In addition, as we expand our fleet, we will need to recruit suitable additional seafarers and shoreside administrative and management personnel. We may be unable to hire suitable employees as we expand our fleet. If we or our crewing agent encounters business or financial difficulties, we may not be able to adequately staff our vessels. If we are unable to grow our financial and operating systems or to recruit suitable employees as we expand our fleet, our financial performance and our ability to pay dividends, if any, in the future may be adversely affected. U.S. tax authorities could treat us as a “passive foreign investment company,” which could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders. A foreign corporation will be treated as a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of “passive income” or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation’s assets produce or are held for the production of those types of “passive income.” For purposes of these tests, “passive income” includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute “passive income.” U.S. shareholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. Based on our method of operation, we do not believe that we are, have been or will be a PFIC with respect to any taxable year. In this regard, we intend to treat the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our time and voyage chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, we believe that our income from our time and voyage chartering activities does not constitute passive income, and the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income do not constitute assets that produce or are held for production of passive income. There is substantial legal authority supporting this position consisting of case law and U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, pronouncements concerning the characterization of income derived from time charters and voyage charters as services income for other tax purposes. However, it should be noted that there is also authority which characterizes time charter income as rental income rather than services income for other tax purposes. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the IRS or a court of law will accept this position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are a PFIC. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we would not constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if the nature and extent of our operations changed. If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, our U.S. shareholders will face adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences. Under the PFIC rules, unless those shareholders make an election 28 Table of Contents available under the Code (which election could itself have adverse consequences for such shareholders, as discussed below under “Additional Information – Taxation”), such shareholders would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at the then prevailing income tax rates on ordinary income plus interest upon excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our common shares, as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the U.S. shareholder’s holding period of our common shares. See “Additional Information – Taxation” for a more comprehensive discussion of the U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders if we are treated as a PFIC. We may have to pay tax on United States source shipping income, which would reduce our earnings. Under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or the Code, 50% of the gross shipping income of a vessel-owning or -chartering corporation, such as ourselves and certain of our subsidiaries, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States may be subject to a 4% U.S. federal income tax without allowance for any deductions, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder. We expect that we and each of our vessel-owning subsidiaries qualify for this statutory tax exemption and we have taken and intend to continue to take this position for U.S. federal income tax return reporting purposes. However, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause us to lose the benefit of this tax exemption and thereby become subject to U.S. federal income tax on our U.S. source shipping income. For example, we would no longer qualify for exemption under Section 883 of the Code for a particular taxable year if shareholders with a five percent or greater interest in our common stock owned, in the aggregate, 50% or more of our outstanding common stock for more than half of the days during the taxable year. Due to the factual nature of the issues involved, it is possible that our tax-exempt status or that of any of our subsidiaries may change. If we or our vessel-owning subsidiaries are not entitled to this exemption under Section 883 for any taxable year, we or our subsidiaries could be subject for those years to an effective 2% (i.e., 50% of 4%) U.S. federal income tax on our gross shipping income attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States. The imposition of this taxation could have a negative effect on our business and would result in decreased earnings available for distribution to our shareholders. The preferential tax rates applicable to qualified dividend income are temporary, and the enactment of proposed legislation could affect whether dividends paid by us constitute qualified dividend income eligible for the preferential rate. Certain of our distributions may be treated as qualified dividend income eligible for preferential rates of U.S. federal income tax to non-corporate U.S. shareholders. In the absence of legislation extending the term for these preferential tax rates, all dividends received by such U.S. taxpayers in tax years beginning on January 1, 2011 or later will be taxed at graduated tax rates applicable to ordinary income. In addition, legislation has been proposed in the U.S. Congress that would, if enacted, deny the preferential rate of U.S. federal income tax currently imposed on qualified dividend income with respect to dividends received from a non-U.S. corporation if the non-U.S. corporation is created or organized under the laws of a jurisdiction that does not have a comprehensive income tax system. Because the Marshall Islands imposes only limited taxes on entities organized under its laws, it is likely that if this legislation were enacted, the preferential tax rates of federal income tax may no longer be applicable to distributions received from us. As of the date of this prospectus, it is not possible to predict with certainty whether this proposed legislation will be enacted. A change in tax laws, treaties or regulations, or their interpretation, of any country in which we operate our drilling rigs could result in a high tax rate on our worldwide earnings, which could result in a significant negative impact on our earnings and cash flows from operations. We conduct our worldwide drilling operations through various subsidiaries. Tax laws and regulations are highly complex and subject to interpretation. Consequently, we are subject to changing tax laws, treaties and regulations in and between countries in which we operate. Our income tax expense is based upon our interpretation 29 Table of Contents of tax laws in effect in various countries at the time that the expense was incurred. A change in these tax laws, treaties or regulations, or in the interpretation thereof, or in the valuation of our deferred tax assets, could result in a materially higher tax expense or a higher effective tax rate on our worldwide earnings in our offshore drilling segment, and such change could be significant to our financial results. If any tax authority successfully challenges our operational structure, inter-company pricing policies or the taxable presence of our key subsidiaries in certain countries; or if the terms of certain income tax treaties are interpreted in a manner that is adverse to our structure; or if we lose a material tax dispute in any country, particularly in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, or Norway, our effective tax rate on our worldwide earnings from our offshore drilling operations could increase substantially and our earnings and cash flows from these operations could be materially adversely affected. Our subsidiaries that provide services relating to drilling may be subject to taxation in the jurisdictions in which such activities are conducted. Such taxation would result in decreased earnings available to our shareholders. Ocean Rig ASA has transferred the domicile of its subsidiaries that own, directly or indirectly, the Leiv Eiriksson and the Eirik Raude to the Republic of the Marshall Islands. The Leiv Eiriksson and the Eirik Raude were transferred to the Marshall Island entities in December 2008 and the remainder of the rig-owning structure has been reorganized under Marshall Island entities during 2009. Investors are encouraged to consult their own tax advisors concerning the overall tax consequences of the ownership of our common stock arising in an investor’s particular situation under U.S. federal, state, local and foreign law. A spin-off of our subsidiary, Ocean Rig UDW, may have adverse tax consequences to shareholders. We may distribute, or spin-off, a majority voting and economic interest in our subsidiary, Ocean Rig UDW Inc., or Ocean Rig UDW, formerly known as Primelead Shareholders Inc., sometime in 2010. A spin-off of Ocean Rig UDW may be a taxable transaction to our shareholders depending upon their country of residence. A shareholder may recognize taxable gain and be subject to tax as a result of receiving shares of Ocean Rig UDW in the spin-off, notwithstanding that cash had not been received. In addition, after the spin-off, Ocean Rig UDW may be treated as a PFIC, which would have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to a U.S. share holder of Ocean Rig UDW. Under the PFIC rules, unless those shareholders make an election available under the Code (which election could itself have adverse consequences for such shareholders), such U.S. shareholders would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at the then prevailing income tax rates on ordinary income plus interest upon excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of shares of Ocean Rig UDW, as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the shareholder’s holding period in such shares. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover our losses that may result from our operations due to the inherent operational risks of the offshore drilling contract industry. We maintain insurance in accordance with industry standards. Our insurance is intended to cover normal risks in our current operations, including insurance against property damage, loss of hire, war risk and third-party liability, including pollution liability. Although we have obtained insurance for the full assessed market value of our drilling units, insurance coverage may not, under certain circumstances, be available, and if available, may not provide sufficient funds to protect us from all losses and liabilities that could result from our operations. We have also obtained loss of hire insurance which becomes effective after 45 days of downtime and coverage extends for approximately one year. The principal risks which may not be insurable are various environmental liabilities and liabilities resulting from reservoir damage caused by our negligence. Moreover, our insurance provides for premium adjustments based on claims and is subject to deductibles and aggregate recovery limits. In the case of pollution liabilities, our deductible is $25,000 per event and $10,000 in the case of other claims, our deductible is $1.5 million per hull and machinery event and our aggregate recovery limits are $624 million under our protection and indemnity insurance which is provided by mutual protection and indemnity associations. Our insurance coverage may not protect fully against losses resulting from a required cessation of rig operations for environmental or other reasons. The occurrence of a casualty, loss or liability against which we may not be fully insured could significantly reduce our revenues, make it financially impossible for us to obtain a replacement rig or to repair a damaged rig, cause us to pay fines or damages which are generally not insurable and that may have priority over the payment obligations under our indebtedness or otherwise impair our ability to meet our obligations under our indebtedness and to operate profitably. Insurance may not be available to us at all or on terms acceptable to us, we may not maintain insurance or, if we are so insured, our policy may not be adequate to cover our loss or liability in all cases. 30 Table of Contents Our customers may be involved in the handling of environmentally hazardous substances and if discharged into the ocean may subject us to pollution liability which could have a negative impact on our cash flows, results of operations and ability to pay dividends, if any, in the future. Our operations may involve the use or handling of materials that may be classified as environmentally hazardous substances. Environmental laws and regulations applicable in the countries in which we conduct operations have generally become more stringent. Such laws and regulations may expose us to liability for the conduct of or for conditions caused by others, or for our acts that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time such actions were taken. During our drilling operations in the past, we, through our subsidiary Ocean Rig ASA, have caused the release of oil, waste and other pollutants into the sea and into protected areas, such as the Barents Sea where on April 12, 2005, we discharged less than one cubic meter of hydraulic oil. While we conduct maintenance on our drilling rigs in an effort to prevent such releases, future releases could occur, especially as our rigs age. Such releases may be large in quantity, above our permitted limits or in protected or other areas in which public interest groups or governmental authorities have an interest. These releases could result in fines and other costs to us, such as costs to upgrade our drilling rigs, costs to clean up the pollution, and costs to comply with more stringent requirements in our discharge permits. Moreover, these releases may result in our customers or governmental authorities suspending or terminating our operations in the affected area, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. We expect that we will be able to obtain some degree of contractual indemnification from our customers in most of our drilling contracts against pollution and environmental damages. But such indemnification may not be enforceable in all instances, the customer may not be financially capable in all cases of complying with its indemnity obligations or we may not be able to obtain such indemnification agreements in the future. Failure to attract or retain key personnel, labor disruptions or an increase in labor costs could hurt our operations in the offshore drilling sector. We require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our business in the offshore drilling sector worldwide. We had at December 31, 2009 approximately 432 skilled employees in our offshore drilling sector, the majority of whom are employed on the Leiv Eiriksson and the Eirik Raude. Competition for the labor required for drilling operations has intensified as the number of rigs activated, added to worldwide fleets or under construction has increased, leading to shortages of qualified personnel in the industry and creating upward pressure on wages and higher turnover. If turnover increases, we could see a reduction in the experience level of our personnel, which could lead to higher downtime, more operating incidents and personal injury and other claims, which in turn could decrease revenues and increase costs. In addition, labor disruptions could hinder our operations from being carried out normally and if not resolved in a timely cost-effective manner, could have a material impact our business. In response to these labor market conditions, we are increasing efforts in our recruitment, training, development and retention programs as required to meet our anticipated personnel needs for offshore drilling. If these labor trends continue, we may experience further increases in costs or limits on operations in the offshore drilling sector. Some of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. If we choose to cease operations in one of those countries or if market conditions reduce the demand for our drilling services in such a country, we would incur costs, which may be material, associated with workforce reductions. In addition, upon their expiration, these agreements may be renegotiated, and as a result, we could experience higher personnel expenses, other increased costs and increased operating restrictions, which may be material to our business in the offshore drilling sector. 31 Table of Contents Our operating and maintenance costs with respect to our offshore drilling rigs will not necessarily fluctuate in proportion to changes in operating revenues, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our operating and maintenance costs with respect to our offshore drilling rigs will not necessarily fluctuate in proportion to changes in operating revenues. Operating revenues may fluctuate as a function of changes in day-rate. However, costs for operating a rig are generally fixed or only semi-variable regardless of the day-rate being earned. In addition, should our drilling units incur idle time between contracts, we typically will not de-man those drilling units because we will use the crew to prepare the rig for its next contract. During times of reduced activity, reductions in costs may not be immediate as portions of the crew may be required to prepare rigs for stacking, after which time the crew members are assigned to active rigs or dismissed. In addition, as our drilling units are mobilized from one geographic location to another, the labor and other operating and maintenance costs can vary significantly. In general, labor costs increase primarily due to higher salary levels and inflation. Equipment maintenance expenses fluctuate depending upon the type of activity the unit is performing and the age and condition of the equipment. Contract preparation expenses vary based on the scope and length of contract preparation required and the duration of the firm contractual period over which such expenditures are incurred. If we experience increased operating costs without a corresponding increase in earnings, this may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We may be subject to litigation that, if not resolved in our favor and not sufficiently insured against, could have a material adverse effect on us. We may be, from time to time, involved in various litigation matters. These matters may include, among other things, contract disputes, personal injury claims, environmental claims or proceedings, asbestos and other toxic tort claims, employment matters, governmental claims for taxes or duties, and other litigation that arises in the ordinary course of our business. Although we intend to defend these matters vigorously, we cannot predict with certainty the outcome or effect of any claim or other litigation matter, and the ultimate outcome of any litigation or the potential costs to resolve them may have a material adverse effect on us. Insurance may not be applicable or sufficient in all cases and/or insurers may not remain solvent which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock We are incorporated in the Republic of the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of corporate law, and as a result, shareholders may have fewer rights and protections under Marshall Islands law than under a typical jurisdiction in the United States. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws and by the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act, or BCA. The provisions of the BCA resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, there have been few judicial cases in the Republic of the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA. The rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the law of the Republic of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain United States jurisdictions. Shareholder rights may differ as well. While the BCA does specifically incorporate the non-statutory law, or judicial case law, of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction. A small number of our stockholders effectively control the outcome of matters on which our stockholders are entitled to vote. Entities affiliated with Mr. Economou, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer currently own, directly or indirectly, approximately 15.8% of our outstanding common stock as of April 6, 2010. While those stockholders have no agreement, arrangement or understanding relating to the voting of their shares of our common stock, they will effectively control the outcome of matters on which our stockholders are entitled to vote, including the election of directors and other significant corporate actions. The interests of these stockholders may be different from your interests. 32 Table of Contents Future sales of our common stock could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The market price of our common stock could decline due to sales, or the announcements of proposed sales, of a large number of common stock in the market, including sales of common stock by our large shareholders, or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales, or the perception that these sales could occur, could also make it more difficult or impossible for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate to raise funds through future offerings of common stock. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to, among other things, issue additional shares of common or preferred stock or securities convertible or exchangeable into equity securities, without shareholder approval. We may issue such additional equity or convertible securities to raise additional capital. The issuance of any additional shares of common or preferred stock or convertible securities could be substantially dilutive to our shareholders. Moreover, to the extent that we issue restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights, options or warrants to purchase our common shares in the future and those stock appreciation rights, options or warrants are exercised or as the restricted stock units vest, our shareholders may experience further dilution. Holders of shares of our common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle such holders to purchase their pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, such sales or offerings could result in increased dilution to our shareholders. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents could make it difficult for our stockholders to replace or remove our current board of directors or have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Several provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws could make it difficult for our stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors in any one year, preventing them from changing the composition of management. In addition, the same provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable. These provisions include: • prior to the date of the transaction that resulted in the shareholder becoming an interested shareholder, our board of directors approved either the business combination or the transaction that resulted in the shareholder becoming an interested shareholder; • authorizing our board of directors to issue “blank check” preferred stock without stockholder approval; • providing for a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms; • prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; • authorizing the removal of directors only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock entitled to vote for the directors; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; • limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; and • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, we have adopted a stockholders’ rights agreement pursuant to which our board of directors may cause the substantial dilution of the holdings of any person that attempts to acquire us without the approval of our board of directors. Under our stockholders’ rights plan adopted in 2008 and amended in 2009, our board of directors 33 Table of Contents declared a dividend of one preferred share purchase right, or a right, to purchase one one-thousandth of a share of our Series A Participating Preferred Stock for each outstanding common share. Each right entitles the registered holder, upon the occurrence of certain events, to purchase from us one one-thousandth of a share of Series A Participating Preferred Stock. The rights may have anti-takeover effects. The rights will cause substantial dilution to any person or group that attempts to acquire us without the approval of our board of directors. As a result, the overall effect of the rights may be to render more difficult or discourage any attempt to acquire us. Because our board of directors can approve a redemption of the rights or a permitted offer, the rights should not interfere with a merger or other business combination approved by our board of directors. The adoption of the rights agreement was approved by our existing stockholders prior to the offering. Although the Marshall Islands Business Corporation Act does not contain specific provisions regarding “business combinations” between corporations organized under the laws of the Republic of Marshall Islands and “interested shareholders,” we have included provisions regarding such combinations in our articles of incorporation. Our articles of incorporation contain provisions which prohibit us from engaging in a business combination with an interested shareholder for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested shareholder, unless: • authorizing our board of directors to issue “blank check” preferred stock without stockholder approval; • upon consummation of the transaction that resulted in the shareholder becoming an interested shareholder, the interested shareholder owned at least 85% of our voting stock outstanding at the time the transaction commenced; • at or subsequent to the date of the transaction that resulted in the shareholder becoming an interested shareholder, the business combination is approved by the board of directors and authorized at an annual or special meeting of shareholders by the affirmative vote of at least 66 2/3% of the outstanding voting stock that is not owned by the interested shareholder; or • the shareholder became an interested shareholder prior to the consummation of the Initial Public Offering. For purposes of these provisions, a “business combination” includes mergers, consolidations, exchanges, asset sales, leases and other transactions resulting in a financial benefit to the interested shareholder and an “interested shareholder” is any person or entity that beneficially owns 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock and any person or entity affiliated with or controlling or controlled by that person or entity. Further, the term “business combination”, when used in reference to us and any “interested shareholder” does not include any transactions for which definitive agreements were entered into prior to the date the articles were filed with the Republic of the Marshall Islands. 