ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Prospective investors should consider carefully the risk factors set forth below before making an investment in the Company’s securities. A Decline in Advertising Expenditures Could Cause the Company’s Revenues and Operating Results to Decline Significantly in any Given Period or in Specific Markets. The Company derives substantial revenues from the sale of advertising on or in its television stations, broadcast and cable networks, newspapers and inserts, websites and DBS services. Expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions, as well as budgeting and buying patterns. A decline in the economic prospects of advertisers or the economy in general could alter current or prospective advertisers’ spending priorities. Demand for the Company’s products is also a factor in determining advertising rates. For example, ratings points for the Company’s television stations, broadcast and cable networks and circulation levels for the Company’s newspapers are factors that are weighed when determining advertising rates, and with respect to the Company’s television stations and broadcast and television networks, when determining the affiliate rates received by the Company. In addition, newer technologies, including new video formats, streaming and downloading capabilities via the Internet, video-on-demand, personal video recorders and other devices and technologies are increasing the number of media and entertainment choices available to audiences. Some of these devices and technologies allow users to view television or motion pictures from a remote location or on a time-delayed basis and provide users the ability to fast-forward, rewind, pause and skip programming. These technological developments are increasing the number of media and entertainment choices available to audiences and may cause changes in consumer behavior that could affect the attractiveness of the Company’s offerings to viewers, advertisers and/or distributors. A decrease in advertising expenditures or reduced demand for the Company’s offerings can lead to a reduction in pricing and advertising spending, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s businesses. 30 Table of Contents Acceptance of the Company’s Film and Television Programming by the Public is Difficult to Predict, Which Could Lead to Fluctuations in Revenues. Feature film and television production and distribution are speculative businesses since the revenues derived from the production and distribution of a feature film or television series depend primarily upon its acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. The commercial success of a feature film or television series also depends upon the quality and acceptance of other competing films and television series released into the marketplace at or near the same time, the availability of a growing number of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions and other tangible and intangible factors, all of which can change and cannot be predicted with certainty. Further, the theatrical success of a feature film and the audience ratings for a television series are generally key factors in generating revenues from other distribution channels, such as home entertainment and premium pay television, with respect to feature films, and syndication, with respect to television series. The Loss of Carriage Agreements Could Cause the Company’s Revenue and Operating Results to Decline Significantly in any Given Period or in Specific Markets. The Company is dependent upon the maintenance of affiliation agreements with third party owned television stations, and there can be no assurance that these affiliation agreements will be renewed in the future on terms acceptable to the Company. The loss of a significant number of these affiliation arrangements could reduce the distribution of FOX and MyNetworkTV and adversely affect the Company’s ability to sell national advertising time. Similarly, the Company’s cable networks maintain affiliation and carriage arrangements that enable them to reach a large percentage of cable and direct broadcast satellite households across the United States. The loss of a significant number of these arrangements or the loss of carriage on basic programming tiers could reduce the distribution of the Company’s cable networks, which may adversely affect those networks’ revenues from subscriber fees and their ability to sell national and local advertising time. The Inability to Renew Sports Programming Rights Could Cause the Company’s Advertising Revenue to Decline Significantly in any Given Period or in Specific Markets. The sports rights contracts between the Company, on the one hand, and various professional sports leagues and teams, on the other, have varying duration and renewal terms. As these contracts expire, renewals on favorable terms may be sought; however, third parties may outbid the current rights holders for the rights contracts. In addition, professional sports leagues or teams may create their own networks or the renewal costs could substantially exceed the original contract cost. The loss of rights could impact the extent of the sports coverage offered by the Company and its affiliates, as it relates to FOX, and could adversely affect the Company’s advertising and affiliate revenues. Upon renewal, the Company’s results could be adversely affected if escalations in sports programming rights costs are unmatched by increases in advertising rates and, in the case of cable networks, subscriber fees. Technological Developments May Increase the Threat of Content Piracy and Signal Theft and Limit the Company’s Ability to Protect Its Intellectual Property Rights. The Company seeks to limit the threat of content piracy and DBS programming signal theft; however, policing unauthorized use of the Company’s products and services and related intellectual property is often difficult and the steps taken by the Company may not in every case prevent the infringement by unauthorized third parties. Developments in technology, including digital copying, file compressing and the growing penetration of high-bandwidth Internet connections, increase the threat of content piracy by making it easier to duplicate and widely distribute pirated material. In addition, developments in software or devices that circumvent encryption technology increase the threat of unauthorized use and distribution of DBS programming signals. The Company has taken, and will continue to take, a variety of actions to combat piracy and signal theft, both individually and, in some instances, together with industry associations. There can be no assurance that the 31 Table of Contents Company’s efforts to enforce its rights and protect its products, services and intellectual property will be successful in preventing content piracy or signal theft. Content piracy and signal theft present a threat to the Company’s revenues from products and services, including, but not limited to, films, television shows, books and DBS programming. Labor Disputes May Have an Adverse Effect on the Company’s Business. In a variety of the Company’s businesses, the Company and its partners engage the services of writers, directors, actors and other talent, trade employees and others who are subject to collective bargaining agreements, including employees of the Company’s film and television studio operations and newspapers. If the Company or its partners are unable to renew expiring collective bargaining agreements, certain of which have or are expiring within the next year or so, it is possible that the affected unions could take action in the form of strikes or work stoppages. Such actions, as well as higher costs in connection with these collective bargaining agreements or a significant labor dispute could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business by causing delays in production or by reducing profit margins. Changes in U.S. or Foreign Communications Laws and Other Regulations May Have an Adverse Effect on the Company’s Business. In general, the television broadcasting and multichannel video programming and distribution industries in the United States are highly regulated by federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the FCC. The FCC generally regulates, among other things, the ownership of media, broadcast and multichannel video programming and technical operations of broadcast and satellite licensees. Further, the United States Congress and the FCC currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters, including technological changes, which could, directly or indirectly, affect the operations and ownership of the Company’s U.S. media properties. Similarly, changes in regulations imposed by governments in other jurisdictions in which the Company, or entities in which the Company has an interest, operate could adversely affect its business and results of operations. Provisions in the Company’s Corporate Documents, Delaware Law and the Ownership of the Company’s Class B Common Stock by Certain Principal Stockholders Could Delay or Prevent a Change of Control of News Corporation, Even if That Change Would be Beneficial to the Company’s Stockholders. The existence of some provisions in the Company’s corporate documents could delay or prevent a change of control of News Corporation, even if that change would be beneficial to the Company’s stockholders. The Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-laws, contain provisions that may make acquiring control of News Corporation difficult, including: • provisions relating to the classification, nomination and removal of directors; • a provision prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; • provisions regulating the ability of the Company’s stockholders to bring matters for action before annual and special meetings of the Company’s stockholders; and • the authorization given to the Company’s Board of Directors (the “Board”) to issue and set the terms of preferred stock. On April 15, 2008, as a result of the closing of the transactions contemplated under the Share Exchange Agreement, the Board approved the elimination of the Company’s classified board structure beginning at the Company’s annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2008, subject to stockholder approval at that meeting by the Company’s Class B common stockholders of an amendment to the Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation to allow for the annual election of directors. 32 Table of Contents Further, as a result of Mr. K. Rupert Murdoch’s ability to appoint certain members of the board of directors of the corporate trustee of the Murdoch Family Trust, which beneficially owns 0.5% of the Company’s Class A Common Stock and 37.2% of its Class B Common Stock, Mr. K. Rupert Murdoch may be deemed to be a beneficial owner of the shares beneficially owned by the Murdoch Family Trust. Mr. K. Rupert Murdoch, however, disclaims any beneficial ownership of those shares. Also, Mr. K. Rupert Murdoch beneficially owns an additional 1.1% of the Company’s Class A Common Stock and 1.3% of its Class B Common Stock. Thus, Mr. K. Rupert Murdoch may be deemed to beneficially own in the aggregate 1.7% of the Company’s Class A Common Stock and 38.6% of the Company’s Class B Common Stock. Further, if the Company completes its previously announced stock repurchase program, the aggregate voting power represented by the shares of the Company’s Class B Common Stock held by Mr. K. Rupert Murdoch and the Murdoch Family Trust would increase to approximately 40.3% of the Company’s aggregate voting power. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 