1A. Risk Factors” in this Annual Report. The Company does not ordinarily make projections of its future operating results and undertakes no obligation (and expressly disclaims any obligation) to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Readers should carefully review this document and the other documents filed by the Company with the SEC. This section should be read together with the Consolidated Financial Statements of News Corporation and related notes set forth elsewhere in this Annual Report. BUSINESS OVERVIEW The Company is a diversified global media company, which manages and reports its businesses in the six segments described below. Cable Network Programming The Company produces and licenses news, business news, sports, general entertainment and movie programming for distribution primarily through cable television systems and direct broadcast satellite operators in the United States and internationally. 2 Table of Contents FOX News. FOX News owns and operates the FOX News Channel, the top rated 24/7 all news national cable channel currently available to approximately 98 million U.S. households according to Nielsen Media Research, as well as the FOX Business Network which is currently available in over 68 million U.S. households. FOX News also produces a weekend political commentary show, FOX News Sunday, for broadcast on local FOX television stations throughout the United States. FOX News, through its FOX News Edge service, licenses news feeds to FOX Affiliates and other subscribers to use as part of local news broadcasts throughout the United States and abroad. FOX News also produces and runs the websites, FOXNews.com and FOXBusiness.com, and owns and produces the national FOX News Radio Network, which licenses news updates, long form programs and the FOX News Talk Channel to local radio stations and to satellite radio providers. FSN. Fox Sports Net, Inc. (“FSN, Inc.”) is the largest regional sports network (“RSN”) programmer in the United States, focusing on live professional and major collegiate home team sports events. FSN, Inc.’s sports programming business currently consists primarily of ownership interests in 13 RSNs, including numerous sub-regional feeds (the “FSN RSNs”) and National Sports Programming, which operates FSN (“FSN”), a national sports programming service. FSN, Inc. also is affiliated with, through FSN, an additional four RSNs that are not owned by FSN, Inc. (the “FSN Affiliated RSNs”). FSN provides the FSN RSNs and the FSN Affiliated RSNs with national sports programming, featuring original and licensed sports-related programming, as well as live and replay sporting events. The FSN RSNs and the FSN Affiliated RSNs currently have approximately 67 million subscribers and have rights to telecast live games of 51 of 81 U.S. professional sports teams in Major League Baseball (“MLB”), the National Basketball Association and the National Hockey League; collegiate conferences; and numerous college and high school sports teams. FX. Currently reaching close to 100 million U.S. households according to Nielsen Media Research, FX is a general entertainment network that telecasts a growing roster of original series, as well as acquired television series and motion pictures. FX’s lineup for the 2012-2013 season includes the critically acclaimed Sons of Anarchy (season five), Justified (season four) and American Horror Story (season two). Also included in the 2012-2013 season line-up are the eighth season of the comedy series It’s Always Sunny in Philadelphia, the fourth seasons of Archer and The League, the third season of Louie, the second season of Wilfred and the premiere season of Anger Management. Current syndicated series include Two and a Half Men and How I Met Your Mother. During the 2012-2013 season, FX will also showcase the television premieres of theatrical motion pictures, including Twilight New Moon, Twilight Eclipse, Iron Man II, Karate Kid, Grown Ups, True Grit, How to Train Your Dragon and X-Men: First Class. FX also recently acquired the telecast premiere rights to 2012’s number one movie The Avengers, as well as Prometheus, Watchmen, Men In Black 3, The Lorax, Taken 2, Madagascar 3, Act of Valor and Bourne Legacy, among others. The Company also produces and distributes FX HD, a 24-hour national programming service produced and distributed in high definition. In 2011, FX began airing Saturday college football games as part of the Fox Sports on FX package. FX is also airing The Ultimate Fighter, the weekly signature reality show of the Ultimate Fighting Championship (“UFC”), as well as an additional four to six live UFC events annually. SPEED. Currently reaching more than 81 million households in the United States according to Nielsen Media Research, SPEED brings viewers season-long coverage of the National Association of Stock Car Auto Racing (“NASCAR”) races, events and original programming (including exclusive coverage of the annual NASCAR Sprint All-Star Race and NASCAR Hall of Fame ceremonies). In addition, SPEED delivers programming from other top racing series, such as Formula One, Grand American Road Racing, The 24 Hours of Le Mans, World of Outlaws, AMA Pro Racing, AMA Supercross, Monster Jam, World Superbike and MotoGP. In the spring of 2012, SPEED premiered the new enthusiast series, Hard Parts: South Bronx. SPEED also is distributed by Fox Latin America Channels to subscribers in Mexico, Canada and Latin America and by Premier Media Group in Australia. The Company also produces and distributes SPEED HD, a 24-hour national programming service produced and distributed in high definition. SPEED’s broadband network SPEED2 features live and on-demand streaming of over 200 hours of motorsports events and enthusiast programming online and is expected to reach more than 30 million households in 2012. 3 Table of Contents FUEL TV. FUEL TV is a domestic 24-hour programming service dedicated to thrill seeking sports, as well as high energy entertainment programming, and the lifestyle surrounding it. FUEL TV covers both competitive and performance action in the arenas of UFC, surfing, BMX and freestyle motocross. Programming includes U.S. and international action sports events and competitions, as well as original series and specials about top action sports athletes and their music, art and culture from a global perspective. Fox College Sports. Fox College Sports consists of three regionally-aligned networks, FCS Pacific, FCS Central and FCS Atlantic. Fox College Sports provides live and delayed collegiate events from the nation’s top collegiate conferences, coaches’ shows and collegiate highlight and magazine-format programming from the FSN RSNs across the country. Fox Movie Channel. Beginning in January 2012, Fox Movie Channel split its programming into two day parts. From 3AM to 3PM, the network is branded as FMC and airs films from the historic library of Twentieth Century Fox, uncut and commercial free. From 3PM to 3AM, the network is branded as FXM and utilizes FX’s roster of box office blockbuster modern day films with revenue generated from advertising. Also featured throughout both day parts are documentaries and original series that explore the moviemaking process from script to screen. Fox Soccer Channel. Fox Soccer Channel is an English-language programming service offering comprehensive coverage of world-class soccer. Top properties include the UEFA Champions League and European League, England’s Barclays Premier League, FA Cup, the CONCACAF Champions League and the CONCACAF Gold Cup, along with daily soccer news programs, magazine shows and in depth coverage on the world’s most popular sport. The Company also produces and distributes Fox Soccer Channel HD, a 24-hour national programming service produced and distributed in high definition. Fox Soccer Plus. Launched in fiscal 2010, Fox Soccer Plus is a premium cable network showcasing nearly 700 exclusive live soccer and rugby competitions. Soccer events include matches from the UEFA Champions League, England’s Barclays Premier League, and FA Cup. Rugby coverage includes matches from the Heineken Cup, Aviva Premiership and RaboDirect Pro 12. Big Ten Network. The Company owns an approximate 51% interest in the Big Ten Network, a 24-hour national programming service dedicated to the Big Ten Conference and Big Ten athletics, academics and related programming, and Big Ten Network HD, a 24-hour national programming service produced and distributed in HD. National Geographic U.S. The Company holds an approximate 70% interest in NGC Network US LLC (“NGC Network”), which produces and distributes the National Geographic Channel and National Geographic Channel HD, Nat Geo Wild and Nat Geo Wild HD in the United States, with NGHT, LLC, a subsidiary of the National Geographic Society (“NGHT”), holding the remaining interest. National Geographic Channel and National Geographic Channel HD currently reach more than 84 million households in the United States and Nat Geo Wild and Nat Geo Wild HD reach more than 57 million subscribers in the United States according to Nielsen Media Research. The National Geographic Channels air non-fiction and documentary programming on such topics as natural history, adventure, science, exploration and culture. The Nat Geo Wild channels air non-fiction and documentary programming featuring natural history. In July 2011, NGC Network launched Nat Geo Mundo, a Spanish-language national programming service airing non-fiction and documentary programming on topics similar to those featured on the National Geographic Channels. Fox International Channels (“FIC”). FIC operates, develops and distributes primarily factual and general entertainment channels in various countries in Europe, Latin America, Africa and Asia, including the Fox Channel, Fox Life, FX, SPEED, Utilisima (which is also distributed in the United States), Fox Crime, NEXT, 4 Table of Contents FOX Traveller, the Voyage Channel, FOX Sports, STAR World, STAR Movies (also known as Fox Movies Premium in certain countries) and Chinese language television programming targeted at Chinese-speaking audiences in Asia. These channels are distributed either in HD or in standard definition (“SD”) or in certain cases, in both HD and SD. FIC also owns a 52.2% interest in NGC Network International LLC and NGC Network Latin America LLC (collectively “NGC International”), with NGHT holding a 26.8% interest and a subsidiary of BSkyB holding a 21% interest. NGC International produces and distributes the National Geographic Channel in various international markets. NGC International also produces and distributes the National Geographic Channel HD, the Nat Geo Adventure channel (in both HD and SD), the Nat Geo Wild channel (in both HD and SD) and the Nat Geo Music channel in international markets. The National Geographic Channel is currently shown in 37 languages and in approximately 173 countries internationally, including the United States. FIC owns a 77.5% equity interest in LAPTV, a partnership that distributes nine premium pay television channels (Moviecity Premieres HD, Moviecity Premieres, Moviecity Action HD, Moviecity Action, Moviecity Family, Moviecity Hollywood HD, Moviecity Hollywood, Moviecity Classics and Moviecity Mundo and their multiplexes) and four basic television channels (The Film Zone HD, The Film Zone, Cinecanal and Cinecanal HD) in Latin America (excluding Brazil). Such channels primarily feature theatrical motion pictures of Twentieth Century Fox and three other studio partners in the English language with Spanish subtitles. FIC also owns a majority equity interest in Elite Sports Limited, a company that owns and distributes BabyTV, a 24-hour channel dedicated to infants and toddlers under three years old to over 100 countries, including the United States. In December 2011, the Company acquired the 67% equity interest in Fox Pan American Sports LLC (“FPAS”) that it did not already own for approximately $400 million. FPAS is an international sports programming and production entity, which owns and operates Fox Sports Latin America network, a Spanish and Portuguese-language sports network distributed to subscribers in certain Caribbean and Central and South American nations. Also as a result of this transaction, the Company now owns 100% of Fox Deportes, a Spanish-language sports programming service distributed in the United States. Fox Deportes (formerly known as Fox Sports en Español), has more than 2,100 hours of live and exclusive programming, including exclusive coverage of premiere soccer matches (such as Copa Santander Libertadores and Copa Bridgestone Sudamericana) and MLB, including All-Star, NLCS and World Series games. Fox Deportes reaches more than 20 million cable and satellite households in the United States, of which almost 6 million are U.S. Latino. FIC owns a 50% interest in Mundofox Broadcasting, LLC, a joint venture with RCN MF Holdings, Inc., a Latin American television network and production company. In August 2012, the joint venture launched Mundofox, a new Spanish-language broadcast television network targeted at the U.S. Hispanic market. Mundofox will feature original news and entertainment content as well as access to sporting events and programming. FIC also manages Channel [V] Thailand in which the Company owns a 49% interest. Channel [V] Thailand owns a Thai language music channel. FIC licenses its Channel [V] brand to a third party in Australia to operate a music channel. In addition, FIC has a joint venture with CJ E&M (formerly CJ Media), a Korean media conglomerate for the distribution of the tvN channel, a 24-hour general entertainment channel featuring Korean content, such as original dramas, variety shows, reality and lifestyle programs. STAR India. STAR India develops, produces and broadcasts 34 channels in eight languages, which are distributed primarily via satellite to local cable, internet protocol television (“IPTV”) and direct-to-home (“DTH”) operators for distribution throughout Asia, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, North America and parts of Africa to their subscribers. STAR India’s primary sources of programming for its channels include 5 Table of Contents original programming produced, commissioned or acquired by STAR India. STAR India also owns a Hindi film library comprised of approximately 1,286 titles, a South Indian languages film library comprised of approximately 2,544 titles, a Bengali film library comprised of approximately 41 titles, a Marathi film library comprised of approximately 129 titles, a Hindi television program library comprised of approximately 727 titles, a South Indian languages program library comprised of approximately 3,939 titles, a Bengali program library comprised of approximately 128 titles and a Marathi program library comprised of approximately 67 titles. STAR India’s channels include the flagship Hindi general entertainment channels STAR Plus and Life OK, the Hindi movie channels Star Gold and Movies OK, the English general entertainment channel Star World, the English movie channel Star Movies, the Bengali general entertainment channel STAR Jalsha, the Marathi general entertainment channel STAR Pravah and the South Indian languages general entertainment channels Asianet and Vijay TV. In April 2012, STAR India acquired media rights to the BCCI Domestic and International Cricket Series in India for the period from 2012 to 2018. In January 2009, the Company expanded into South India regional programming by forming Asianet Communications Limited, a joint venture with Asianet TV Holdings Private Limited to provide television services for South Indian audiences. The joint venture consists of the Company’s approximate 81% interest in the Tamil language channel Vijay and the Company’s approximate 75% interest in the Malayalam language channels Asianet and Asianet Plus, the Kannada language channel Suvarna and the Telugu language channel Sitara. The Company also owns an approximate 26% stake in Balaji Telefilms Limited (“Balaji”), which is one of the largest television content production companies in India, the shares of which are listed on The Stock Exchange, Mumbai and the National Stock Exchange of India. Balaji currently produces serials broadcast on general entertainment channels in India. The Company also holds an approximate 30% interest in Tata Sky Limited which owns and operates a DTH platform in India. The Company has a 50/50 joint venture, Star Den, with Den Networks Limited to perform channel placement services in India. In May 2011, Star Den entered into a 50/50 joint venture with Zee Turner Limited and Zee Entertainment Enterprises Limited (“ZEEL”) to distribute and market all channels owned by the Company and ZEEL, their respective affiliated channels and other third party channels in India, Nepal and Bhutan. The joint venture company, Media Pro Enterprises India Private Limited, commenced operations July 1, 2011. Middle East. The Company has an approximate 19% interest in Rotana Holding FZ-LLC (“Rotana”), which operates a diversified film, television, audio, advertising and entertainment business across the Middle East and North Africa. The Company also has an approximate 33% interest in Moby Group Holdings Limited (“MGH”). MGH operates television, radio, production and other media businesses in Afghanistan and also broadcasts Farsi language general entertainment programming across the Middle East under the “Farsi1” and “Zemzemeh” brands. ESPN STAR Sports. The Company owns a 50% interest in ESPN STAR Sports, with ESPN, Inc. owning the remainder. ESPN STAR Sports is the leading sports broadcaster in Asia and operates 25 channels in different languages. In June 2012, the Company entered into an agreement to acquire the remaining 50% interest in ESPN STAR Sports it did not already own. The acquisition is subject to regulatory clearances and other customary closing conditions. Phoenix. The Company owns an approximate 18% interest in Phoenix, a company listed on the Main Board of The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited. Phoenix owns and operates Chinese language general entertainment, movie and current affairs channels, all of which are targeted at Chinese audiences around the world and are primarily distributed on a free or an encrypted basis via pay television platforms in Asia and Europe and in the United States. Phoenix also operates a new media business which is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and an outdoor advertising business. 6 Table of Contents PT Visi Media Asia. The Company owns an approximate 6.7% interest in PT Visi Media Asia, a company which listed on the Indonesia Stock Exchange in November 2011. PT Visi Media Asia owns and operates television channels and an online news portal, all of which are targeted at audiences in Indonesia. Competition General. Cable network programming is a highly competitive business. Cable networks compete for distribution and, when distribution is obtained, for viewers and advertisers with free-to-air broadcast television, radio, print media, motion picture theaters, DVDs, Blu-ray high definition format discs (“Blu-rays”), Internet, wireless and portable viewing devices and other sources of information and entertainment. Important competitive factors include the prices charged for programming, the quantity, quality and variety of programming offered and the effectiveness of marketing efforts. FOX News. FOX News Channel’s primary competition comes from the cable networks CNN, HLN (CNN’s Headline News), and MSNBC. Fox Business Network’s primary competition comes from the cable networks CNBC and Bloomberg Television. FOX News Channel and FOX Business Network also compete for viewers and advertisers within a broad spectrum of television networks, including other non-news cable networks and free-to-air broadcast television networks. Sports programming operations. A number of basic and pay television programming services, such as ESPN and NBC Sports Network, as well as free-to-air stations and broadcast networks, provide programming that also targets the FSN RSNs’ audience. FSN is the leading programming service distributing a full range of sports programming on both a national and regional level. On a national level, FSN’s primary competitor is ESPN and, to a lesser extent, ESPN2, NBC Sports Network and CBS Sports Net. In regional markets, the FSN RSNs compete with other regional sports networks, including those operated by team owners, cable television systems, local broadcast television stations and other sports programming providers and distributors. In addition, the FSN RSNs and FSN compete, to varying degrees, for sports programming rights. The FSN RSNs compete for local and regional rights with local broadcast television stations, other local and regional sports networks, including sports networks launched by team owners, and distribution outlets, such as cable television systems. FSN competes for national rights principally with a number of national cable services that specialize in or carry sports programming, including sports networks launched by the leagues and conferences, and television “superstations” that distribute sports. Independent syndicators also compete by acquiring and reselling such rights nationally, regionally and locally. Distribution outlets, such as cable television systems, sometimes contract directly with the sports teams in their service area for the right to distribute a number of those teams’ games on their systems. In certain markets, the owners of distribution outlets, such as cable television systems, also own one or more of the professional teams in the region, increasing their ability to launch competing networks and also limiting the professional sports rights available for acquisition by FSN RSNs. FX. FX faces competition from a number of basic cable and pay television programming services, such as USA, TNT, Spike TV, Home Box Office, Inc. (“HBO”) and Showtime Networks Inc. (“Showtime”), as well as free-to-air broadcast networks that provide programming that targets the same viewing audience as FX. FX also faces competition from these programming services in the acquisition of distribution rights to movie and series programming. National Geographic U.S. National Geographic Channel and Nat Geo Wild face competition for viewers and advertising from a number of basic cable and broadcast television channels, such as Discovery Channel, History Channel, Animal Planet, Travel Channel, Science Channel, History International, Military Channel, Biography and Tru TV, as well as free-to-air broadcast networks and sports, news and general entertainment networks which have acquired or produced competing programming. International. Internationally, the Company’s cable businesses compete with various local and foreign television services providers and distribution networks for audiences, content acquisition and distribution platforms. 7 Table of Contents STAR India. In India, the pay television broadcasting industry has several participants, and STAR India’s entertainment channels compete with both pay and free-to-air channels since they are delivered by common cable. STAR India also competes in India to acquire Hindi and other Indian languages film and programming rights, and internationally for English film and programming rights. Filmed Entertainment The Company is engaged in the production and acquisition of live-action and animated motion pictures for distribution and licensing in all formats in all entertainment media worldwide, and the production and licensing of television programming worldwide. Feature Film Production and Distribution One of the world’s largest producers and distributors of motion pictures, Fox Filmed Entertainment (“FFE”) produces, acquires and distributes motion pictures throughout the world under a variety of arrangements. During fiscal 2012, FFE placed 25 motion pictures in general release in the United States. The motion pictures of FFE are produced and/or distributed by the following units of FFE: Twentieth Century Fox and Fox 2000, which produce and acquire motion pictures for mainstream audiences; Fox Searchlight Pictures, which produces and acquires specialized motion pictures; and Twentieth Century Fox Animation, which produces feature length animated motion pictures. In addition, Fox International Productions, Inc. co-produces, co-finances and acquires local-language motion pictures for distribution outside the United States. The motion pictures produced and/or distributed by FFE in the United States and international territories in fiscal 2012 included Rise of the Planet of the Apes, Alvin and the Chipmunks: Chipwrecked!, Chronicle, Titanic 3D, Prometheus, The Descendants and The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel. FFE has already released or currently plans to release approximately 25 motion pictures in the United States in fiscal 2013, including Ice Age: Continental Drift, The Watch, Taken 2, Life of Pi, Parental Guidance, A Good Day to Die Hard, Epic, Hitchcock and Trance. Pursuant to an agreement with Monarchy Enterprises Holdings B.V. (“MEH”), the parent company of New Regency in which the Company has a 20% interest, and certain of MEH’s subsidiaries, FFE distributes certain New Regency films and all films co-financed by FFE and New Regency in all media worldwide, excluding a number of international territories with respect to television rights. Among its fiscal 2013 releases, FFE currently expects to distribute two New Regency films. Motion picture companies, such as FFE, typically seek to generate revenues from various distribution channels. FFE derives its worldwide motion picture revenues primarily from four basic sources (set forth in general chronology of exploitation): (i) distribution of motion pictures for theatrical exhibition in the United States and Canada and markets outside of the United States and Canada (“international” markets); (ii) distribution of motion pictures in various home media formats, including electronic distribution; (iii) distribution of motion pictures for exhibition on premium pay, subscription video-on-demand, pay-per-view and video-on-demand programming services; and (iv) distribution of motion pictures for exhibition on free television networks, other broadcast program services, independent television stations and basic cable programming services, including certain services which are affiliates of the Company. The Company does not always have rights in all media of exhibition to all motion pictures that it releases, and does not necessarily distribute a given motion picture in all of the foregoing media in all markets. The Company believes that the pre-release marketing of a feature film is an integral part of its motion picture distribution strategy and generally begins marketing efforts three to six months in advance of a film’s release date in any given territory. The Company markets and distributes its films worldwide principally through its own distribution and marketing companies. Through Twentieth Century Fox Home Entertainment LLC, the Company distributes motion pictures and other programming produced by units of FFE, its affiliates and other producers in the United States, Canada and international markets in all home media formats, including the sale and rental of DVDs and Blu-rays. In fiscal 8 Table of Contents 2012, the domestic home entertainment division released or re-released approximately 1,162 produced and acquired titles, including 31 new FFE film releases, approximately 820 catalog titles and approximately 311 television and non-theatrical titles. In international markets, the Company distributed, produced and acquired titles both directly and through foreign distribution channels, with approximately 926 releases in fiscal 2012, including approximately 33 new FFE film releases, approximately 684 catalog titles and approximately 209 television and non-theatrical releases. In fiscal 2012, the Company continued its worldwide home video distribution arrangement with Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer (“MGM”), releasing approximately 995 MGM home entertainment theatrical, catalog and television programs domestically and 664 internationally. The Company also continued its domestic home video distribution arrangements with Lions Gate (U.S. only) and Anchor Bay Entertainment, LLC (“Anchor Bay”) (U.S. and Canada), releasing approximately 1,520 Lions Gate home entertainment theatrical, catalog and television programs and approximately 566 Anchor Bay home entertainment theatrical, catalog and television programs. During fiscal 2012, the domestic home entertainment division released 323 Blu-ray titles, including 24 new FFE film releases, 246 catalog titles and 53 television and non-theatrical releases. In international markets, the Company released 264 Blu-ray titles, including 27 new FFE film releases and 237 catalog titles. The Company also distributed 161 Blu-ray titles from MGM domestically and 102 titles internationally, 253 Blu-ray titles from Lions Gate domestically, and 149 Blu-ray titles from Anchor Bay domestically. Units of FFE license motion pictures and other programs in the United States and international markets to various third party and certain affiliated subscription pay television, subscription video-on-demand, pay-per-view, video-on-demand and electronic sell-through services as well as to free television networks and basic cable programming services for distribution by means of various media, which may include direct broadcast satellite (“DBS”), cable television systems and the Internet. The license agreements reflecting the subscription pay television arrangements generally provide for a specified number of exhibitions of the program during a fixed term in exchange for a license fee that is based on a variety of factors, including the box office performance of each program and the number of subscribers to the service or system. Among third party license arrangements that units of FFE have in place in the United States for subscription pay television exhibition of motion pictures is an exclusive license agreement with HBO, providing for the licensing of films initially released for theatrical exhibition. Units of FFE also license programming to subscription video-on-demand services in the United States. Such licenses enable the consumer to view individual programming selected by the viewer for a subscription fee, typically on a monthly basis. The license agreements reflecting the pay-per-view and video-on-demand services generally provide for a license fee based on a percentage of the licensee’s gross receipts from the exhibition of the program, and in some cases, a guaranteed minimum fee. In addition, these agreements generally provide for a minimum number of scheduled pay-per-view exhibitions per program and for continuous video-on-demand availability of each program to consumers during a fixed period. Units of FFE license motion pictures and other programs to third parties for distribution for electronic sell-through which enables consumers to acquire the right to retain such programs on a permanent basis. In international markets, units of FFE license motion pictures and other programming to subscription pay television, subscription video-on-demand, pay-per-view, video-on-demand and electronic sell-through services operated by leading third parties, as well as to such services operated by various affiliated entities. In addition, units of FFE license motion pictures in international markets for exhibition on free television networks, including basic cable programming services, both to independent third party broadcasters as well as to services operated by affiliated entities of the Company. Competition. Motion picture production and distribution are highly competitive businesses. The Company competes with other film studios, independent production companies and others for the acquisition of artistic properties, the services of creative and technical personnel, exhibition outlets and the public’s interest in its products. The number of motion pictures released by the Company’s competitors, particularly the other major film studios, in any given period may create an oversupply of product in the market, which may reduce the Company’s shares of gross box office admissions and may make it more difficult for the Company’s motion pictures to succeed. The commercial success of the motion pictures produced and/or distributed by the Company is affected substantially by the public’s unpredictable response to them. The competitive risks affecting the 9 Table of Contents Company’s home entertainment business include the number of home entertainment titles released by the Company’s competitors that may create an oversupply of product in the market, competition among home media formats, such as DVDs and Blu-rays, and other methods of distribution, such as electronic sell-through and video-on-demand services. The Company faces ongoing risks associated with controlling unauthorized copying and distribution of the Company’s programs. For a further discussion of issues relating to unauthorized copying and distribution of the Company’s programs, see “—Intellectual Property.” Television Programming, Production and Distribution Twentieth Century Fox Television (“TCFTV”). During fiscal 2012, TCFTV produced television programs for the FOX Broadcasting Company (“FOX”), FX Networks, LLC (“FX”), ABC Television Network (“ABC”), CBS Broadcasting, Inc. (“CBS”), NBC Television Network (“NBC”), Comedy Partners (“Comedy Central”), Showtime and A&E Network. TCFTV currently produces, or has orders to produce, episodes of the following television series: American Dad, Ben and Kate, Bob’s Burgers, Bones, The Cleveland Show, Family Guy, Glee, The Goodwin Games, New Girl, Raising Hope, The Simpsons and Touch for FOX; Sons of Anarchy and American Horror Story for FX; Don’t Trust the B—in Apartment 23, How to Live With Your Parents for the Rest of Your Life, Last Man Standing and Modern Family for ABC; 1600 Penn and The New Normal for NBC; How I Met Your Mother for CBS; Brickleberry and Futurama for Comedy Central; Arrested Development for Netflix; Homeland for Showtime and Out There for Independent Film Channel. Generally, a television network or cable network will license a specified number of episodes for exhibition during the license period. All other distribution rights, including international and off-network syndication rights, are typically retained by TCFTV, utilized by other units of the Company or sold to third parties. Television programs generally are produced under contracts that provide for license fees that may cover only a portion of the anticipated production costs. As these costs have increased in recent years, the resulting deficit between production costs and license fees for domestic first-run programming also has increased. Therefore, additional licensing is often critical to the financial success of a series. Successful U.S. network television series are typically (i) licensed for first-run exhibition in international markets, (ii) released in DVD and Blu-ray box sets, (iii) licensed for subscription video-on-demand, video-on-demand and pay-per-view services, (iv) licensed for off-network exhibition in the United States (including in syndication and to cable programmers), (v) licensed for further television exhibition in international markets and (vi) made available for electronic sell-through and streaming, including individual episodes and full series. Typically, a series must be broadcast for at least three to four television seasons for there to be a sufficient number of episodes to offer the series in syndication or to cable and DBS programmers in the United States. The decision of a television network to continue a series through an entire television season or to renew a series for another television season depends largely on the series’ audience ratings. Twentieth Television. Twentieth Television licenses both television programming and feature films for domestic syndication to television stations and basic cable services in the United States. Twentieth Television distributes a program portfolio that includes the Company’s library of television and film assets, and first-run programming produced by its production companies for sales to local stations, including stations owned and operated by the Company, as well as to basic cable networks. First-run programs distributed by Twentieth Television include: the court shows Divorce Court and Judge Alex and, premiering in September 2012, The Ricki Lake Show and Dish Nation. Twentieth Television derives revenue from off-network, theatrical and first-run program sales in the form of cash license fees paid by both broadcast and cable licensees, and from the sales of national advertising units retained by Twentieth Television in its programs. Twentieth Television licenses such shows as Modern Family, It’s Always Sunny in Philadelphia, Burn Notice, Family Guy, The Simpsons, Bones, How I Met Your Mother, The Cleveland Show, and Glee to cable and broadcast networks. Twentieth Television also manages and distributes the long running series COPS and sells national advertising on behalf of other third party syndicators. 10 Table of Contents Fox Television Studios (“FtvS”). FtvS is a program supplier to the major U.S. and international broadcast and cable networks. FtvS is currently producing the series Burn Notice and White Collar for USA Network, The Glades for A&E, The Killing for AMC, and The Great Escape for TNT, as well as the television movies Home Alone: The Holiday Heist for ABC Family and Prosecuting Casey Anthony for Lifetime. Shine Limited (“Shine”). Shine is an international television production and distribution group with 28 production companies across 12 countries creating and exploiting scripted and non-scripted content in the global marketplace. Shine companies include award-winning genre specialists such as U.K.-based Kudos (drama), Dragonfly (factual), Princess Productions (entertainment and multi-genre) and Shine TV (factual and factual entertainment); U.S. producer Shine America (formerly Reveille); and Metronome Film & Television, the Nordic region’s largest production group. Shine International, the international distribution arm, was responsible for distributing a catalogue of more than 3,500 hours of broadcast content in fiscal 2012. Shine has also established businesses in Germany, France, Australia, Spain and Portugal. Shine has recently enhanced its digital and direct to consumer business with the additions of the social gaming producer Bossa Studios and the online original content producers, ChannelFlip Media, as well as expanded into the children’s genre. Internationally renowned shows from the Shine group include MasterChef, The Biggest Loser, One Born Every Minute, Minute to Win It and fantasy drama Merlin. Competition. Similar to motion picture production and distribution, production and distribution of television programming is extremely competitive. The Company competes with other film studios, independent production companies and others for the acquisition of artistic properties, the services of creative and technical personnel, exhibition outlets and the public’s interest in its products. In addition, television networks have affiliated production companies from which they are increasingly obtaining their programming, which has reduced the demand for programming from other non-affiliated parties. Motion Picture and Television Library The Company’s motion picture and television library (the “Fox Library”) consists of varying rights to several thousand previously released motion pictures and many well-known television programs. Motion pictures in the Fox Library include many successful and well-known titles, such as The Sound of Music, Mrs. Doubtfire, Dr. Dolittle, Home Alone, the Star Wars series, the X-Men series, Independence Day, The Day After Tomorrow, the Ice Age series, Sideways, Walk the Line, The Devil Wears Prada, Little Miss Sunshine, the Night at the Museum series, the Alvin and the Chipmunks series, Slumdog Millionaire and Taken, as well as five of the top 20 domestic box office grossing films of all time, which are Avatar, Titanic (together with Paramount Pictures Corporation), Star Wars Episode IV: A New Hope, Star Wars Episode I: The Phantom Menace and Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith. The Fox Library contains varying rights to many television series and made-for-television motion pictures. The television programming in the Fox Library consists of such classic series as 24, King of the Hill, Prison Break, Boston Legal, My Name is Earl, The Mary Tyler Moore Show, M*A*S*H, Hill Street Blues, Doogie Howser, M.D., L.A. Law, The Wonder Years, The Practice, Ally McBeal, Angel, Dharma & Greg, In Living Color, The X-Files, Buffy the Vampire Slayer and NYPD Blue, as well as prior seasons of such current series as The Simpsons, Bones, Family Guy, The Cleveland Show, Glee, Modern Family, Futurama, How I Met Your Mother, Sons of Anarchy, American Dad and Arrested Development. Television The Company is engaged in the operation of broadcast television stations and the broadcasting of network programming in the United States. 11 Table of Contents Fox Television Stations Fox Television Stations, Inc. (“Fox Television Stations”) owns and operates 27 full power stations, including stations located in nine of the top ten largest designated market areas (“DMAs”). Fox Television Stations owns and operates duopolies in nine DMAs, including the three largest DMAs, New York, Los Angeles and Chicago. Of the 27 full power stations, 17 stations are affiliates of FOX (“FOX Affiliates”). For a description of the programming offered to FOX Affiliates, see “—FOX Broadcasting Company.” In addition, Fox Television Stations owns and operates 10 stations affiliated with Master Distribution Service, Inc. (“MyNetworkTV”). The following table lists certain information about each of the television stations owned and operated by Fox Television Stations. Unless otherwise noted, all stations are FOX Affiliates. Fox Television Stations DMA/Rank Station DigitalChannel Type Percentage of U.S.TelevisionHouseholdsReached (1) New York, NY 1 WNYW 44 (5 ) UHF 6.4 % WWOR (2) 38 (9 ) UHF Los Angeles, CA 2 KTTV 11 (11 ) VHF 4.9 % KCOP (2) 13 (13 ) VHF Chicago, IL 3 WFLD 31 (32 ) UHF 3.0 % WPWR (2) 51 (50 ) UHF Philadelphia, PA 4 WTXF 42 (29 ) UHF 2.6 % Dallas, TX 5 KDFW 35 (4 ) UHF 2.2 % KDFI (2) 36 (27 ) UHF Boston, MA 7 WFXT 31 (25 ) UHF 2.1 % Washington, DC 8 WTTG 36 (5 ) UHF 2.1 % WDCA (2) 35 (20 ) UHF Atlanta, GA 9 WAGA 27 (5 ) UHF 2.0 % Houston, TX 10 KRIV 26 (26 ) UHF 1.9 % KTXH (2) 19 (20 ) UHF Detroit, MI 11 WJBK 7 (2 ) VHF 1.6 % Phoenix, AZ 13 KSAZ 10 (10 ) VHF 1.6 % KUTP (2) 26 (45 ) UHF Tampa, FL 14 WTVT 12 (13 ) VHF 1.6 % Minneapolis, MN (3) 15 KMSP 9 (9 ) VHF 1.5 % WFTC (2) 29 (29 ) UHF Orlando, FL 19 WOFL 22 (35 ) UHF 1.3 % WRBW (2) 41 (65 ) UHF Baltimore, MD 27 WUTB (2) 41 (24 ) UHF 1.0 % Austin, TX 47 KTBC 7 (7 ) VHF 0.6 % Memphis, TN 49 WHBQ 13 (13 ) VHF 0.6 % Gainesville, FL 163 WOGX 31 (51 ) UHF 0.1 % TOTAL 37.1 % Source: Nielsen Media Research, January 2012 (1) VHF television stations transmit on Channels 2 through 13 and UHF television stations on Channels 14 through 51. The Federal Communications Commission (the “FCC”) applies a discount (the “UHF Discount”) which attributes only 50% of the television households in a local television market to the 12 Table of Contents audience reach of a UHF television station for purposes of calculating whether that station’s owner complies with the national station ownership cap imposed by FCC regulations and by statute; in making this calculation, only the station’s actual (digital) broadcast channel is considered. In addition, the coverage of two commonly owned stations in the same market is counted only once. The percentages listed are rounded and do not take into account the UHF Discount. For more information regarding the FCC’s national station ownership cap, see “Government Regulation—Television” in this Annual Report. (2) MyNetworkTV affiliate. (3) The Company also owns and operates full power station KFTC, Channel 26, Bemidji, MN as a satellite station of WFTC, Channel 29, Minneapolis, MN. Station KFTC is in addition to the 27 full power stations described in this section. FOX Broadcasting Company (“FOX”) FOX has 205 FOX Affiliates, including the 17 stations owned and operated by the Company, which reach approximately 99% of all U.S. television households. In general, each week FOX regularly delivers to its affiliates 15 hours of prime-time programming and 90 minutes of late-night programming on Saturday. FOX’s prime-time programming features such series as New Girl, Raising Hope, The Simpsons, Bones, Fringe and Glee; unscripted series such as American Idol, The X Factor and So You Think You Can Dance; and various specials. In addition, a significant component of FOX’s programming consists of sports programming, with FOX providing to its affiliates live coverage (including post-season) of the National Football Conference of the National Football League (the “NFL”) and MLB, as well as live coverage of the Sprint Cup Series of the NASCAR. For the upcoming 2013 season, FOX has also secured rights to college football. FOX also airs a two-hour block of direct response programming on Saturday mornings provided by Worldlink Ventures (“Worldlink”), a media sales firm. FOX’s agreement with Worldlink extends through the 2013-2014 broadcast season. FOX’s prime-time line-up is intended to appeal primarily to target audiences of 18 to 49-year old adults, the demographic group that advertisers seek to reach most often. During the 2011-2012 traditional September to May broadcast season, FOX ranked first in prime-time programming based on viewership of adults ages 18 to 49 (based on Live+7 ratings, FOX had a 3.2 rating and a 9 share, CBS had a 3.0 rating and an 8 share, ABC had a 2.5 rating and a 7 share and NBC had a 2.5 rating and a 7 share). The median age of the FOX viewer is 41 years, as compared to 49 years for NBC, 50 years for ABC and 55 years for CBS. FOX obtains programming from major television studios and independent television production companies pursuant to license agreements. The terms of those agreements generally provide FOX with the right to broadcast a television series for a minimum of four seasons. National sports programming, such as the NFL, MLB, college football and NASCAR programming, is obtained under license agreements with professional or collegiate sports leagues or organizations. FOX’s current licenses with the NFL, MLB, college football and NASCAR extend until the 2022 NFL season, the 2013 MLB season, the 2023 college football season and the 2014 NASCAR season. Additionally, in fiscal 2012, FOX acquired the rights to air FIFA Men’s and Women’s World Cup events starting in 2015, with certain matches during the term scheduled to air on Fox Soccer Channel, as well as on other FOX cable networks. FOX provides programming to the FOX Affiliates in accordance with affiliation agreements of varying durations, which grant to each affiliate the right to broadcast network television programming on the affiliated station. Such agreements typically run three or more years and have staggered expiration dates. These affiliation agreements generally require FOX Affiliates to carry FOX programming in all time periods in which FOX programming is offered to those affiliates, subject to certain exceptions stated in the affiliation agreements. 13 Table of Contents MyNetworkTV At the beginning of the 2009-2010 television season, MyNetworkTV transitioned to a new programming distribution service, Master Distribution Service, Inc., distributing two hours per night of original and off- network programming from Twentieth Television and other third party syndicators to its affiliates. As of June 30, 2012, MyNetworkTV had 181 affiliates, including 10 stations owned and operated by the Company, reaching approximately 97% of U.S. households. Competition. The network television broadcasting business is highly competitive. FOX and MyNetworkTV compete with other broadcast networks, such as ABC, NBC, CBS and The CW Television Network, independent television stations, cable and DBS program services, as well as other media, including DVDs, Blu-rays, digital video recorders (“DVR”), video games, print and the Internet for audiences, programming and, in the case of FOX, advertising revenues. In addition, FOX and MyNetworkTV compete with other broadcast networks and other programming distribution services to secure affiliations with independently owned television stations in markets across the United States. ABC, NBC and CBS each broadcasts a significantly greater number of hours of programming than FOX and, accordingly, may be able to designate or change time periods in which programming is to be broadcast with greater flexibility than FOX. In addition, future technological developments may affect competition within the television marketplace. Each of the stations owned and operated by Fox Television Stations also competes for advertising revenues with other television stations and radio and cable systems in its respective market area and with other advertising media, such as newspapers, magazines, outdoor advertising, direct mail and Internet websites. All of the stations owned and operated by Fox Television Stations are located in highly competitive markets. Additional elements that are material to the competitive position of each of the television stations include management experience, authorized power and assigned frequency of that station. Competition for sales of broadcast advertising time is based primarily on the anticipated and actually delivered size and demographic characteristics of audiences as determined by various rating services, price, the time of day when the advertising is to be broadcast, competition from the other broadcast networks, cable television systems, DBS services and other media and general economic conditions. Competition for audiences is based primarily on the selection of programming, the acceptance of which is dependent on the reaction of the viewing public, which is often difficult to predict. Direct Broadcast Satellite Television The Company engages in the direct broadcast satellite business through its subsidiary, SKY Italia. The Company also owns significant equity interests in BSkyB and Sky Deutschland AG (“Sky Deutschland”), which are engaged in the DBS business (for a description of the businesses of these equity interests, please see discussion under heading “Equity Interests”). SKY Italia SKY Italia currently distributes more than 180 channels of basic, premium and pay-per-view programming services via satellite and broadband directly to subscribers in Italy. This programming includes exclusive rights to popular sporting events, newly-released movies and SKY Italia’s original programming, such as SKY TG 24, Italy’s first 24-hour news channel. As of June 30, 2012, SKY Italia had approximately 4.90 million subscribers. Competition. SKY Italia’s competition includes companies that offer video, audio, interactive programming, telephony, data and other information and entertainment services, including broadband Internet providers, digital terrestrial transmission (“DTT”) services, wireless companies and companies that are developing new media technologies. Under a commitment made to the European Commission (the “EC”), through December 31, 2011, SKY Italia was required to wholesale its premium programming, to limit the length and exclusivity of certain of its premium programming contracts and to provide third parties with access to the SKY Italia platform. In addition, SKY Italia had been prohibited from owning a DTT frequency or providing a pay television DTT offer. 14 Table of Contents Publishing The Company is engaged in the publishing business, primarily through its subsidiaries News International, News Limited, Dow Jones, The New York Post, The Daily, HarperCollins Publishers and News America Marketing Group. The Company evaluates these businesses collectively as a result of evolving trends in the overall publishing industry including digital distribution. News International News International publishes The Times, The Sunday Times, The Sun and, until July 2011, The News of the World in the United Kingdom and Ireland. Sales of these four newspapers account for approximately one-third of all national newspapers sold in the United Kingdom. Both The Times, a daily published Monday through Saturday, and The Sunday Times, are leading quality newspapers. The Sun, published each morning Monday through Saturday, and on Sunday as of February 25, 2012, is a popular, mass market newspaper, as was The News of the World, which until July 10, 2011 was published on Sunday. The average paid circulation for each of these national newspapers for the six months ended June 30, 2012 was approximately: The Times—397,395; The Sunday Times—935,235; The Sun—2,622,123; and The Sun on Sunday—2,474,001. News International recognizes the challenges to its traditional business model from new technology and considers itself a multi-platform news provider, continually investing in its digital products. As readers use these new channels to access content, News International recognizes the importance of maximizing revenues from these new channels, both in terms of paid-for content and new advertising models. On July 7, 2011, News International announced that July 10, 2011 would be the last issue of The News of the World after allegations of phone hacking and inappropriate payments to public officials. The printing of News International’s national newspapers (except Saturday and Sunday supplements) takes place principally in its printing facilities located in England, Scotland and Ireland. News International also publishes The Times Literary Supplement, a weekly literary review. News Limited News Limited is the largest newspaper publisher in Australia by readership and circulation, owning approximately 142 daily, Sunday, weekly, bi-weekly and tri-weekly newspapers, of which three are free commuter titles and 98 are suburban publications (including 16 of which News Limited has a 50% interest). News Limited publishes the only nationally distributed general interest newspaper in Australia, the leading metropolitan newspapers in each of the major Australian cities of Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart and Darwin and the leading suburban newspapers in the suburbs of Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane and Perth. News Limited’s daily and Sunday newspapers account for more than 68% of the total circulation of all daily and Sunday newspapers (excluding suburban and regional newspapers) published in Australia. News Limited’s principal daily newspapers in Australia are: The Australian; The Daily Telegraph, published in Sydney; the Herald Sun, published in Melbourne; The Courier-Mail, published in Brisbane; The Advertiser, published in Adelaide; The Mercury, published in Hobart; and the Northern Territory News, published in Darwin. The Australian, which is Australia’s only general interest national daily newspaper, is printed in seven cities and distributed nationwide. News Limited’s other principal daily newspapers in Australia are mass circulation, regional newspapers with broad-based readerships and are published and distributed regionally. The average Monday to Friday paid circulation of each of these daily newspapers for the nine months ended March 31, 2012 was approximately as follows: The Australian—131,000; The Daily Telegraph—345,000; the Herald Sun—475,000; The Courier-Mail—192,000; The Advertiser—176,000; The Mercury—42,000; and the Northern Territory News—19,000. The average Saturday paid circulation of each of these daily newspapers 15 Table of Contents for the nine months ended March 31, 2012 was approximately as follows: The Weekend Australian—293,000; The Daily Telegraph—324,000; the Herald Sun—472,000; The Courier-Mail—261,000; The Advertiser—235,000; The Mercury—58,000; and the Northern Territory News—29,000. News Limited’s principal Sunday newspapers in Australia are: The Sunday Telegraph, published in Sydney; the Sunday Herald Sun, published in Melbourne; The Sunday Mail, published in Brisbane; the Sunday Mail, published in Adelaide; The Sunday Times, published in Perth; the Sunday Tasmanian, published in Hobart; and the Sunday Territorian, published in Darwin. All these newspapers are mass circulation, metropolitan Sunday newspapers with broad-based readerships reflecting the diversity of the populations of the cities in which they are published. The average paid circulation of each of these Sunday newspapers for the nine months ended March 31, 2012 was approximately as follows: The Sunday Telegraph—612,000; the Sunday Herald Sun—550,000; The Sunday Mail (Brisbane)—469,000; the Sunday Mail (Adelaide)—279,000; The Sunday Times—282,000; the Sunday Tasmanian—55,000; and the Sunday Territorian—21,000. The other newspapers that News Limited owns and publishes in Australia are distributed to a wide range of readers in urban, suburban and rural areas and are principally weekly publications. The majority of such newspapers are free-distribution suburban publications. In the Sydney suburban markets, News Limited owns 21 weekly newspapers; in Melbourne, 33 weekly newspapers; in Brisbane, 17 weekly newspapers; in Adelaide, 11 weekly newspapers; and in Perth, News Limited’s 50% owned suburban group publishes 16 weekly newspapers. The aggregate average weekly circulations of these suburban newspapers for the six months ended March 31, 2012 was approximately 4,956,000 homes. In addition to these newspapers, News Limited also publishes two other monthly publications with an average circulation for the six months ended March 31, 2012 of approximately 111,000 homes. News Limited’s suburban newspapers are leading publications in terms of advertising and circulation in each of their respective markets. News Limited’s other newspapers in Australia are regional newspapers, circulating throughout broader, less densely populated areas. In line with shifting consumer preferences, News Limited continues to invest in a variety of digital products and content across multiple platforms. In addition, News Limited has launched paid-for digital platforms across a number of its major mastheads including the introduction of paywalls around The Australian and The Herald Sun websites. Except for 30 of its suburban newspapers, News Limited’s Australian newspapers are produced and printed in facilities owned by the Company. Dow Jones Dow Jones is a global provider of news and business information, with newspaper, newswire, website, mobile, newsletter, magazine, database, conference, radio and video businesses. Dow Jones offers products targeting individual consumer and business and institutional customers, including The Wall Street Journal, Dow Jones Newswires, Factiva, Barron’s, MarketWatch, SmartMoney, Financial News and other products. Products targeting business and institutional customers, including Dow Jones Newswires and Factiva, combine news and information with technology and tools designed to inform decisions and to aid awareness, research and understanding. The Dow Jones Local Media business publishes community newspapers, websites and other products in seven U.S. states. The Wall Street Journal. The Wall Street Journal is available in print, online at WSJ.com, and across multiple mobile and tablet devices. The Wall Street Journal is the leading circulation daily newspaper in the United States, with total average print and digital circulation in fiscal 2012 of more than 2.0 million based on Audit Bureau of Circulations data. WSJ.com, which offers both free and premium content, averaged more than 34 million visitors per month during fiscal 2012 according to Adobe Omniture. The Wall Street Journal is printed at plants around the United States, including nine owned by the Company. The Wall Street Journal also publishes print editions in Europe and Asia and WSJ.com includes local language editions in Chinese, Japanese, German, Spanish and Portuguese. 16 Table of Contents Barron’s. Barron’s is available in print, online at Barrons.com, and on mobile devices. Barron’s caters to financial professionals, individual investors and others interested in financial markets. Its print edition is published weekly. In fiscal 2012, Barron’s had an average paid weekly circulation of more than 300,000 based on Audit Bureau of Circulations data and Barrons.com had more than 160,000 paid subscribers. Barron’s is printed at plants around the United States, including at nine owned by the Company. SmartMoney. SmartMoney, the personal finance magazine from The Wall Street Journal, is available online at SmartMoney.com and on mobile devices. In June 2012, the Company announced it would cease production of SmartMoney’s print edition after the September 2012 issue. In addition to SmartMoney.com, all content and tools from SmartMoney.com will also be available on an expanded co-branded personal finance section on MarketWatch.com. In fiscal 2012, SmartMoney had average monthly paid circulation of more than 800,000, based on Audit Bureau of Circulations data. The Wall Street Journal Digital Network (“WSJDN”). WSJDN comprises business and financial news websites and mobile applications. In addition to WSJ.com, Barrons.com and SmartMoney.com, discussed above, WSJDN includes MarketWatch, AllThingsD, WSJ Live and related services. WSJDN had more than 1.3 million paid subscribers as of June 30, 2012 and, during fiscal 2012, averaged more than 54 million visitors per month with more than 540 million page views according to Adobe Omniture. MarketWatch comprises an investing and financial news site targeting active investors, and averaged 14 million visitors per month during fiscal 2012 according to Adobe Omniture. AllThingsD is a personal technology site that features breaking technology news, in-depth coverage of Silicon Valley and the media industry, and product reviews and analysis. WSJ Live is a video website enabling all users from across WSJDN to watch and share videos from a central platform. Factiva. Factiva provides news and business information with search and discovery technology and tools to assist customers with research, awareness and decision-making. Factiva had nearly 1.9 million contracted users worldwide as of June 30, 2012. Dow Jones Newswires. Dow Jones Newswires is a premier provider of real-time business news and information to financial professionals and online investors around the world via terminals, portals and intranet sites with hundreds of thousands of financial professionals and millions of online investors relying on this information each trading day. It publishes over 20,000 news items in multiple languages each day, including breaking news, analysis, commentary and statistical data. Dow Jones Local Media. The Dow Jones Local Media business publishes community-focused print publications—including eight general interest daily newspapers—and related local websites in California, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New York, Oregon and Pennsylvania. In fiscal 2012, average print and digital circulation for these dailies was more than 188,000 with Sunday print and digital circulation of over 238,000. The Dow Jones Local Media business also publishes 13 weekly newspapers, performs commercial printing at its five printing locations and offers other products and services. New York Post The New York Post (the “Post”) is a mass circulation, metropolitan morning newspaper published seven days a week and primarily distributed in the New York metropolitan area, the Northeast, Florida and California. For the six month period ended March 31, 2012, average weekday circulation, including digital editions, was approximately 555,000. The Company prints the Post in a printing facility in the Bronx, New York and uses third party printers in its other markets in the United States. As readers use new distribution channels to access content, the Post continues to invest in its digital platforms and to seek to maximize revenues through paid-for content and new advertising models. The Company’s Community Newspaper Group also owns several local newspapers and other publications distributed in the New York metropolitan area. 17 Table of Contents The Daily The Daily is a first-of-its-kind daily national news publication built exclusively as an application for tablet and mobile computing devices. The Daily is a subscription-based news product, published daily. The Daily launched on the iPad in February 2011 and as of June 30, 2012 has been downloaded more than 2 million times from the iTunes App Store. The Daily is available for iPad and iPhone and select Android tablet devices. HarperCollins Publishers HarperCollins Publishers (“HarperCollins”) is engaged in English language book publishing on a worldwide basis and is one of the world’s largest English language book publishers. HarperCollins’ principal businesses are HarperCollins Publishers LLC (“HarperCollins U.S.”), headquartered in New York, HarperCollins Publishers Limited, headquartered in London, and The Zondervan Corporation LLC, headquartered in Grand Rapids, Michigan. HarperCollins primarily publishes fiction and non-fiction, including religious books, for the general consumer. In the United Kingdom, HarperCollins publishes some titles for the educational market as well. During fiscal 2012, HarperCollins U.S. had 144 titles on the New York Times bestseller list, with 17 titles hitting number one, including American Sniper by Chris Kyle with Scott McEwen and Jim DeFelice, The Pioneer Woman Cooks: Food from My Frontier by Ree Drummond, Act Like a Lady, Think Like a Man by Steve Harvey, The Capture of the Earl of Glencrae by Stephanie Laurens, Loving by Karen Kingsbury, Divergent by Veronica Roth, If You Give a Dog a Donut by Laura Numeroff, Pete the Cat and His Four Groovy Buttons by Eric Litwin, Insurgent by Veronica Roth, Pete the Cat: Rocking in My School Shoes by Eric Litwin, The Night Before Christmas by Clement C. Moore, The Power of Six by Pittacus Lore, Every Thing On It by Shel Silverstein, Pinkalicious and the Pink Pumpkin by Victoria Kann, Fancy Nancy and the Mermaid Ballet by Jane O’Connor, One Direction: Dare to Dream by One Direction, and The Fame Game by Lauren Conrad. In October 2011, HarperCollins entered into an agreement to acquire Thomas Nelson, Inc., a leading trade publisher providing multiple forms of inspirational Christian content. The Company completed the acquisition in July 2012. News America Marketing Group News America Marketing Group (“NAMG”) publishes free-standing insert publications and provides in-store marketing products and services. NAMG is one of the two largest publishers of free-standing inserts in the United States. Free-standing inserts are multiple-page marketing booklets containing coupons, rebates and other consumer offers, which are distributed to consumers through insertion primarily into local Sunday newspapers. Advertisers, primarily packaged goods companies, pay NAMG to produce free-standing inserts, and NAMG contracts with and pays, among others, newspapers to include the free-standing inserts primarily into the newspapers’ Sunday editions. NAMG produces approximately 74 million free-standing inserts more than 40 times a year, which are inserted in approximately 1,700 newspapers and other publications throughout the United States. NAMG, through an affiliate, also produces ten million free-standing inserts approximately 15 times annually, which are inserted into over 300 Canadian newspapers and other publications in Canada. NAMG is a leading provider of in-store marketing products and services, primarily to consumer packaged goods manufacturers, with products in more than 55,000 supermarkets, drug stores, dollar stores, office supply stores and mass merchandisers worldwide. SmartSource® is the brand name that is linked with NAMG’s assortment of marketing products, including, among others, free-standing inserts, NAMG’s instant coupon machines and various shelf advertising products. The SmartSource® brand currently reaches approximately 158 million consumers weekly. 18 Table of Contents The SmartSource Digital manages NAMG’s portfolio of database and electronic marketing solutions. The database marketing business, branded SmartSource Direct, provides direct mail solutions via its national network of retailer frequent shopper card databases. SmartSource Direct uses frequent shopper card databases to access the purchase behavior of more than 100 million cardholders. The SmartSource Savings Network, which includes SmartSource.com and SmartSource Xpress, encompasses all of NAMG’s electronic couponing and sampling solutions accessed through the web, mobile and tablet-based programming and reaches an audience of more than 85 million consumers. Competition The newspapers, magazines and digital publications of the Company compete for readership and advertising with a variety of print and digital media. For the Company’s consumer products, the competition includes local and national newspapers, web and application-based media, social media sources and other traditional media such as television, magazines and radio. Competition for print and digital subscriptions is based on the news and editorial content, subscription pricing, cover price and, from time to time, various promotions. The success of the newspapers and digital media published by the Company in competing for advertising depends upon advertisers’ judgments as to the most effective media for their advertising budgets. The Company competes for print and digital advertising based upon circulation volume, readership levels, audience demographics, advertising rates and advertising effectiveness results. Such judgments are based on factors such as cost, availability of alternative media, circulation and quality of readership demographics. In recent years, the newspaper and publishing industry has experienced difficulty increasing or maintaining circulation volume and revenues. This is due to, among other factors, increased competition from new media formats and sources, and shifting preferences among some consumers to receive all or a portion of their news from sources other than a newspaper, including digital sources available free of charge to consumers. These new channels for distributing news and other content to consumers have impacted, and could continue to impact, performance, positively and negatively. News consumption via smart phones and tablet computers, including the growth of applications, has introduced new or different pricing schemes and may affect the relationship between publishers and customers. The Company believes that competition from new media formats and shifting consumer preferences will continue to pose opportunities and challenges within the newspaper and publishing industry. Dow Jones’ print and digital publications compete with other media that offer coverage of business news, including the print and digital publications of The Financial Times, The New York Times, USA Today, TheStreet.com, Bloomberg, Forbes, Yahoo!Finance, Thomson Reuters, CNN Money, MSN Money, CNBC and Google. Dow Jones Newswires competes with other global financial newswires, including Thomson Reuters and Bloomberg L.P., as well as many Internet-based providers of financial news and information. Factiva competes with various business information service providers, including LexisNexis, Thomson Reuters, Hoover’s and OneSource. Factiva also competes with various Internet-based information search services such as those offered by Google, Microsoft and Yahoo!. The book publishing business operates in a highly competitive market that is quickly changing and continues to see technological innovations, including electronic book devices sold by Amazon, Apple and Barnes & Noble. HarperCollins competes with other large publishers, such as Random House, Penguin Group, Simon & Schuster and Hachette Livre, as well as with numerous smaller publishers, for the rights to works by well-known authors and public personalities. In addition, HarperCollins competes for readership with other media formats and sources. NAMG competes against other providers of advertising and marketing products and services, including those that provide promotional or advertising inserts and direct mailers of promotional or advertising materials, 19 Table of Contents as well as those that provide trade and in-store advertisements and promotions. Competition is based on, among other things, rates, availability of traditional and digital markets, quality of products and services provided and their effectiveness, and rate of coupon redemption. Other Digital Media Businesses The Company’s digital media businesses include IGN Entertainment, Inc. (“IGN”), and other internet properties. These businesses develop and promote content and experiences for internet audiences and generate revenue through internet advertising, sponsorships, subscriptions and e-commerce. IGN’s network of video game, lifestyle and entertainment-related Internet properties represent many of the top web properties in their respective categories across the Internet. IGN Entertainment is one of the top gaming information networks on the Internet with over 20.1 million unique users and 399 million page views in the United States in June 2012 according to comScore Media Metrix. IGN’s IPL subsidiary, formed in September 2011, focuses on competitive gaming in both online and offline events. IGN has expanded its reach domestically through a significant presence on YouTube and other social media, and internationally, through partnerships with local operators in Asia Pacific, the Middle East, Germany, Sweden and other countries in Europe. IGN also owns and operates one of the leading men’s lifestyle websites, AskMen.com. Making Fun, Inc. (“Making Fun”) is a social games developer and publisher acquired in December 2010. Making Fun makes games for various platforms, including Facebook, Android, and iOS, and has launched several games with additional ones in development. Competition. These digital media businesses compete for advertisers, users and traffic with other online media and offline entertainment and advertising options. These businesses develop new tools and features to remain competitive. These new tools and features are key competitive factors in keeping users engaged with these digital media businesses. Amplify In July 2012, the Company launched Amplify, the brand for its education division. Amplify is dedicated to improving K-12 education by creating digital products and services that empower teachers, students and parents in new ways. Amplify is focused on transforming teaching and learning by creating and scaling digital innovations in three areas: analytics and assessment, content and curriculum and distribution and delivery. Amplify focuses on educational analytics and formative assessment through Wireless Generation, Inc. (“Wireless Generation”), an Amplify company that serves more than 200,000 teachers and three million students in all 50 states. Its products and services help teachers and administrators assess learning progress throughout the year, differentiate instruction and adapt curricula to meet individual students’ needs. Other Operations The Company has an interest in FOX TV in Turkey, which is a free-to-air, general entertainment television station. News Digital Media is the Company’s Australian online division. In addition to maintaining the Company’s Australian websites, News Digital Media is responsible for online advertising and transactions in Australia. News Digital Media sites include news.com.au, MOSHTIX.com.au, GetPrice.com.au and truelocal.com.au. News Digital Media also has a 50% stake in CareerOne.com.au and carsguide.com.au. 20 Table of Contents Equity Interests BSkyB The Company holds an approximate 39% interest in BSkyB. BSkyB’s ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange under the symbol “BSY”. BSkyB operates the leading pay television broadcast service in the United Kingdom and Ireland, as well as broadband and telephony services. BSkyB acquires and commissions programming to broadcast on its own channels and supplies certain of those channels to cable operators for retransmission by the cable operators to their subscribers in the United Kingdom and Ireland. BSkyB also retails channels (both its own and those of third parties) to DTH subscribers and to certain of its own channels to a limited number of DSL subscribers. In June 2010, the Company announced that it had proposed to the board of directors of BSkyB to make a cash offer of 700 pence per share for the BSkyB shares that the Company does not already own. Following the allegations regarding The News of the World, on July 13, 2011, the Company announced that it no longer intended to make an offer for the BSkyB shares that the Company does not already own. As a result of the July 2011 announcement, the Company paid BSkyB a breakup fee of approximately $63 million in accordance with a cooperation agreement between the parties. NDS NDS Group Limited (“NDS”) creates technologies and applications that enable pay television operators to deliver digital content to televisions, set-top boxes, DVRs, personal computers, portable media players, removable media and other mobile devices securely. In March 2012, the Company and funds advised by Permira Advisers LLP signed an agreement to sell NDS to Cisco Systems Inc. for approximately $5 billion, including the assumption of debt. The Company owned approximately 49% of NDS. The transaction was completed on July 30, 2012. FOX Sports Australia The Company holds a 50% interest in Premier Media Group, a producer of sports channels, more commonly referred to as FOX Sports Australia. FOXTEL The Company, Telstra Corporation Limited, an Australian telecommunications company, and Consolidated Media Holdings Ltd. (“CMH”), an Australian media investment company, own and operate FOXTEL, a cable and satellite television service in Australia with 25%, 50% and 25% interests, respectively. At June 30, 2012, FOXTEL had approximately 2.2 million residential subscribers (including subscribers to Optus, an Australian telecommunications company, and subscribers acquired as a result of FOXTEL’s acquisition of Austar United Communications Ltd in May 2012). In June 2012, the Company’s subsidiary News Limited made a conditional non-binding offer to acquire CMH for approximately $2 billion. If the proposal is implemented, the Company would double its stake in FOXTEL to 50% and would own 100% of FOX Sports Australia. Other Investments SkyNZ. The Company owns an approximate 44% interest in Sky Network Television Limited, a land-linked UHF network and digital DBS service in New Zealand. Hulu. The Company has an approximate 32% equity interest in Hulu, LLC (“Hulu”) which operates an online video service that offers video content from Fox, NBC Universal, The Walt Disney Company and over 300 other third party content licensors. Hulu’s premium programming is available free of charge to viewers at Hulu.com and over 30 destination sites online, including AOL, IMDb, MSN, Myspace and Yahoo!. Additional premium programming is available on a monthly subscription basis at Hulu.com and through software applications on Internet-connected devices, including smart phones, tablets, gaming consoles and set-top boxes. 21 Table of Contents Sky Deutschland. The Company owns a 49.9% equity interest in Sky Deutschland, the leading pay television operator in Germany and Austria. The core business of Sky Deutschland is subscription pay-tv and it offers a wide range of programming in Germany and Austria and can be received via Teleclub in Switzerland. Sky Deutschland’s program offering includes current feature films, new series, children’s channels, documentaries and live sports, such as the German Bundesliga and UEFA Champions League. Sky Deutschland has market leading HD offering with over 50 HD channels, and an additional service called “Sky Go” which is available on the web, iPhone and iPad. In February 2012, the Company agreed to backstop €300 million (approximately $395 million) of financing measures that are being initiated by Sky Deutschland. The first step of the financing was completed in February 2012, in which Sky Deutschland raised approximately €155 million, and the Company acquired 35.3 million additional shares of Sky Deutschland maintaining its ownership at 49.9%. The aggregate cost of the shares acquired by the Company was approximately €80 million (approximately $100 million) and the shares were newly registered shares issued pursuant to the capital increase. The second capital measure of €145 million (approximately $195 million) is expected to be raised by Sky Deutschland by the end of September 2012 and is planned through any or a combination of the following measures: a rights offering, a private placement, a loan provided by the Company and/or a convertible bond underlying Sky Deutschland shares. In the event that a convertible bond is issued, the remaining €145 million funding will be increased by the amount of interest payable on the bond from the date of issue until December 31, 2013. The Company’s backstop commitment is subject to certain customary conditions such as the absence of a material adverse change in Sky Deutschland’s business. As part of financing measures in fiscal 2011, the Company currently provides a loan to Sky Deutschland for approximately €58 million (approximately $80 million) and has further agreed to loan Sky Deutschland approximately $70 million to support the launch of a sports news channel which it expects to fund within one year. As part of the fiscal 2011 capital raising, the Company purchased a convertible bond for approximately $225 million in January 2011. The Company has the right to convert the bond into 53.9 million underlying Sky Deutschland shares, subject to certain black-out periods. If not converted, the Company will have the option to redeem the bond for cash upon its maturity in January 2015. CMC-News Asia. The Company holds an approximate 47% interest in CMC-News Asia, a joint venture with China Media Capital, a media investment fund in China. CMC-News Asia develops and broadcasts the Chinese language Xing Kong and Channel [V] China channels primarily in China on a free-to-air basis to local cable operators in southern China and three-star and above hotels and other approved organizations and institutions, and sells television, new media, home video and other rights to its extensive contemporary Chinese film library comprised of over 750 titles. Bona Film Group. In May 2012, the Company acquired a 17% interest in Bona Film Group, a film distributor in China listed on NASDAQ, for approximately $70 million in cash. Government Regulation General Various aspects of the Company’s activities are subject to regulation in numerous jurisdictions around the world. The Company believes that it is in material compliance with the requirements imposed by those laws and regulations described herein. The introduction of new laws and regulations in countries where the Company’s products and services are produced or distributed (and changes in the enforcement of existing laws and regulations in those countries) could have a negative impact on the interests of the Company. 22 Table of Contents Cable Network Programming and Direct Broadcast Satellite Television United States. FCC regulations adopted pursuant to the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992 (the “Program Access Rules”) prevent a cable operator that has an attributable interest (including voting or non-voting stock ownership of 5% or more or limited partnership equity interests of 5% or more) in a programming vendor from exercising undue or improper influence over the vendor in its dealings with competitors to cable. The Program Access Rules also prohibit a cable programmer in which a cable operator has an attributable interest from entering into exclusive contracts with any cable operator or from discriminating among competing Multichannel Video Programming Distributors in the price, terms and conditions of sale or delivery of programming. The cable networks operated by the Company are not currently subject to the Program Access Rules. Asia. The Company broadcasts television programming over a “footprint” covering approximately 53 Asian countries. Most countries in which the Company operates have a regulatory framework for the satellite and cable television industry. Government regulation of direct reception and redistribution via cable or other means of satellite television signals, where it is addressed at all, is treated differently in each country. At one extreme are absolute bans on private ownership of satellite receiving equipment. Some countries, however, have adopted a less restrictive approach, opting to allow ownership of satellite receiving equipment by certain institutions and individuals but allowing them to receive only authorized broadcasts. At the opposite end of the spectrum are countries where private satellite dish ownership is allowed and laws and regulations have been adopted which support popular access to satellite services through local cable redistribution. Most television services within Asia, whether free-to-air or pay television, are also subject to licensing requirements. In addition, most countries in which the Company operates control the content offered by local broadcast operators through censorship requirements to which program suppliers, such as the Company, are subject. Certain countries also require a minimum percentage of local content. Other countries require local broadcast operators to obtain government approval to retransmit foreign programming. Additional categories of regulation of actual or potential significance to the Company are restrictions on foreign investment in distribution platforms, television programming production, limitations on exclusive arrangements for channel distribution and non-discrimination requirements for supply or carriage of programming and anti-competition or anti-trust legislation. Such restrictions are different in each country. India. In India, private satellite dish ownership, including DTH, is allowed. Television viewers receive broadcast television signals primarily through terrestrial and cable delivery and, in more recent years, through DTH and IPTV delivery. Terrestrial broadcasting remains the domain of government-owned broadcast stations. All cable television operators are required to carry certain government-operated channels. Retransmissions of foreign satellite channels, such as STAR India’s channels, are permitted, subject to licensing requirements and compliance with local applicable laws, including programming and advertisement codes. The Indian government requires that all cinematograph film and media content, whether produced in India or abroad, be certified by the Central Board of Film Certification prior to exhibition in India and also places certain restrictions on advertising content. The Indian Broadcasting Foundation has issued Self Regulatory Guidelines that apply to the programming on non-news and current affairs channels. Limits are imposed by the Indian government on the increase in the year-on-year prices payable by cable operators to broadcasters for all pay and free-to-air channels, including the Company’s channels. Further, certain areas have been notified for pay channels to be compulsorily provided through conditional access systems where cable operators are required to provide such channels at a capped retail price, of which the broadcasters’ share is restricted to 45%. The wholesale and retail pricing tariffs are presently under review consequent to intervention by the Indian courts. While there is no tariff regulation for DTH at retail level, broadcasters are required to offer their channels to DTH platforms at 42% of the rates charged to analogue cable operators pursuant to an interim order by the Supreme Court of India. Broadcasters are also required to provide their channels on 23 Table of Contents non-discriminatory terms to all distributors if no carriage charges are being sought from broadcasters. In October 2011, an ordinance was issued in India mandating that cable networks switch from analog to digital addressable systems. This ordinance was followed by a Notification outlining the timelines for switch off of analog cable systems in phases. When enacted, the ordinance amended the Cable Television Act and new rules were issued. The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (“TRAI”) devised new Interconnect Regulations for digital addressable cable systems and issued amendments to the Tariff Order for digital addressable cable systems mandating that inter alia basic service tiers comprised of free-to-air channels be compulsorily offered to consumers. Regulations on consumer grievance redressal and quality of service were also issued by TRAI. When implemented, this new regime will replace the dispensation described above which capped in certain areas of India the retail prices and restricted broadcasters’ share to 45%. The first phase of this new regime is expected to be implemented in fiscal 2013 with the first compliance deadline extended by the Central Government to October 31, 2012 for the cities of Kolkata, Chennai, Delhi and Mumbai. TRAI has also enacted regulations in May 2012 which would limit the amount of advertising time allowed on television channels. Such regulations have been challenged and the application of such regulations has been stayed by the Indian courts. Latin America. The Company broadcasts television programming throughout approximately 18 Latin American countries, as well as the Caribbean. Certain countries in which the Company operates have a regulatory framework for the satellite and cable television industry. These regulations vary in each country as does their impact on the Company’s business. In Argentina, the government has required pay TV operators to carry certain government operated channels, imposed restrictions on the ability to effectuate price increases on rates charged to pay TV operators, reduced by half the available advertising inventory on the channels and enforced regulations affecting the withholding tax on advertisers purchasing advertising inventory on international channels. The Company is working to minimize the impact of the reduction of advertising inventory and tax implications on advertisers. In addition, the government in Argentina has implemented certain measures in currency exchange controls which have caused significant impediments and limitations to any person or entity moving money out of the country resulting in exposure to currency devaluation. In Mexico, the regulatory agency limited ad inventory to a strict six minutes per hour. In Brazil, a New Media Law requires, among other things: (i) that all channels distributed in the region contain at least three hours and thirty minutes per week of Brazilian content during prime time hours, half of which must be produced by a Brazilian independent producer; (ii) registration of all channels, programmers, local content and advertisements; (iii) website disclosure of programming and advertising content to ensure compliance with tax and other regulations; and (iv) mediation of local agency requirements and taxation on all advertising that is contracted abroad. While such tax shall primarily be paid by advertisers, programmers are ultimately responsible for the tax payment, and failure by advertisers to pay the required tax could subject programmers to fines or penalties. Compliance with the New Media Law increases the cost of doing business in the form of production/acquisition costs as well as third party administrative and legal expenses. Europe. The sectors in which the Company operates in Europe are subject to both general competition laws and sector specific regulation. The regulatory regime applicable to the electronic communications and broadcasting sectors is, to a large extent, based on European Union (“EU”) law comprised in various EU directives that require EU member states to adopt national legislation to give effect to the directives’ objectives, while leaving the precise manner and form of the national legislation to the discretion of each member state. The Electronic Communications Directives regulate the provision of communication services, including networks and transmission services that are involved in the broadcasting of television services as well as the provisions of services and facilities associated with the operation of digital television platforms. The AudioVisual Media Services Directive sets out the basic principles for the regulation of television broadcasting activity, including broadcasting licensing, advertising and content regulation. In connection with the Company’s acquisition of Telepiù Spa and Stream Spa to form SKY Italia in 2003, the EC placed on the operations of SKY Italia certain regulatory restrictions, which expired December 31, 2011. 24 Table of Contents Filmed Entertainment United States. FFE is subject to the provisions of so-called “trade practice laws” in effect in 25 states relating to theatrical distribution of motion pictures. These laws substantially restrict the licensing of motion pictures unless theater owners are first invited to attend a screening of the motion pictures and, in certain instances, also prohibit payment of advances and guarantees to motion picture distributors by exhibitors. Further, pursuant to various consent judgments, FFE and certain other motion picture companies are subject to certain restrictions on their trade practices in the United States, including a requirement to offer motion pictures for exhibition to theaters on a theater-by-theater basis and, in some cases, a prohibition against the ownership of theaters. Other International Regulation. In countries outside of the United States, there are a variety of existing or contemplated governmental laws and regulations that may affect the ability of FFE to distribute and/or license its motion picture and television products to cinema, television or in-home media, including copyright laws and regulations that may or may not be adequate to protect its interests, cinema screen quotas, television quotas, contract term limitations, discriminatory taxes and other discriminatory treatment of U.S. products. The ability of countries to deny market access or refuse national treatment to products originating outside their territories is regulated under various international agreements, including the World Trade Organization’s General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and General Agreement on Trade and Services; however, these agreements have limited application with respect to preventing the denial of market access to audio-visual products originating outside the European Union. Television In general, the television broadcast industry in the United States is highly regulated by federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the FCC. The FCC regulates television broadcasting, and certain aspects of the operations of cable, satellite and other electronic media that compete with broadcasting, pursuant to the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (the “Communications Act”). The Communications Act permits the operation of television broadcast stations only in accordance with a license issued by the FCC upon a finding that the grant of the license would serve the public interest, convenience and necessity. The FCC grants television broadcast station licenses for specific periods of time and, upon application, may renew the licenses for additional terms. Under the Communications Act, television broadcast licenses may be granted for a maximum permitted term of eight years. Generally, the FCC renews broadcast licenses upon finding that: (i) the television station has served the public interest, convenience and necessity; (ii) there have been no serious violations by the licensee of the Communications Act or FCC rules and regulations; and (iii) there have been no other violations by the licensee of the Communications Act or FCC rules and regulations which, taken together, indicate a pattern of abuse. After considering these factors, the FCC may grant the license renewal application with or without conditions, including renewal for a lesser term than the maximum otherwise permitted, or hold an evidentiary hearing. Fox Television Stations has pending renewal applications for a number of its television station licenses. Seven of the pending applications have been opposed by third parties. On June 13, 2007 and May 15, 2008, Fox Television Stations entered into agreements with the FCC that preclude it from objecting, on the grounds that such action is barred by certain statutes of limitations, to FCC or other governmental action relating to (i) petitions to deny or complaints that have been filed against several owned and operated stations relating to programming that is alleged to violate the prohibition against indecent broadcasts or (ii) inquiries from the FCC regarding compliance with its sponsorship identification rules. For information on the television stations owned and operated by the Company, see “—Fox Television Stations” above. In March 2010, the FCC delivered its national Broadband Plan to Congress, which reviews the nation’s broadband Internet infrastructure and recommends a number of initiatives to spur broadband deployment and use. In order to free up more spectrum for wireless broadband services, the Broadband Plan proposes to make 25 Table of Contents spectrum available, including 120 megahertz of broadcast spectrum, by incentivizing current private-sector spectrum holders to return some of their spectrum to the government by 2015 through such initiatives as voluntary “incentive” spectrum auctions (with current licensees permitted to share in the auction proceeds) and “repacking” of channel assignments to increase efficient spectrum usage. If voluntary measures fail to yield the amount of spectrum the FCC deems necessary for wireless broadband deployment, the Broadband Plan proposes various mandates to reclaim spectrum, such as forced channel sharing. In response to the Broadband Plan, Congress passed legislation in February 2012 authorizing the FCC to conduct voluntary auctions of television broadcast station spectrum. Stations that continue their operations may have to change channels once the FCC “repacks” broadcast spectrum. The legislation requires the FCC to assist stations in retaining their current coverage areas, provides that no stations will be forced into the VHF band and establishes a fund to reimburse broadcasters for reasonable channel relocation expenses. The broadcast industry is exploring additional uses for currently allocated spectrum. In April 2010, Fox Television Stations and eleven other major broadcast station group owners formed Mobile Content Venture (“MCV”), a joint venture to develop a new national mobile content service utilizing the stations’ digital broadcast spectrum. MCV is expected to launch in 35 markets by the end of 2012. It is expected that FCC auctions and repacking will involve multiple rulemaking proceedings and may take several years to complete. It is not possible to predict the timing or outcome of implementation of the Broadband Plan, FCC spectrum auctions and repacking, or their effect on the Company. On February 4, 2008, the FCC issued an order that concluded the quadrennial review of its broadcast ownership regulations required by the 1996 Telecom Act (the “February 2008 Order”). The FCC decided there should be no changes to its multiple ownership rules relating to the ownership of more than one television station in the same market. Those rules (i) permit the ownership of two television stations with overlapping coverage areas if the stations are in separate DMAs; and (ii) permit the ownership of two stations in the same DMA if their Grade B coverage areas do not overlap or if eight independently owned full power television stations will remain in the DMA after the stations that had been independently owned become commonly owned, and one of the merged stations is not among the top four-ranked stations in the market, based on audience share. The FCC modified its rule prohibiting common ownership of a broadcast station and a newspaper in the same market to allow such combinations in certain situations. The February 2008 Order was appealed by several parties, including the Company. On July 7, 2011, the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit affirmed the FCC’s decision to retain its multiple ownership rules and vacated and remanded the revision to the newspaper/broadcast cross-ownership rule on the grounds the FCC failed to comply with procedural notice and comment requirements. On December 22, 2011, the FCC commenced the next quadrennial review, in which it proposed minor modifications to its ownership regulations. None of the proposed modifications would affect the impact of the FCC ownership rules on the Company’s current ownership of media properties. The Company has filed comments in the current proceeding, which is pending. Fox Television Stations is in compliance with the rules governing ownership of multiple stations in the same market and with the national station ownership cap established by Congress. Fox Television Stations retains an attributable interest in the Post and two television stations in the New York DMA. On October 6, 2006, the FCC reaffirmed the Company’s permanent waiver of the newspaper/broadcast cross-ownership rule, which allows the common ownership of the Post and WNYW(TV), and granted a two-year temporary waiver of the rule to continue to allow the common ownership of the Post and WWOR-TV (the “October 2006 Order”). The Company has asked the FCC to extend the permanent waiver to WWOR-TV. The temporary waiver remains in effect pursuant to FCC precedent pending FCC action on this request. Parties opposed to the October 2006 Order filed a petition for reconsideration with the FCC, which was denied on May 22, 2009. Other opponents of the October 2006 Order have asked the FCC to reconsider its May 22, 2009 decision and have filed an opposition to the Company’s request for a permanent waiver. It is not possible to predict the timing or outcome of the FCC’s action on this request for reconsideration or its effect on the Company. Under the Communications Act, no broadcast stations may be owned by a corporation if more than 25% of its stock is owned or voted by non-U.S. persons, their representatives, or by any other corporation organized under the laws of a foreign country. On April 18, 2012, the Company announced that it had determined that 26 Table of Contents approximately 36% of the Company’s Class B Common Stock is owned by non-U.S. stakeholders, and the combined ownership of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock by non-U.S. stockholders is approximately 22% of the combined outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. As authorized by the Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation and in order to ensure compliance with the Communications Act, the Company suspended 50% of the voting rights of the Class B Common Stock held by non-U.S. stockholders. This suspension will remain in place for as long as the Company deems it necessary to maintain compliance with the Act. The FCC could review the Company’s compliance with the Act in connection with its consideration of Fox Television Stations’ license renewal applications. FCC regulations implementing the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992 require each television broadcaster to elect, at three-year intervals, either to (i) require carriage of its signal by cable systems in the station’s market (“must carry”) or (ii) negotiate the terms on which that broadcast station would permit transmission of its signal by the cable systems within its market (“retransmission consent”). Generally, the Company has elected retransmission consent for the stations owned and operated by Fox Television Stations. The Satellite Home Viewer Improvement Act of 1999 requires satellite carriers to carry upon request all television stations located in markets in which the satellite carrier retransmits at least one local station pursuant to the copyright license provided in the statute (“Carry One, Carry All”). FCC regulations implementing this statutory provision require affected stations to elect either mandatory carriage at the same three year intervals applicable to cable “must carry” or negotiate carriage terms with the satellite operators. Several cable and satellite operators filed a petition for rulemaking with the FCC seeking changes in the retransmission consent regulations, including the imposition of mandatory arbitration and required interim carriage in the event the broadcaster and distributor fail to reach a carriage agreement. In March 2011, the FCC responded by initiating a rulemaking to explore changes to its retransmission consent regulations. The FCC tentatively concluded that it does not have the power to order mandatory arbitration or interim carriage and instead sought comment on modifications to its rules affecting retransmission consent negotiations, including providing more guidance under the FCC’s “good faith negotiation” standard, improving notice to consumers in advance of possible disruptions of TV station carriage and eliminating program exclusivity rules that restrict cable and satellite operators’ ability to negotiate for alternative access to network programming. Among other things, the FCC sought comment on whether it should be a per se violation of “good faith negotiation” requirements for a station to agree to give its network the right to approve retransmission consent agreements or to comply with such an approval requirement in the network affiliation agreement. The broadcast industry, including Fox Entertainment Group and Fox Television Stations, has filed comments opposing changes to the current retransmission consent regime. It is not possible to predict the timing or outcome of the rulemaking or its effect on the Company. Legislation enacted in 1990 limits the amount of commercial matter that may be broadcast during programming designed for children 12 years of age and younger. In addition, under FCC license renewal processing guidelines, television stations are generally required to broadcast a minimum of three hours per week of programming, which, among other requirements, must serve, as a “significant purpose,” the educational and informational needs of children 16 years of age and under. A television station found not to have complied with the programming requirements or commercial limitations could face sanctions, including monetary fines and the possible non-renewal of its license. FCC rules prohibit the broadcast by television and radio stations of indecent or profane material between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. Beginning in March 2004, the FCC implemented a new policy regarding this prohibition and generally stepped up its enforcement of indecency violations. Under the new policy, the single use of certain forbidden expletives, or variations of those expletives, were deemed “indecent” and “profane.” The FCC also warned broadcasters that serious multiple violations of the indecency prohibition could lead to license revocation proceedings, and that fines could be imposed for each incident in a single broadcast. Under the new FCC policy, both complaints about indecency and FCC enforcement actions have increased, and several complaints alleging the broadcast of alleged indecent or profane material by Fox Television Stations are pending at the FCC. As of June 2006, the law authorizes the FCC to impose fines of up to $325,000 per incident for violation of the prohibition against indecent and profane broadcasts. 27 Table of Contents On March 15, 2006, the FCC determined that the 2002 and 2003 Billboard Music Awards programs, both live broadcasts on FOX, violated the prohibitions against indecent and profane broadcasts because they contained isolated uses of the forbidden expletives (the “March 15 Order”). However, since these broadcasts preceded the FCC’s March 2004 policy, no forfeiture or other penalty was imposed. Nonetheless, in April 2006, Fox Television Stations appealed the March 15 Order to the Second Circuit Court of Appeals (the “Second Circuit”). On June 4, 2007, the Second Circuit granted Fox’s appeal, vacating the March 15 Order as well as the FCC’s new policy on “fleeting expletives” in its entirety on the grounds that both were arbitrary and capricious. The United States obtained review by the U.S. Supreme Court, which reversed the Second Circuit’s decision and remanded the case back to the Second Circuit for consideration of the constitutional issues that had been raised before but not yet decided by that court. On June 13, 2010, the Second Circuit vacated the March 15 Order and the FCC’s indecency policy underlying it on the grounds that the policy is unconstitutionally vague and violates the First Amendment. On June 21, 2012, the Supreme Court decided that the FCC failed to give FOX fair notice that the isolated use of expletives could violate the indecency prohibition and therefore the Commission’s standards as applied to the broadcasts in question were unconstitutionally vague. The Court vacated the violations for the Billboard Music Awards broadcasts and reversed the Second Circuit’s decision on the constitutionality of the FCC’s underlying indecency policy. It is not possible to predict the implications of the Supreme Court’s action for future FCC enforcement of its indecency rules. On February 22, 2008, the FCC issued an order imposing forfeitures of $7,000 each on 13 FOX Affiliates, including five stations owned and operated by the Company, on the grounds that an April 7, 2003 episode of the program Married by America violated the prohibition against indecent broadcasts. On April 4, 2008, the United States commenced an action in federal district court in the District of Columbia against the five Company-owned stations to collect the forfeitures imposed by the FCC. One of the stations, WDAF-TV, subsequently paid the $7,000 forfeiture and was dismissed from the case in connection with the sale of that station by the Company to Oak Hill Capital Partners in July 2008. The Company moved to dismiss the suit on several grounds, including that the FCC’s forfeiture order is unconstitutional. It is not possible to predict the timing or outcome of this case or its effect on the Company. Modifications to the Company’s programming to reduce the risk of indecency violations could have an adverse effect on the competitive position of Fox Television Stations and FOX. If indecency regulation is extended to cable and satellite programming, and such extension was found to be constitutional, some of the Company’s cable programming services could be subject to additional regulation that might affect subscription and viewership levels. The FCC continues to enforce strictly its regulations concerning political advertising, children’s television, environmental concerns, equal employment opportunity, technical operating matters and antenna tower maintenance. FCC rules require the closed captioning of almost all broadcast and cable programming. A federal law enacted in late 2010 requires affiliates of the four largest broadcast networks in the 25 largest markets to carry 50 hours of prime time or children’s programming per calendar quarter with video descriptions, i.e., a verbal description of key visual elements is inserted into natural pauses in the audio and broadcast over a separate audio channel. Cable and satellite operators with 50,000 or more subscribers must do the same on each of the top five non-broadcast networks they carry. Compliance is required by July 1, 2012 and will apply to FOX affiliates in the Top 25 markets. Fox News Channel, which is among the top five non-broadcast networks, falls within the statutory exemption for “live or near-live” programming. The same statute requires programming that was captioned on television to retain captions when distributed via the Internet Protocol. Although not required by FCC regulation, the Company has committed to provide program ratings information for its broadcast network programming for use in conjunction with V Chip technology, which blocks the display of television programming based on its rating. The Company has also agreed to make this ratings information available for all full-length entertainment programs that stream on websites the Company controls. FCC regulations governing network affiliation agreements mandate that television broadcast station licensees retain the right to reject or refuse network programming in certain circumstances or to substitute programming that the licensee reasonably believes to be of greater local or national importance. Violation of FCC regulations can result in substantial monetary forfeitures, periodic reporting conditions, short-term license renewals and, in egregious cases, denial of license renewal or revocation of license. 28 Table of Contents Internet The Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act of 1998 (“COPPA”) prohibits websites from collecting personally identifiable information online from children under age 13 without prior parental consent. The Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003 (“CAN-SPAM”) regulates the distribution of unsolicited commercial emails, or “spam.” Online services provided by the Company may be subject to COPPA and CAN-SPAM requirements. Federal regulators’ interest in issues of privacy, cybersecurity and data security has been steadily increasing. On February 23, 2012, the Administration issued a white paper on consumer data privacy that includes a Consumer Privacy Bill of Rights. The Administration is convening a multi-stakeholder process to implement the Bill of Rights through industry codes of conduct that would be enforceable by the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) and State Attorneys General. The Administration also announced it would work with Congress to implement these rights through legislation. On March 26, 2012, the FTC released a report on consumer privacy, which sets forth a detailed privacy framework and urges industry to accelerate the pace of adoption of self-regulatory measures, including more widespread adoption of a Do-Not-Track browser mechanism. The report also recommends that Congress consider baseline privacy legislation incorporating the principles articulated in the framework. A number of privacy and data security bills have been introduced in both Houses of Congress that address the collection, maintenance and use of personal information, web browsing and geolocation data, data security and breach notification requirements, and cybersecurity. Several Congressional hearings have examined privacy implications for online, offline and mobile data. Some state legislatures have already adopted legislation that regulates how businesses operate on the Internet, including measures relating to privacy, data security and data breaches. The industry released a set of self-regulatory online behavioral advertising principles in 2009, which have been implemented by web publishers, online advertisers and online advertising networks. In November 2011, these principles were extended to the use of online consumer data for purposes other than advertising. It is unclear whether these and other industry self-regulatory efforts alone will address the concerns expressed by some federal and state officials about the collection of anonymous data online or via mobile applications to serve targeted content and advertising. It is not possible to predict whether proposed privacy and data security legislation will be enacted or to determine what effect such legislation might have on the Company’s business. Foreign governments are raising similar privacy and data security concerns. In particular, the EU has proposed a new privacy regulation (the “EU Regulation”) that would replace the current Data Protection Directive, would tighten regulation of the collection, use and security of online data and would continue to restrict the trans-border flow of data. European industry has implemented a self-regulatory regime for online behavioral advertising that is largely consistent with the U.S. self-regulatory framework. The proposed EU Regulation will not be effective for at least three or four years and may undergo many changes before it is adopted. It is unclear how the final EU Regulation would affect the Company’s business. The Company monitors pending legislation and regulatory initiatives to ascertain relevance, analyze impact and develop strategic direction surrounding regulatory trends and developments. Raw Materials As a major publisher of newspapers, magazines, free-standing inserts and books, the Company utilizes substantial quantities of various types of paper. In order to obtain the best available prices, substantially all of the Company’s paper purchasing is done on a centralized, volume purchase basis, and draws upon major paper manufacturing countries around the world. The Company believes that under present market conditions, its sources of paper supply used in its publishing activities are adequate. 29 Table of Contents Intellectual Property The Company’s intellectual property assets include: copyrights in motion pictures, television programming, newspapers, books, magazines, websites and technologies; trademarks in names, logos and characters; domain names; patents or patent applications for inventions related to its products, business methods and/or services; and licenses of intellectual property rights of various kinds. The Company derives value from these assets through the theatrical release of films and the production, distribution and/or licensing of its films and television programming to domestic and international television and cable networks, pay television services, pay-per-view, video-on-demand services and DTH satellite services, operation of websites, and through the sale of products, such as DVDs, Blu-rays, books, newspapers and magazines, among others. The Company devotes significant resources to protecting its intellectual property in the United States and other key foreign territories. To protect these assets, the Company relies upon a combination of copyright, trademark, unfair competition, patent, trade secret and other laws and contract provisions. However, there can be no assurance of the degree to which these measures will be successful in any given case. Policing unauthorized use of the Company’s products and services and related intellectual property is often difficult and the steps taken may not in every case prevent the infringement by unauthorized third parties of the Company’s intellectual property. The Company seeks to limit that threat through a combination of approaches, including offering legitimate market alternatives, deploying digital rights management technologies, pursuing legal sanctions for infringement, promoting appropriate legislative initiatives and international treaties and enhancing public awareness of the meaning and value of intellectual property and intellectual property laws. Piracy, including in the digital environment, continues to present a threat to revenues from products and services based on intellectual property. Third parties may challenge the validity or scope of the Company’s intellectual property from time to time, and such challenges could result in the limitation or loss of intellectual property rights. Irrespective of their validity, such claims may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources that could have an adverse effect on the Company’s operations. Moreover, effective intellectual property protection may be either unavailable or limited in certain foreign territories. Therefore, the Company engages in efforts to strengthen and update intellectual property protection around the world, including efforts to ensure the effective enforcement of intellectual property laws and remedies for infringement. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Prospective investors should consider carefully the risk factors set forth below before making an investment in the Company’s securities. A Decline in Advertising Expenditures Could Cause the Company’s Revenues and Operating Results to Decline Significantly in any Given Period or in Specific Markets. The Company derives substantial revenues from the sale of advertising on or in its television stations, broadcast and cable networks, newspapers, integrated marketing services, digital media properties and direct broadcast satellite services. Expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions, as well as budgeting and buying patterns. A decline in the economic prospects of advertisers or the economy in general could alter current or prospective advertisers’ spending priorities. Demand for the Company’s products is also a factor in determining advertising rates. For example, ratings points for the Company’s television stations, broadcast and cable networks and circulation levels for the Company’s newspapers are factors that are weighed when determining advertising rates, and with respect to the Company’s television stations and broadcast and television networks, when determining the affiliate rates received by the Company. In addition, newer technologies, including new video formats, streaming and downloading capabilities via the Internet, video-on-demand, personal video recorders, digital distribution models for books and other devices and technologies are increasing the number of media and entertainment choices available to audiences. Some of these devices and technologies allow users to view television or motion pictures from a remote location 30 Table of Contents or on a time-delayed basis and provide users the ability to fast-forward, rewind, pause and skip programming and advertisements. These technological developments are increasing the number of media and entertainment choices available to audiences and may cause changes in consumer behavior that could affect the attractiveness of the Company’s offerings to viewers, advertisers and/or distributors. A decrease in advertising expenditures or reduced demand for the Company’s offerings can lead to a reduction in pricing and advertising spending, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s businesses and assets. Global Economic Conditions May Have a Continuing Adverse Effect on the Company’s Business. The United States and global economies have undergone a period of economic uncertainty, which caused, among other things, a general tightening in the credit markets, limited access to the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, lower consumer and business spending and lower consumer net worth. The resulting pressure on the labor and retail markets and the downturn in consumer confidence weakened the economic climate in certain markets in which the Company does business and has had and may continue to have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. A continued decline in these economic conditions could further impact the Company’s business, reduce the Company’s advertising and other revenues and negatively impact the performance of its motion pictures and home entertainment releases, television operations, newspapers, books and other consumer products. In addition, these conditions could also impair the ability of those with whom the Company does business to satisfy their obligations to the Company. As a result, the Company’s results of operations may be adversely affected. Although the Company believes that its operating cash flow and current access to capital and credit markets, including the Company’s existing credit facility, will give it the ability to meet its financial needs for the foreseeable future, there can be no assurance that continued or increased volatility and disruption in the global capital and credit markets will not impair the Company’s liquidity or increase its cost of borrowing. Acceptance of the Company’s Film and Television Programming by the Public is Difficult to Predict, Which Could Lead to Fluctuations in Revenues. Feature film and television production and distribution are speculative businesses since the revenues derived from the production and distribution of a feature film or television series depend primarily upon its acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. The commercial success of a feature film or television series also depends upon the quality and acceptance of other competing films and television series released into the marketplace at or near the same time, the availability of a growing number of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions and their effects on consumer spending and other tangible and intangible factors, all of which can change and cannot be predicted with certainty. Further, the theatrical success of a feature film and the audience ratings for a television series are generally key factors in generating revenues from other distribution channels, such as home entertainment and premium pay television, with respect to feature films, and syndication, with respect to television series. The Company Could Suffer Losses Due to Asset Impairment Charges for Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Programming. In accordance with applicable generally accepted accounting principles, the Company performs an annual impairment assessment of its recorded goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, including FCC licenses and mastheads, during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. The Company also continually evaluates whether current factors or indicators, such as the prevailing conditions in the capital markets, require the performance of an interim impairment assessment of those assets, as well as other investments and other long-lived assets. Any significant shortfall, now or in the future, in advertising revenue and/or the expected popularity of the programming for which the Company has acquired rights could lead to a downward revision in the fair value of certain reporting units, particularly those in the Publishing, Television and Cable Network Programming segments. A downward revision in the fair value of a reporting unit, indefinite-lived intangible assets, investments or long-lived assets could result in an impairment and a non-cash charge would be required. Any such charge could be material to the Company’s reported net earnings. 31 Table of Contents Fluctuations in Foreign Exchange Rates Could Have an Adverse Effect on the Company’s Results of Operations. The Company has significant operations in a number of foreign jurisdictions and certain of the Company operations are conducted in foreign currencies. The value of these currencies fluctuates relative to the U.S. dollar. As a result, the Company is exposed to exchange rate fluctuations, which could have an adverse effect on its results of operations in a given period or in specific markets. The Loss of Carriage Agreements Could Cause the Company’s Revenue and Operating Results to Decline Significantly in any Given Period or in Specific Markets. The Company is dependent upon the maintenance of affiliation agreements with third party owned television stations and there can be no assurance that these affiliation agreements will be renewed in the future on terms acceptable to the Company. The loss of a significant number of these affiliation arrangements could reduce the distribution of FOX and MyNetworkTV and adversely affect the Company’s ability to sell national and local advertising time. Similarly, the Company’s cable networks maintain affiliation and carriage arrangements that enable them to reach a large percentage of cable and direct broadcast satellite households across the United States. The loss of a significant number of these arrangements or the loss of carriage on basic programming tiers could reduce the distribution of the Company’s cable networks, which may adversely affect those networks’ revenues from subscriber fees and their ability to sell national and local advertising time. The Inability to Renew Sports Programming Rights Could Cause the Company’s Advertising Revenue to Decline Significantly in any Given Period or in Specific Markets. The sports rights contracts between the Company, on the one hand, and various professional sports leagues and teams, on the other, have varying duration and renewal terms. As these contracts expire, renewals on favorable terms may be sought; however, third parties may outbid the current rights holders for the rights contracts. In addition, professional sports leagues or teams may create their own networks or the renewal costs could substantially exceed the original contract cost. The loss of rights could impact the extent of the sports coverage offered by the Company and its affiliates, as it relates to FOX, and could adversely affect the Company’s advertising and affiliate revenues. Upon renewal, the Company’s results could be adversely affected if escalations in sports programming rights costs are unmatched by increases in advertising rates and, in the case of cable networks, subscriber fees. The Company Relies on Network and Information Systems and Other Technology That May Be Subject to Disruption or Misuse, Which Could Result in Improper Disclosure of Personal Data or Confidential Information as well as Increased Costs or Loss of Revenue. Network and information systems and other technologies, including those related to our network management, are important to our business activities. Network and information systems-related events, such as computer hackings, computer viruses, worms or other destructive or disruptive software, process breakdowns, denial of service attacks, malicious social engineering or other malicious activities, or any combination of the foregoing, could result in a disruption of our services or improper disclosure of personal data or confidential information. Improper disclosure of such information could harm our reputation, require us to expend resources to remedy such a security breach or subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. Technological Developments May Increase the Threat of Content Piracy and Signal Theft and Limit the Company’s Ability to Protect Its Intellectual Property Rights. The Company seeks to limit the threat of content piracy and direct broadcast satellite programming signal theft; however, policing unauthorized use of the Company’s products and services and related intellectual property is often difficult and the steps taken by the Company may not in every case prevent the infringement by 32 Table of Contents unauthorized third parties. Developments in technology, including digital copying, file compressing and the growing penetration of high-bandwidth Internet connections, increase the threat of content piracy by making it easier to duplicate and widely distribute pirated material. In addition, developments in software or devices that circumvent encryption technology increase the threat of unauthorized use and distribution of direct broadcast satellite programming signals and the proliferation of user-generated content sites and live and stored video streaming sites, which deliver unauthorized copies of copyrighted content, including those emanating from other countries in various languages, may adversely impact the Company’s businesses. The Company has taken, and will continue to take, a variety of actions to combat piracy and signal theft, both individually and, in some instances, together with industry associations. However, protection of the Company’s intellectual property rights is dependent on the scope and duration of the Company’s rights as defined by applicable laws in the United States and abroad and the manner in which those laws are construed. If those laws are drafted or interpreted in ways that limit the extent or duration of the Company’s rights, or if existing laws are changed, the Company’s ability to generate revenue from intellectual property may decrease, or the cost of obtaining and maintaining rights may increase. There can be no assurance that the Company’s efforts to enforce its rights and protect its products, services and intellectual property will be successful in preventing content piracy or signal theft. Content piracy and signal theft present a threat to the Company’s revenues from products and services, including, but not limited to, films, television shows, books and direct broadcast satellite programming. The Company Must Respond to Changes in Consumer Behavior as a Result of New Technologies in Order to Remain Competitive. Technology, particularly digital technology used in the entertainment industry, continues to evolve rapidly, leading to alternative methods for the delivery and storage of digital content. These technological advancements have driven changes in consumer behavior and have empowered consumers to seek more control over when, where and how they consume digital content. Content owners are increasingly delivering their content directly to consumers over the Internet, often without charge, and innovations in distribution platforms have enabled consumers to view such Internet-delivered content on televisions and portable devices. There is a risk that the Company’s responses to these changes and strategies to remain competitive, including distribution of its content on a “pay” basis, may not be adopted by consumers. In addition, enhanced Internet capabilities and other new media may reduce television viewership, the demand for DVDs and Blu-rays, the desire to see motion pictures in theaters and the demand for newspapers, which could negatively affect the Company’s revenues. In publishing, the trending toward digital media may drive down the price consumers are willing to spend on our products disproportionately to the costs associated with generating literary content. The Company’s failure to protect and exploit the value of its content, while responding to and developing new technology and business models to take advantage of advancements in technology and the latest consumer preferences, could have a significant adverse effect on the Company’s businesses, asset values and results of operations. Labor Disputes May Have an Adverse Effect on the Company’s Business. In a variety of the Company’s businesses, the Company and its partners engage the services of writers, directors, actors and other talent, trade employees and others who are subject to collective bargaining agreements, including employees of the Company’s film and television studio operations and newspapers. If the Company or its partners are unable to renew expiring collective bargaining agreements, it is possible that the affected unions could take action in the form of strikes or work stoppages. Such actions, as well as higher costs in connection with these collective bargaining agreements or a significant labor dispute, could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business by causing delays in production or by reducing profit margins. Changes in U.S. or Foreign Regulations May Have an Adverse Effect on the Company’s Business. The Company is subject to a variety of U.S. and foreign regulations in the jurisdictions in which its businesses operate. In general, the television broadcasting and multichannel video programming and distribution industries in the United States are highly regulated by federal laws and regulations issued and administered by 33 Table of Contents various federal agencies, including the FCC. The FCC generally regulates, among other things, the ownership of media, broadcast and multichannel video programming and technical operations of broadcast licensees. Our program services and online properties are subject to a variety of laws and regulations, including those relating to issues such as content regulation, user privacy and data protection, and consumer protection, among others. Further, the United States Congress, the FCC and state legislatures currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters, including technological changes and measures relating to privacy and data security, which could, directly or indirectly, affect the operations and ownership of the Company’s U.S. media properties. Similarly, changes in regulations imposed by governments in other jurisdictions in which the Company, or entities in which the Company has an interest, operate could adversely affect its business and results of operations. In addition, changes in tax laws, regulations or the interpretations thereof in the U.S. and other jurisdictions in which the Company has operations could affect the Company’s results of operations. U.S. Citizenship Requirements May Limit Common Stock Ownership and Voting Rights. The Company owns broadcast station licensees in connection with its ownership and operation of U.S. television stations. Under U.S. law, no broadcast station licensee may be owned by a corporation if more than 25% of its stock is owned or voted by non-U.S. persons, their representatives, or by any other corporation organized under the laws of a foreign country. The Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the Board to prevent, cure or mitigate the effect of stock ownership above the applicable foreign ownership threshold by taking any action including: refusing to permit any transfer of common stock to or ownership of common stock by a non-U.S. stockholder; voiding a transfer of common stock to a non-U.S. stockholder; suspending rights of stock ownership if held by a non-U.S. stockholder; or redeeming common stock held by a non-U.S. stockholder. On April 18, 2012, the Company announced that it had determined that approximately 36% of the Company’s Class B Common Stock is owned by non-U.S. stockholders, and the combined ownership of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock by non-U.S. stockholders is approximately 22% of the combined outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. In order to ensure compliance with U.S. law, the Company suspended 50% of the voting rights of the Class B Common Stock held by non-U.S. stockholders. This suspension will remain in place for as long as the Company deems it necessary to maintain compliance with applicable U.S. law. The Company is not able to predict whether it will need to adjust the suspension or whether additional action pursuant to its Restated Certificate of Incorporation may be necessary. The FCC could review the Company’s compliance with applicable U.S. law in connection with its consideration of the Company’s renewal applications for licenses to operate the broadcast stations the Company owns. We Face Criminal Investigations Regarding Allegations of Phone Hacking and Inappropriate Payments to Public Officials and Other Related Matters and Related Civil Lawsuits. U.K. and U.S. regulators and governmental authorities are conducting investigations initiated in 2011 after allegations of phone hacking and inappropriate payments to public officials at our former publication, The News of the World, and other related matters, including investigations into whether similar conduct may have occurred at the Company’s subsidiaries outside of the U.K. The Company is cooperating fully with these investigations. The Company has admitted liability in a number of civil cases related to the phone hacking allegations and has settled a number of cases. The Company has announced a process under which parties can pursue claims against the Company, and management believes that it is probable that additional claims will be filed. We are not able to predict the ultimate outcome or cost of the investigations. Violations of law may result in civil, administrative or criminal fines or penalties. It is also possible that these proceedings could damage our reputation and might impair our ability to conduct our business. Any fees, expenses, fines, penalties, judgments or settlements which might be incurred by the Company in connection with the various proceedings could affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. 34 Table of Contents The Proposed Separation of the Company’s Publishing and Media and Entertainment Businesses into Two Distinct Publicly Traded Companies May Not Be Completed on the Terms or Timeline Currently Contemplated, If At All. In June 2012, the Company announced its intention to pursue the separation of its publishing and media and entertainment businesses into two distinct publicly traded companies (the “Proposed Separation Transaction”). Unanticipated developments could delay or negatively impact the Proposed Separation Transaction, including those related to the filing and effectiveness of appropriate filings with the SEC, obtaining favorable rulings from certain tax jurisdictions regarding the tax-free nature of the transaction to the Company and its stockholders, obtaining opinions from tax counsel and regulatory approvals, completing further due diligence as appropriate, and changes in market conditions, among other things. In addition, consummation of the Proposed Separation Transaction will require final approval from the Company’s Board of Directors and stockholders. Therefore, we cannot assure that we will be able to complete the Proposed Separation Transaction on the terms or on the timeline that we announced, if at all. We are actively engaged in planning for the Proposed Separation Transaction. We expect to incur expenses in connection with the Proposed Separation Transaction and any delays in the anticipated completion of the Proposed Separation Transaction may increase these expenses. In addition, completion of the Proposed Separation Transaction will require significant amounts of our management’s time and effort which may divert management’s attention from our businesses. The Proposed Separation Transaction may result in the division of key employees into the two separate public companies which may create a knowledge and skill gap. Further, shares of our common stock will represent an investment in two smaller separate public companies. These changes may not meet some stockholders’ investment strategies, which could cause investors to sell their shares of our common stock in either company. Excessive selling could cause the relative market price of common stock in either or both companies to decrease following completion of the Proposed Separation Transaction. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 