D. Risk factors Some of the following risks relate principally to the industries in which we operate and our business in general. Other risks relate principally to the securities market and ownership of our common stock. The occurrence of any of the events described in this section could significantly and negatively affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows or our ability to pay dividends, if any, in the future, or the trading price of our common stock. 4 Table of Contents International Drybulk Shipping Industry Specific Risk Factors While the drybulk carrier charter market has recently strengthened, it remains significantly below the high in 2008, which has adversely affected our revenues, earnings and profitability and our ability to comply with our loan covenants. The drybulk shipping industry is cyclical with attendant volatility in charter hire rates and profitability. For example, the degree of charter hire rate volatility among different types of drybulk carriers has varied widely. The Baltic Drybulk Index, or BDI, declined from a high of 11,793 in May 2008 to a low of 663 in December 2008, which represents a decline of 94%. Over the comparable period of May through December 2008, the high and low of the Baltic Panamax Index and the Baltic Capesize Index represent a decline of 96% and 99%, respectively. During 2009 the BDI increased from a low of 772 and reached a high of 4,661 in November of 2009. In 2010, the BDI increased from 3,235 in January 2010 to a high of 4,209 in May 2010 and subsequently decreased to a low of 1,700 in July 2010. Following a short period of increase in the third quarter of 2010, the BDI fell to near July 2010 levels at the end of 2010. The BDI has further decreased in 2011 to 1,376 , as of April 12, 2011. The decline and volatility in charter rates has been due to various factors, including the lack of trade financing for purchases of commodities carried by sea, which had resulted in a significant decline in cargo shipments. In 2009 Chinese iron ore imports increased by 41% compared to 2008 and coal imports rose by 210% in the same period. The decline and volatility in charter rates in the drybulk market also affects the value of our drybulk vessels, which follows the trends of drybulk charter rates, and earnings on our charters, and similarly, affects our cash flows, liquidity and compliance with the covenants contained in our loan agreements. We employed 30 of the 35 vessels in our drybulk carrier fleet on time charters and one vessel on bareboat charter at fixed rates and five vessels in the spot market as of April 12, 2011. Three of our drybulk carriers are employed on short term (spot) charters to Korea Lines Corporation, which has entered into a rehabilitation proceeding under the protection of the Korean Courts. See Item 4.B “Business Overview - Recent Developments.” If low charter rates in the drybulk market decline further for any significant period, this would have an adverse effect on our vessel values and our ability to comply with the financial covenants in our loan agreements. In such a situation, unless our lenders were willing to provide waivers of covenant compliance or modifications to our covenants, our lenders could accelerate our debt and we could face the loss of our vessels. We may not be able to successfully charter our vessels in the future or renew existing charters at rates sufficient to allow us to meet our obligations. Because the factors affecting the supply and demand for vessels are outside of our control and are unpredictable, the nature, timing, direction and degree of changes in industry conditions are also unpredictable. Factors that influence demand for vessel capacity include: • supply and demand for energy resources, commodities, semi-finished and finished consumer and industrial products; • changes in the exploration or production of energy resources, commodities, semi-finished and finished consumer and industrial products; • the location of regional and global exploration, production and manufacturing facilities; • the location of consuming regions for energy resources, commodities, semi-finished and finished consumer and industrial products; • the globalization of production and manufacturing; • global and regional economic and political conditions, including armed conflicts, terrorist activities, embargoes and strikes; • developments in international trade; • changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including the distance cargo is transported by sea; • environmental and other regulatory developments; • currency exchange rates; and • weather. 5 Table of Contents The factors that influence the supply of vessel capacity include: • the number of newbuilding deliveries; • port and canal congestion; • the scrapping rate of older vessels; • vessel casualties; and • the number of vessels that are out of service. We anticipate that the future demand for our drybulk carriers will be dependent upon continued economic growth in the world’s economies, including China and India, seasonal and regional changes in demand, changes in the capacity of the global drybulk carrier fleet and the sources and supply of drybulk cargoes to be transported by sea. The capacity of the global drybulk carrier fleet seems likely to increase and economic growth may not continue. Adverse economic, political, social or other developments could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. An over-supply of drybulk carrier capacity may lead to reductions in charter hire rates and profitability. The market supply of drybulk carriers has been increasing, and the number of drybulk carriers on order is near historic highs. These newbuildings were delivered in significant numbers starting at the beginning of 2006 and through 2009. As of April 12, 2011, newbuilding orders had been placed for an aggregate of more than 49.4% of the existing global drybulk fleet, with deliveries expected during the next three years. An over-supply of drybulk carrier capacity may result in a reduction of charter hire rates. If such a reduction occurs, upon the expiration or termination of our vessels’ current charters we may only be able to re-charter our vessels at reduced or unprofitable rates or we may not be able to charter these vessels at all. The market values of our vessels may decrease, which could limit the amount of funds that we can borrow or trigger certain financial covenants under our current or future credit facilities and or we may incur a loss if we sell vessels following a decline in their market value. The fair market values of our vessels are related to prevailing freight charter rates. While the fair market value of vessels and the freight charter market have a very close relationship as the charter market moves from trough to peak, the time lag between the effect of charter rates on market values of ships can vary. The fair market value of our vessels may increase and decrease depending on a number of factors including: • prevailing level of charter rates; • general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry; • types and sizes of vessels; • supply and demand for vessels; • other modes of transportation; • cost of newbuildings; • governmental and other regulations; and • technological advances. In addition, as vessels grow older, they generally decline in value. If the fair market value of our vessels declines, we may not be in compliance with certain provisions of our credit facilities, and our lenders could accelerate our indebtedness or require us to pay down our indebtedness to a level where we are again in compliance with our loan covenants. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not be able to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing. In addition, if we sell one or more of our vessels at a time when vessel prices have fallen and before we have recorded an impairment adjustment to our consolidated financial statements, the sale may be less than the vessel’s carrying value on our consolidated financial statements, resulting in a loss and a reduction in earnings. Furthermore, if vessel values fall significantly we may have to record an impairment adjustment in our financial statements which could adversely affect our financial results. 6 Table of Contents An economic slowdown in the Asia Pacific region could exacerbate the effect of recent slowdowns in the economies of the European Union and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We anticipate a significant number of the port calls made by our vessels will continue to involve the loading or discharging of drybulk commodities in ports in the Asia Pacific region. As a result, any negative changes in economic conditions in any Asia Pacific country, particularly in China, may exacerbate the effect of recent slowdowns in the economies of the European Union and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as our future prospects. Before the global economic financial crisis that began in 2008, China had one of the world’s fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product (“GDP”) which had a significant impact on shipping demand. While the growth rate of China’s GDP increased to approximately 10.3% for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to approximately 9.1% for the year ended December 31, 2009, the Chinese GDP growth rate remains below pre-2008 levels. China has recently imposed measures to restrain lending, which may further contribute to a slowdown in its economic growth. It is possible that China and other countries in the Asia Pacific region will continue to experience slowed or even negative economic growth in the near future. Moreover, the current economic slowdown in the economies of the European Union and other Asian countries may further adversely affect economic growth in China and elsewhere. Our business, financial condition and results of operations, ability to pay dividends as well as our future prospects, will likely be materially and adversely affected by a further economic downturn in any of these countries. The earthquake and resulting tsunami and nuclear power plant crisis that struck Japan in March 2011 could, in the near term, reduce drybulk trade to and from Japan, affect global charter rates and adversely affect our business. In March 2011, a severe earthquake struck northern Japan. The earthquake created a severe tsunami, the effects of which were felt in Japan and other countries along the eastern cost of Asia and across the Pacific Ocean. In addition, the earthquake and resulting tsunami have caused several nuclear power plants located in Japan to fail and emit radiation which possibly could result in meltdowns that could have catastrophic effects. The full effect of these disasters, both on the Japanese and global economies and the environment, are not currently known, and may not be known for a significant period of time. These disasters will likely result in less drybulk trade to and from Japan, in the short term, and could reduce charter rates globally in the short term. In addition, there can be no assurances that vessels trading in the Pacific may not be impacted by the possible effects of spreading radiation. These disasters and the resulting economic effects, both in the region and globally, could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Changes in the economic and political environment in China and policies adopted by the government to regulate its economy may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in such respects as structure, government involvement, level of development, growth rate, capital reinvestment, allocation of resources, rate of inflation and balance of payments position. Prior to 1978, the Chinese economy was a planned economy. Since 1978, increasing emphasis has been placed on the utilization of market forces in the development of the Chinese economy. Annual and five-year state plans are adopted by the Chinese government in connection with the development of the economy. Although state-owned enterprises still account for a substantial portion of the Chinese industrial output, in general, the Chinese government is reducing the level of direct control that it exercises over the economy through state plans and other measures. There is an increasing level of freedom and autonomy in areas such as allocation of resources, production, pricing and management and a gradual shift in emphasis to a “market economy” and enterprise reform. Limited price reforms were undertaken with the result that prices for certain commodities are principally determined by market forces. Many of the reforms are unprecedented or experimental and may be subject to revision, change or abolition based upon the outcome of such experiments. If the Chinese government does not continue to pursue a policy of economic reform, the level of imports to and exports from China could be adversely affected by changes to these economic reforms by the Chinese government, as well as by changes in political, economic and social conditions or other relevant policies of the Chinese government, such as changes in laws, regulations or export and import restrictions, all of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Disruptions in world financial markets and the resulting governmental action in the United States and in other parts of the world could have a further material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and could cause the market price of our common stock to further decline. Recently, the United States and other parts of the world have exhibited weak economic conditions and were in a recession. For example, the credit markets in the United States have experienced significant contraction, de-leveraging and reduced liquidity, and the 7 Table of Contents United States federal government and state governments have implemented and are considering a broad variety of governmental action and/or new regulation of the financial markets. Securities and futures markets and the credit markets are subject to comprehensive statutes, regulations and other requirements. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), other regulators, self-regulatory organizations and exchanges are authorized to take extraordinary actions in the event of market emergencies, and may effect changes in law or interpretations of existing laws. The uncertainty surrounding the future of the credit markets in the United States and the rest of the world has resulted in reduced access to credit worldwide. As of December 31, 2010, we had total long term gross debt outstanding of $2.9 billion, of which $2.2 billion represents secured bank debt and $0.7 billion represents unsecured convertible bonds. We face risks attendant to changes in economic environments, changes in interest rates, and instability in the banking and securities markets around the world, among other factors. Major market disruptions and the current adverse changes in market conditions and regulatory climate in the United States and worldwide may adversely affect our business or impair our ability to borrow amounts under our credit facilities or any future financial arrangements. We cannot predict how long the current market conditions will last. However, these recent and developing economic and governmental factors, together with the concurrent decline in charter rates and vessel values, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, have caused the price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market to decline and could cause the price of our common stock to decline further. Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels have recently increased in frequency, which could adversely affect our business. Acts of piracy have historically affected ocean-going vessels trading in regions of the world such as the South China Sea and in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. Throughout 2008 and 2009, the frequency of piracy incidents increased significantly, particularly in the Gulf of Aden. For example, in November 2008, the MV Sirius Star, a tanker vessel not affiliated with us, was captured by pirates in the Indian Ocean while carrying crude oil estimated to be worth $100 million and was released in January 2009 upon a ransom payment of $3 million. In February 2009, the vessel MV Saldanha, which is owned by our subsidiary, Team-Up Owning Company Limited, was seized by pirates while transporting coal through the Gulf of Aden. In April 2009, the Maersk Alabama, a 17,000-ton containership not affiliated with us, was seized by Somali pirates. Both of these ships were later released. If these piracy attacks result in regions in which our vessels are deployed being characterized by insurers as “war risk” zones, as the Gulf of Aden temporarily was in May 2008, or Joint War Committee “war and strikes” listed areas, premiums payable for such insurance coverage could increase significantly and such insurance coverage may be more difficult to obtain. Crew costs, including those due to employing onboard security guards, could increase in such circumstances. In addition, while we believe the charterer remains liable for charter payments when a vessel is seized by pirates, the charterer may dispute this and withhold charter hire until the vessel is released. A charterer may also claim that a vessel seized by pirates was not “on-hire” for a certain number of days and it is therefore entitled to cancel the charter party, a claim that we would dispute. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, detention hijacking as a result of an act of piracy against our vessels, or an increase in cost, or unavailability of insurance for our vessels, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The U.S. government recently imposed legislation concerning the deteriorating situation in Somalia, including acts of piracy offshore Somalia. On April 13, 2010, the President of the United States issued an Executive Order, which we refer to as the Order, prohibiting, among other things, the payment of monies to or for the benefit of individuals and entities on the list of Specially Designated Nationals (“SDNs”) published by U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control. Certain individuals associated with piracy offshore Somalia are currently designated persons under the SDN list. The Order is applicable only to payments by U.S. persons and not by foreign entities such as DryShips Inc. Notwithstanding this fact, it is possible that the Order, and the regulations promulgated thereunder, may affect foreign private issuers to the extent that such foreign private issuers provide monies, such as ransom payments to secure the release of crews and ships in the event of detention hijackings, to any SDN for which they seek reimbursement from a U.S. insurance carrier. While additional regulations relating to the Order may be promulgated by the U.S. government in the future, we cannot predict what effect these regulations may have on our operations. World events could affect our results of operations and financial condition. Terrorist attacks such as those in New York on September 11, 2001, in Spain on March 11, 2004, in London on July 7, 2005 and in Mumbai in 2008 and the continuing response of the United States to these attacks, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks in the United States or elsewhere, continues to cause uncertainty in the world’s financial markets and may affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The continuing conflicts in Afghanistan and Iraq may lead to additional acts of terrorism and armed conflict around the world, which may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. These 8 Table of Contents uncertainties could also adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. In the past, political conflicts have also resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Arabian Gulf region. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our operating results, revenues and costs. Terrorist attacks on vessels, such as the October 2002 attack on the VLCC Limburg, a vessel not related to us, may in the future also negatively affect our operations and financial condition and directly impact our vessels or our customers. Future terrorist attacks could result in increased volatility of the financial markets in the United States and globally and may impact the economic recession in the United States and other countries. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our revenues and costs. Our revenues are subject to seasonal fluctuations, which could affect our operating results and our ability to pay dividends, if any, in the future. We operate our vessels in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand and, as a result, in charter hire rates. This seasonality may result in quarter-to-quarter volatility in our operating results, which could affect our ability to pay dividends, if any, in the future from quarter to quarter. The drybulk carrier market is typically stronger in the fall and winter months in anticipation of increased consumption of coal and other raw materials in the northern hemisphere during the winter months. In addition, unpredictable weather patterns in these months tend to disrupt vessel scheduling and supplies of certain commodities. As a result, our revenues have historically been weaker during the fiscal quarters ended June 30 and September 30, and, conversely, our revenues have historically been stronger in fiscal quarters ended December 31 and March 31. This seasonality may adversely affect our operating results and our ability to pay dividends, if any, in the future. Rising fuel prices may adversely affect our profits. While we do not directly bear the cost of fuel or bunkers under our time and bareboat charters, fuel is a significant, if not the largest, expense in our shipping operations when vessels are under spot charter. Changes in the price of fuel may adversely affect our profitability. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”) and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. Further, fuel may become much more expensive in the future, which may reduce the profitability and competitiveness of our business versus other forms of transportation, such as truck or rail. We are subject to international safety regulations and the failure to comply with these regulations may subject us to increased liability, may adversely affect our insurance coverage and may result in our vessels being denied access to, or detained in, certain ports. Our business and the operation of our drybulk vessels and tankers are materially affected by government regulation in the form of international conventions, national, state and local laws and regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which the vessels operate, as well as in the country or countries of their registration. Because such conventions, laws, and regulations are often revised, we cannot predict the ultimate cost of complying with such conventions, laws and regulations or the impact thereof on the resale prices or useful lives of our vessels. Additional conventions, laws and regulations may be adopted which could limit our ability to do business or increase the cost of our doing business and which may materially adversely affect our operations. We are required by various governmental and quasi governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses, certificates, and financial assurances with respect to our operations. In addition, vessel classification societies also impose significant safety and other requirements on our vessels. In complying with current and future environmental requirements, vessel-owners and operators may also incur significant additional costs in meeting new maintenance and inspection requirements, in developing contingency arrangements for potential spills and in obtaining insurance coverage. Government regulation of vessels, particularly in the areas of safety and environmental requirements, can be expected to become stricter in the future and require us to incur significant capital expenditures on our vessels to keep them in compliance. The operation of our vessels is also affected by the requirements set forth in the United Nations’ International Maritime Organization’s (the “IMO’s”) International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and Pollution Prevention (the “ISM Code”). The ISM Code requires shipowners, ship managers and bareboat charterers to develop and maintain an extensive “Safety Management System” that includes the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for safe operation and describing procedures for dealing with emergencies. Each of the vessels that has been delivered to us is ISM Code-certified and we expect that any vessels that we acquire in the future will be ISM Code-certified when delivered to us. The failure of a shipowner or bareboat charterer to comply with the ISM Code may subject it to increased liability, may invalidate 9 Table of Contents existing insurance or decrease available insurance coverage for the affected vessels and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. If we are subject to increased liability for non-compliance or if our insurance coverage is adversely impacted as a result of non-compliance, it may negatively affect our ability to pay dividends, if any, in the future. If any of our vessels are denied access to, or are detained in, certain ports, this may decrease our revenues. We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations in the form of international conventions and treaties, national, state and local laws and national and international regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which our drybulk and tanker vessels operate or are registered, which can significantly affect the ownership and operation of those vessels. These requirements include, but are not limited to, the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage of 1969, the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships of 1975, the International Convention for the Prevention of Marine Pollution of 1973, the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea of 1974, the International Convention on Load Lines of 1966, the U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (“OPA”) the U.S. Clean Air Act, the U.S. Clean Water Act and the U.S. Marine Transportation Security Act of 2002. Compliance with such laws, regulations and standards, where applicable, may require installation of costly equipment or operational changes and may affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels. We may also incur additional costs in order to comply with other existing and future regulatory obligations, including, but not limited to, costs relating to air emissions, the management of ballast waters, maintenance and inspection, elimination of tin-based paint, development and implementation of emergency procedures and insurance coverage or other financial assurance of our ability to address pollution incidents. These costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. A failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of our operations. Environmental laws often impose strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances, which could subject us to liability without regard to whether we were negligent or at fault. Under OPA, for example, owners, operators and bareboat charterers are jointly and severally strictly liable for the discharge of oil within the 200-mile exclusive economic zone around the United States. An oil spill could result in significant liability, including fines, penalties and criminal liability and remediation costs for natural resource damages under other federal, state and local laws, as well as third-party damages. The April 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico may also result in additional laws or regulatory initiatives, including the raising of liability caps under OPA that may affect our operations or require us to incur additional expenses to comply with such regulatory initiatives. We are required to satisfy insurance and financial responsibility requirements for potential oil (including marine fuel) spills and other pollution incidents. TMS Bulkers Ltd. (“TMS Bulkers”), managers of the MV Oliva, one of our Panamax drybulk carriers, reported that on March 16, 2011, the vessel ran aground at Nightingale Island, which is part of the “Tristan Da Cunha” group of islands in the South Atlantic Ocean. At the time of the incident the vessel was on its way from Santos, Brazil to China, loaded with 65,266 metric tons of soya beans. The following day the vessel broke in two. Both the vessel and the cargo are lost and are considered to be actual total losses for insurance purposes. In addition, bunkers leaked from the damaged hull, which has affected the local birdlife and marine environment. There were no injuries to the 22 crew members on board. TMS Bulkers activated its Emergency Response Plan and has deployed all appropriate resources in close cooperation with the local authorities to mitigate the damage arising from this accident. That response has included the attendance of a large local vessel, which was joined a few days later by a salvage tug with appropriate equipment for bird rehabilitation and oil clean-up operations, as well as salvage operations. A second tug and a small general cargo vessel also have been chartered to deliver additional equipment and a team of specialists from The Southern African Foundation for the Conservation of Coastal Birds (the “SANCCOB”). Oil pollution experts International Tanker Operators Pollution Federation (“ITOPF”) have been coordinating the response to the casualty, in conjunction with TMS Bulkers and the vessel’s Protection & Indemnity liability insurers (Gard). The vessel’s hull was fully insured and the Hull & Machinery insurers were notified of the loss. We and our liability insurers are in the process of determining the potential liabilities arising from the accident and the amounts involved. We anticipate that the majority of its costs and losses will be covered by our insurance. Although we have arranged insurance to cover certain environmental risks, such insurance may not be sufficient to cover all such risks. As a result, claims against us, including claims that may be made against us as a result of the grounding of the vessel MV Oliva described above, could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends, if any, in the future. Increased inspection procedures and tighter import and export controls could increase costs and disrupt our business. International shipping is subject to various security and customs inspections and related procedures in countries of origin, destination and trans-shipment points. Inspection procedures may result in the seizure of the contents of our vessels, delays in the loading, offloading or delivery of our vessels and the levying of customs duties, fines or other penalties against us. 10 Table of Contents It is possible that changes to inspection procedures could impose additional financial and legal obligations on us. Changes to inspection procedures could also impose additional costs and obligations on our customers and may, in certain cases, render the shipment of certain types of cargo uneconomical or impractical. Any such changes or developments may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Maritime claimants could arrest one or more of our vessels, which could interrupt our cash flow. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a claimant may seek to obtain security for its claim by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our cash flow and require us to pay large sums of money to have the arrest or attachment lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the “sister ship” theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant’s maritime lien and any “associated” vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could attempt to assert “sister ship” liability against a vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another of our vessels. Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency, resulting in a loss of earnings. A government could requisition one or more of our vessels for title or for hire. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes her owner, while requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes her charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during periods of war or emergency, although governments may elect to requisition vessels in other circumstances. Although we would be entitled to compensation in the event of a requisition of one or more of our vessels, the amount and timing of payment would be uncertain. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels may negatively impact our revenues and reduce the amount of dividends, if any, in the future. In the highly competitive international shipping industry, we may not be able to compete for charters with new entrants or established companies with greater resources and, as a result, we may be unable to employ our vessels profitably. We employ our vessels in a highly competitive market that is capital intensive and highly fragmented. Competition arises primarily from other vessel owners, some of whom have substantially greater resources than we do. Competition for the transportation of drybulk cargo by sea is intense and depends on price, location, size, age, condition and the acceptability of the vessel and its operators to the charterers. Due in part to the highly fragmented market, competitors with greater resources could enter the drybulk shipping industry and operate larger fleets through consolidations or acquisitions and may be able to offer lower charter rates and higher quality vessels than we are able to offer. If we are unable to successfully compete with other drybulk shipping companies, this would have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Risks associated with operating ocean-going vessels could affect our business and reputation, which could adversely affect our revenues and stock price. The operation of ocean-going vessels carries inherent risks. These risks include the possibility of: • marine disaster; • environmental accidents; • cargo and property losses or damage; • business interruptions caused by mechanical failure, human error, war, terrorism, political action in various countries, labor strikes or adverse weather conditions; and • piracy. The involvement of our vessels in an environmental disaster may harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator. Any of these circumstances or events could increase our costs or lower our revenues. The shipping industry has inherent operational risks that may not be adequately covered by our insurance. We procure insurance for our fleet against risks commonly insured against by vessel owners and operators. Our current insurance includes hull and machinery insurance, war risks insurance and protection and indemnity insurance (which includes environmental damage and pollution insurance). We may not be adequately insured against all risks or our insurers may not pay a particular claim. Even if our insurance coverage is adequate to cover our losses, we may not be able to timely obtain a replacement vessel in the event of a loss. Furthermore, in the future, we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates for our fleet. We may also be subject to calls, or premiums, in amounts based not only on our own claim records but also the claim records of all other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive indemnity insurance coverage for tort liability. Our insurance policies also contain deductibles, limitations and exclusions which, although we believe are standard in the shipping industry, may nevertheless increase our costs. 11 Table of Contents The operation of drybulk carriers has certain unique operational risks. The operation of certain ship types, such as drybulk carriers, has certain unique risks. With a drybulk carrier, the cargo itself and its interaction with the ship can be a risk factor. By their nature, drybulk cargoes are often heavy, dense, easily shifted, and react badly to water exposure. In addition, drybulk carriers are often subjected to battering treatment during unloading operations with grabs, jackhammers (to pry encrusted cargoes out of the hold), and small bulldozers. This treatment may cause damage to the vessel. Vessels damaged due to treatment during unloading procedures may be more susceptible to breach to the sea. Furthermore, any defects or flaws in the design of a drybulk carrier may contribute to vessel damage. Hull breaches in drybulk carriers may lead to the flooding of the vessels holds. If a drybulk carrier suffers flooding in its forward holds, the bulk cargo may become so dense and waterlogged that its pressure may buckle the vessel’s bulkheads, leading to the loss of a vessel. If we are unable to adequately maintain our vessels we may be unable to prevent these events. Any of these circumstances or events could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends, if any, in the future. In addition, the loss of any of our vessels could harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator. Offshore Drilling Industry—Specific Risk Factors Our business in the offshore drilling sector depends on the level of activity in the offshore oil and gas industry, which is significantly affected by, among other things, volatile oil and gas prices and may be materially and adversely affected by a decline in the offshore oil and gas industry. The offshore contract drilling industry is cyclical and volatile. Our business in the offshore drilling sector depends on the level of activity in oil and gas exploration, development and production in offshore areas worldwide. The availability of quality drilling prospects, exploration success, relative production costs, the stage of reservoir development and political and regulatory environments affect customers’ drilling programs. Oil and gas prices and market expectations of potential changes in these prices also significantly affect this level of activity and demand for drilling units. Oil and gas prices are extremely volatile and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including the following: • worldwide production and demand for oil and gas; • the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and gas; • expectations regarding future energy prices; • advances in exploration, development and production technology; • the ability of OPEC to set and maintain levels and pricing; • the level of production in non-OPEC countries; • government regulations; • local and international political, economic and weather conditions; • domestic and foreign tax policies; • development and exploitation of alternative fuels; • the policies of various governments regarding exploration and development of their oil and gas reserves; and • the worldwide military and political environment, including uncertainty or instability resulting from an escalation or additional outbreak of armed hostilities or other crises in the Middle East or other geographic areas or further acts of terrorism in the United States, or elsewhere. Declines in oil and gas prices for an extended period of time, or market expectations of potential decreases in these prices, could negatively affect our business in the offshore drilling sector. Crude oil inventories remain at high levels compared to historical levels, which may place downward pressure on the price of crude oil and demand for offshore drilling units. Sustained periods of low 12 Table of Contents oil prices typically result in reduced exploration and drilling because oil and gas companies’ capital expenditure budgets are subject to their cash flow and are therefore sensitive to changes in energy prices. These changes in commodity prices can have a dramatic effect on rig demand, and periods of low demand can cause excess rig supply and intensify the competition in the industry which often results in drilling units, particularly lower specification drilling units, being idle for long periods of time. We cannot predict the future level of demand for our services or future conditions of the oil and gas industry. Any decrease in exploration, development or production expenditures by oil and gas companies could reduce our revenues and materially harm our business and results of operations. In addition to oil and gas prices, the offshore drilling industry is influenced by additional factors, including: • the availability of competing offshore drilling vessels; • the level of costs for associated offshore oilfield and construction services; • oil and gas transportation costs; • the discovery of new oil and gas reserves; • the cost of non-conventional hydrocarbons, such as the exploitation of oil sands; and • regulatory restrictions on offshore drilling. Any of these factors could reduce demand for our services and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Any renewal of the recent worldwide economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and financial position. Although there are signs that the economic recession has abated in many countries, there is still considerable instability in the world economy and in the economies of countries such as Greece, Spain, Portugal and Italy which could initiate a new economic downturn, or introduce volatility in the global markets. A decrease in global economic activity would likely reduce worldwide demand for energy and result in an extended period of lower crude oil and natural gas prices. In addition, continued hostilities in the Middle East, recent tensions in the Middle East and North Africa following the protests in Egypt and the occurrence or threat of terrorist attacks against the United States or other countries could adversely affect the economies of the United States and those of other countries. Any prolonged reduction in crude oil and natural gas prices would depress the levels of exploration, development and production activity. Moreover, even during periods of high commodity prices, customers may cancel or curtail their drilling programs, or reduce their levels of capital expenditures for exploration and production for a variety of reasons, including their lack of success in exploration efforts. These factors could cause our revenues and margins to decline, decrease daily rates and utilization of our drilling units and limit our future growth prospects. Any significant decrease in daily rates or utilization of our drilling units could materially reduce our revenues and profitability. In addition, any instability in the financial and insurance markets, as experienced in the recent financial and credit crisis, could make it more difficult for us to access capital and to obtain insurance coverage that we consider adequate or are otherwise required by our contracts. The offshore drilling industry is highly competitive and there is intense price competition, and as a result, we may be unable to compete successfully with other providers of contract drilling services that have greater resources than we have. The offshore contract drilling industry is highly competitive with several industry participants, none of which has a dominant market share, and is characterized by high capital and maintenance requirements. Drilling contracts are traditionally awarded on a competitive bid basis. Price competition is often the primary factor in determining which qualified contractor is awarded the drilling contract, although drilling unit availability, location and suitability, the quality and technical capability of service and equipment, reputation and industry standing are key factors which are considered. Mergers among oil and natural gas exploration and production companies have reduced, and may from time to time further reduce the number of available customers, which would increase the ability of potential customers to achieve pricing terms favorable to them. Many of our competitors in the offshore drilling industry are significantly larger than we are and have more diverse drilling assets and significantly greater financial and other resources than we have. In addition, because of the relatively small size of our drilling segment, we may be unable to take advantage of economies of scale to the same extent as some of our larger competitors. Given the high capital requirements that are inherent in the offshore drilling industry, we may also be unable to invest in new technologies or expand our drilling segment in the future as may be necessary for us to succeed in this industry, while our larger competitors with superior financial resources, and in many cases less leverage than we have, may be able to respond more rapidly to 13 Table of Contents changing market demands and compete more efficiently on price for drillship and drilling rig employment. We may not be able to maintain our competitive position, and we believe that competition for contracts will continue to be intense in the future. Our inability to compete successfully may reduce our revenues and profitability. An over-supply of drilling units may lead to a reduction in dayrates and therefore may materially impact our profitability in our offshore drilling segment. During the recent period of high utilization and high dayrates, industry participants have increased the supply of drilling units by ordering the construction of new drilling units. Historically, this has resulted in an over-supply of drilling units and has caused a subsequent decline in utilization and dayrates when the drilling units enter the market, sometimes for extended periods of time until the units have been absorbed into the active fleet. According to industry sources, the worldwide fleet of ultra-deepwater drilling units as of April 2011 consisted of 79 units, comprised of 42 semi-submersible rigs and 37 drillships. An additional 17 semi-submersible rigs and 40 drillships are under construction or on order as of April 2011, which would bring the total fleet to 136 drilling units by mid 2014. The entry into service of these new, upgraded or reactivated drilling units will increase supply and has already led to a reduction in dayrates as drilling units are absorbed into the active fleet. In addition, the new construction of high-specification rigs, as well as changes in our competitors’ drilling rig fleets, could require us to make material additional capital investments to keep our fleet competitive. Lower utilization and dayrates could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Prolonged periods of low utilization and dayrates could also result in the recognition of impairment charges on our drilling units if future cash flow estimates, based upon information available to management at the time, indicate that the carrying value of these drilling units may not be recoverable. The market value of our current drilling units and drilling units we may acquire in the future may decrease, which could cause us to incur losses if we decide to sell them following a decline in their market values. If the offshore contract drilling industry suffers adverse developments in the future, the fair market value of our drilling units may decline. The fair market value of the drilling units we currently own or may acquire in the future may increase or decrease depending on a number of factors, including: • prevailing level of drilling services contract dayrates; • general economic and market conditions affecting the offshore contract drilling industry, including competition from other offshore contract drilling companies; • types, sizes and ages of drilling units; • supply and demand for drilling units; • costs of newbuildings; • governmental or other regulations; and • technological advances. If we sell any drilling units when drilling unit prices have fallen and before we have recorded an impairment adjustment to our financial statements, the sale may be at less than the drilling unit’s carrying amount on our financial statements, resulting in a loss. Additionally, our lenders may accelerate loan repayments should there be a loss in the market value of our drilling units. Such loss or repayment could materially and adversely affect our business prospects, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations, and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. Consolidation of suppliers may increase the cost of obtaining supplies, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We rely on certain third parties to provide supplies and services necessary for our offshore drilling operations, including but not limited to drilling equipment suppliers, catering and machinery suppliers. Recent mergers have reduced the number of available suppliers, resulting in fewer alternatives for sourcing key supplies. Such consolidation, combined with a high volume of drilling units under construction, may result in a shortage of supplies and services thereby increasing the cost of supplies and/or potentially inhibiting the ability of suppliers to deliver on time. These cost increases or delays could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and result in rig downtime, and delays in the repair and maintenance of our drilling units. 14 Table of Contents Our international operations in the offshore drilling sector involve additional risks, including acts of piracy, which could adversely affect our business. We operate in various regions throughout the world. Our two existing drilling rigs, the Leiv Eiriksson and the Eirik Raude, are currently demobilizing from operations in the Black Sea and operating offshore of Ghana, respectively, and our drillships, the Ocean Rig Corcovado and the Ocean Rig Olympia, are scheduled to commence drilling and related operations in Greenland in May 2011 and offshore of Ghana and Cote d’Ivoire in the second quarter of 2011, respectively. In addition, our drillship, the Ocean Rig Poseidon, which is currently under construction, is scheduled to commence a contract in the third quarter of 2011 for drilling offshore of Tanzania and West Africa. In the past we have operated the Eirik Raude in the Gulf of Mexico, offshore of Canada, Norway, the U.K., and Ghana, while the Leiv Eiriksson has operated offshore of West Africa, Turkey, Ireland, west of the Shetland Islands and in the North Sea. Acts of piracy have historically affected ocean-going vessels trading in regions of the world such as the South China Sea and in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. Throughout 2008 and 2009, the frequency of piracy incidents increased significantly, particularly in the Gulf of Aden. As a result of our international operations, we may be exposed to political and other uncertainties, including risks of: • terrorist acts, war and civil disturbances; • piracy; • seizure, nationalization or expropriation of property or equipment; • repudiation, nullification, indemnification or reregulation of contracts; • limitations on insurance coverage, such as war risk coverage, in certain areas; • political unrest; • foreign and U.S. monetary policy and foreign currency fluctuations and devaluations; • the inability to repatriate income or capital; • complications associated with repairing and replacing equipment in remote locations; • import-export quotas, wage and price controls, imposition of trade barriers; • regulatory or financial requirements to comply with foreign bureaucratic actions; • changing taxation policies; • other forms of government regulation and economic conditions that are beyond our control; and • governmental corruption. We are indemnified to some extent against loss of capital assets, but generally not loss of revenue, from certain of these risks through provisions in our drilling contracts. In addition, international contract drilling operations are subject to various laws and regulations in countries in which we operate, including laws and regulations relating to: • the equipping and operation of drilling units; • repatriation of foreign earnings; • oil and gas exploration and development; • taxation of offshore earnings and earnings of expatriate personnel; and • use and compensation of local employees and suppliers by foreign contractors. Some foreign governments favor or effectively require (i) the awarding of drilling contracts to local contractors or to drilling units owned by their own citizens, (ii) the use of a local agent or (iii) foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. These practices may adversely affect our ability to compete in those regions. It is difficult to predict what governmental regulations may be enacted in the future that could adversely affect the international drilling industry. The actions of foreign governments, including initiatives by OPEC, may adversely affect our ability to compete. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including those relating to sanctions and export restrictions, may subject us to criminal sanctions or civil remedies, including fines, denial of export privileges, injunctions or seizures of our assets. 15 Table of Contents Our business and operations involve numerous operating hazards. Our offshore drilling operations are subject to hazards inherent in the drilling industry, such as blowouts, reservoir damage, loss of production, loss of well control, lost or stuck drill strings, equipment defects, punch throughs, craterings, fires, explosions and pollution, including spills similar to the events on April 20, 2010 related to the Deepwater Horizon, in which we were not involved. Contract drilling and well servicing require the use of heavy equipment and exposure to hazardous conditions, which may subject us to liability claims by employees, customers and third parties. These hazards can cause personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment, pollution or environmental damage, claims by third parties or customers and suspension of operations. Our offshore drilling segment is also subject to hazards inherent in marine operations, either while on-site or during mobilization, such as capsizing, sinking, grounding, collision, damage from severe weather and marine life infestations. Operations may also be suspended because of machinery breakdowns, abnormal drilling conditions, and failure of subcontractors to perform or supply goods or services, or personnel shortages. We customarily provide contract indemnity to our customers for claims that could be asserted by us relating to damage to or loss of our equipment, including rigs and claims that could be asserted by us or our employees relating to personal injury or loss of life. Damage to the environment could also result from our operations, particularly through spillage of fuel, lubricants or other chemicals and substances used in drilling operations, leaks and blowouts or extensive uncontrolled fires. We may also be subject to property, environmental and other damage claims by oil and gas companies. Our insurance policies and contractual indemnity rights with our customers may not adequately cover losses, and we do not have insurance coverage or rights to indemnity for all risks. Consistent with standard industry practice, our clients generally assume, and indemnify us against, well control and subsurface risks under dayrate contracts. These are risks associated with the loss of control of a well, such as blowout or cratering, the cost to regain control of or re-drill a well and associated pollution. However, there can be no assurance that these clients will be willing or financially able to indemnify us against all these risks. We have no insurance coverage for named storms in the Gulf of Mexico and war risk worldwide. Furthermore, pollution and environmental risks generally are not totally insurable. Our insurance coverage may not adequately protect us from certain operational risks inherent in the drilling industry. We maintain insurance for our drilling units in accordance with industry standards. Our insurance is intended to cover normal risks in our current operations, including insurance against property damage, occupational injury and illness, loss of hire, certain war risk and third-party liability, including pollution liability. Although we have obtained insurance for the full assessed market value of our drilling units, insurance coverage may not, under certain circumstances, be available, and if available, may not provide sufficient funds to protect us from all losses and liabilities that could result from our operations. We have also obtained loss of hire insurance which becomes effective after 45 days of downtime with coverage that extends for approximately one year. We received insurance payments under this policy when, in the first quarter of 2007, the Eirik Raude experienced 62 days of downtime operating offshore Newfoundland due to drilling equipment failure and hull structure repair that were the result of design issues. The principal risks which may not be insurable are various environmental liabilities and liabilities resulting from reservoir damage caused by our gross negligence. Moreover, our insurance provides for premium adjustments based on claims and is subject to deductibles and aggregate recovery limits. In the case of pollution liabilities, our deductible is $10,000 per event and $250,000 for protection and indemnity claims brought before any U.S. jurisdiction. Our aggregate recovery limits are $625 million for oil pollution and $500 million for all other claims under our protection and indemnity insurance which is provided by mutual protection and indemnity associations. Our deductible is $1.5 million per hull and machinery insurance claim. In addition, insurance policies covering physical damage claims due to a named windstorm in the Gulf of Mexico generally impose strict recovery limits, which may result in losses on any damage to our drilling units that may be operated in that region in the future. Our insurance coverage may not protect fully against losses resulting from a required cessation of rig operations for environmental or other reasons. Insurance may not be available to us at all or on terms acceptable to us, we may not maintain insurance or, if we are so insured, our policy may not be adequate to cover our loss or liability in all cases. The occurrence of a casualty, loss or liability against which we may not be fully insured could significantly reduce our revenues, make it financially impossible for us to obtain a replacement rig or to repair a damaged rig, cause us to pay fines or damages which are generally not insurable and that may have priority over the payment obligations under our indebtedness or otherwise impair our ability to meet our obligations under our indebtedness and to operate profitably. Governmental laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, may add to our costs or limit our drilling activity. Our business in the offshore drilling industry is affected by laws and regulations relating to the energy industry and the environment in the geographic areas where we operate. The offshore drilling industry is dependent on demand for services from the oil and gas exploration and production industry, and, accordingly, we are directly affected by the adoption of laws and regulations that, for economic, environmental or other policy reasons, curtail exploration and development drilling for oil and gas. We may be 16 Table of Contents required to make significant capital expenditures to comply with governmental laws and regulations. It is also possible that these laws and regulations may, in the future, add significantly to our operating costs or significantly limit drilling activity. Our ability to compete in international contract drilling markets may be limited by foreign governmental regulations that favor or require the awarding of contracts to local contractors or by regulations requiring foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. Governments in some countries are increasingly active in regulating and controlling the ownership of concessions, the exploration for oil and gas, and other aspects of the oil and gas industries. Offshore drilling in certain areas has been curtailed and, in certain cases, prohibited because of concerns over protection of the environment. Operations in less developed countries can be subject to legal systems that are not as mature or predictable as those in more developed countries, which can lead to greater uncertainty in legal matters and proceedings. To the extent new laws are enacted or other governmental actions are taken that prohibit or restrict offshore drilling or impose additional environmental protection requirements that result in increased costs to the oil and gas industry, in general, or the offshore drilling industry, in particular, our business or prospects could be materially adversely affected. The operation of our drilling units will require certain governmental approvals, the number and prerequisites of which cannot be determined until we identify the jurisdictions in which we will operate on securing contracts for the drilling units. Depending on the jurisdiction, these governmental approvals may involve public hearings and costly undertakings on our part. We may not obtain such approvals or such approvals may not be obtained in a timely manner. If we fail to timely secure the necessary approvals or permits, our customers may have the right to terminate or seek to renegotiate their drilling contracts to our detriment. The amendment or modification of existing laws and regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations curtailing or further regulating exploratory or development drilling and production of oil and gas could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Future earnings may be negatively affected by compliance with any such new legislation or regulations. We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations in the form of international conventions and treaties, national, state and local laws and national and international regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which our vessels operate or are registered, which can significantly affect the ownership and operation of our vessels. These requirements include, but are not limited to, the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage of 1969, the Convention on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by Dumping of Wastes and Other Matter of 1975, the International Convention for the Prevention of Marine Pollution of 1973, the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea of 1974, the International Convention on Load Lines of 1966, the U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, the U.S. Clean Air Act, U.S. Clean Water Act and the U.S. Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002. Compliance with such laws, regulations and standards, where applicable, may require installation of costly equipment or operational changes and may affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels. We may also incur additional costs in order to comply with other existing and future regulatory obligations, including, but not limited to, costs relating to air emissions, including greenhouse gases, the management of ballast waters, maintenance and inspection, development and implementation of emergency procedures and insurance coverage or other financial assurance of our ability to address pollution incidents. These costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. A failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of our operations. Environmental laws often impose strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances, which could subject us to liability without regard to whether we were negligent or at fault. Under OPA, for example, owners, operators and bareboat charterers are jointly and severally strictly liable for the discharge of oil in U.S. waters, including the 200-nautical mile exclusive economic zone around the United States. An oil spill could result in significant liability, including fines, penalties and criminal liability and remediation costs for natural resource damages under other international and U.S. federal, state and local laws, as well as third-party damages. We are required to satisfy insurance and financial responsibility requirements for potential oil (including marine fuel) spills and other pollution incidents. Although we have arranged insurance to cover certain environmental risks, such insurance may not be sufficient to cover all such risks. As a result, claims against us could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Although our drilling units are separately owned by our subsidiaries, under certain circumstances a parent company and all of the ship-owning affiliates in a group under common control engaged in a joint venture could be held liable for damages or debts owed by one of the affiliates, including liabilities for oil spills under OPA or other environmental laws. Therefore, it is possible that we could be subject to liability upon a judgment against us or any one of our subsidiaries. While we conduct planned and systematic maintenance on our drilling rigs in an effort to prevent the release of oil, waste and other pollutants into the sea and into protected areas, our predecessor caused the release of less than one cubic meter of hydraulic oil in the Barents Sea on April 12, 2005, and future releases could occur, especially as our drilling rigs age. Any releases may be large in quantity, above our permitted limits or occur in protected or sensitive areas where public interest groups or governmental authorities have special interests. No sanctions were imposed as a result of the Barents Sea release, but future releases could result in fines and 17 Table of Contents other costs to us, such as costs to upgrade our drilling rigs, clean up the releases, and comply with more stringent requirements in our discharge permits. Moreover, these releases may result in our customers or governmental authorities suspending or terminating our operations in the affected area, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. We expect that we will be able to obtain from our customers some degree of contractual indemnification against pollution and environmental damages in most of our contracts. But, such indemnification may not be enforceable in all instances or the customer may not be financially able to comply with its indemnity obligations in all cases. And, we may not be able to obtain such indemnification agreements in the future. We currently maintain insurance coverage against certain environmental liabilities, including pollution caused by sudden and accidental oil spills. However, such insurance coverage may not be available in the future or we may not obtain the coverage. If it is available and we have the coverage, it may not be adequate to cover our liabilities. Any of these scenarios could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Regulation of greenhouse gases and climate change could have a negative impact on our business. In 2005, the Kyoto Protocol to the 1992 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which establishes a binding set of targets for reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, became binding on all those countries that had ratified it. International discussions are currently underway to develop a treaty to replace the Kyoto Protocol after its expiration in 2012. Although the United States is not a party to the Kyoto Protocol, it has taken a number of steps to limit emissions of greenhouse gas emissions, including imposing reporting and permitting requirements on certain categories of sources. Because our business depends on the level of activity in the offshore oil and gas industry, existing or future laws, regulations, treaties or international agreements related to greenhouse gases and climate change, including incentives to conserve energy or use alternative energy sources, could have a negative impact on our business if such laws, regulations, treaties or international agreements reduce the worldwide demand for oil and gas. In addition, such laws, regulations, treaties or international agreements could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, which may have a negative impact on our business. The Deepwater Horizon oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico may result in more stringent laws and regulations governing deepwater drilling, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. On April 20, 2010, there was an explosion and a related fire on the Deepwater Horizon, an ultra-deepwater semi-submersible drilling unit that is not connected to us, while it was servicing a well in the Gulf of Mexico. This catastrophic event resulted in the death of 11 workers and the total loss of that drilling unit, as well as the release of large amounts of oil into the Gulf of Mexico, severely impacting the environment and the region’s key industries. This event is being investigated by several federal agencies, including the U.S. Department of Justice and the U.S. Congress and is also the subject of numerous lawsuits. On May 30, 2010, the U.S. Department of the Interior issued a six-month moratorium on all deepwater drilling in the outer continental shelf regions of the Gulf of Mexico and the Pacific Ocean. On July 12, 2010, the Department of the Interior issued a revised moratorium (for the same six-month period) keyed more to drilling configuration and technology rather than a specific drilling depth. In Norway, a moratorium on new drilling was issued on June 8, 2010. Norway’s energy minister has also indicated that Norway will not allow deepwater oil or gas drilling in new areas until the completion of the investigation into the explosion and oil release in the Gulf of Mexico. On October 12, 2010, the U.S. government lifted the drilling moratorium, subject to compliance with enhanced safety requirements, including those set forth in Notices to Lessees 2010-N05 and 2010-N06, both of which were implemented during the drilling ban. Additionally, all drilling in the Gulf of Mexico will be required to comply with the Interim Final Rule to Enhance Safety Measures for Energy Development on the Outer Continental Shelf (Drilling Safety Rule) and the Workplace Safety Rule on Safety and Environmental Management Systems, both of which were issued on September 30, 2010. Although we do not currently operate our drilling rigs in these regions, we may do so in the future. In any event, those developments could have a substantial impact on the offshore oil and gas industry worldwide. The ongoing investigations and proceedings may result in significant changes to existing laws and regulations and substantially stricter governmental regulation of our drilling units. For example, BP plc, the rig operator of the Deepwater Horizon, has reached an agreement with the U.S. government to establish a claims fund of $20 billion, which far exceeds the $75 million strict liability limit set forth under OPA. Amendments to existing laws and regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations curtailing or further regulating exploratory or development drilling and production of oil and gas, may restrict our drilling activities or require costly compliance measures that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Future earnings may be negatively affected by compliance with any such amended or new legislation or regulations. 18 Table of Contents Acts of terrorism and political and social unrest could affect the markets for drilling services, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Acts of terrorism and political and social unrest, brought about by world political events or otherwise, have caused instability in the world’s financial and insurance markets in the past and may occur in the future. Such acts could be directed against companies such as ours. Our drilling operations could also be targeted by acts of piracy. In addition, acts of terrorism and social unrest could lead to increased volatility in prices for crude oil and natural gas and could affect the markets for drilling services and result in lower dayrates. Insurance premiums could increase and coverage may be unavailable in the future. U.S. government regulations may effectively preclude us from actively engaging in business activities in certain countries. These regulations could be amended to cover countries where we currently operate or where we may wish to operate in the future. Increased insurance costs or increased cost of compliance with applicable regulations may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Hurricanes may impact our ability to operate our drilling units in the Gulf of Mexico or other U.S. coastal waters, which could reduce our revenues and profitability. Hurricanes Ivan, Katrina, Rita, Gustav and Ike caused damage to a number of drilling units in the Gulf of Mexico. Drilling units that were moved off their locations during the hurricanes damaged platforms, pipelines, wellheads and other drilling units. The Minerals Management Service of the U.S. Department of the Interior, now known as the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement (“BOEMRE”), issued guidelines for tie-downs on drilling units and permanent equipment and facilities attached to outer continental shelf production platforms, and moored drilling rig fitness that apply through the 2013 hurricane season. These guidelines effectively impose new requirements on the offshore oil and natural gas industry in an attempt to improve the stations that house the moored units and increase the likelihood of survival of offshore drilling units during a hurricane. The guidelines also provide for enhanced information and data requirements from oil and natural gas companies operating properties in the Gulf of Mexico. BOEMRE may issue similar guidelines for future hurricane seasons and may take other steps that could increase the cost of operations or reduce the area of operations for our ultra-deepwater drilling units, thus reducing their marketability. Implementation of new BOEMRE guidelines or regulations that may apply to ultra-deepwater drilling units may subject us to increased costs and limit the operational capabilities of our drilling units. The Company’s drilling units do not currently operate in the Gulf of Mexico or other U.S. Coastal waters but may do so in the future. Any failure to comply with the complex laws and regulations governing international trade could adversely affect our operations. The shipment of goods, services and technology across international borders subjects our offshore drilling segment to extensive trade laws and regulations. Import activities are governed by unique customs laws and regulations in each of the countries of operation. Moreover, many countries, including the United States, control the export and re-export of certain goods, services and technology and impose related export recordkeeping and reporting obligations. Governments also may impose economic sanctions against certain countries, persons and other entities that may restrict or prohibit transactions involving such countries, persons and entities. The laws and regulations concerning import activity, export recordkeeping and reporting, export control and economic sanctions are complex and constantly changing. These laws and regulations may be enacted, amended, enforced or interpreted in a manner materially impacting our operations. Shipments can be delayed and denied export or entry for a variety of reasons, some of which are outside our control and some of which may result from failure to comply with existing legal and regulatory regimes. Shipping delays or denials could cause unscheduled operational downtime. Any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory trading obligations also could result in criminal and civil penalties and sanctions, such as fines, imprisonment, debarment from government contracts, seizure of shipments and loss of import and export privileges. New technologies may cause our current drilling methods to become obsolete, resulting in an adverse effect on our business. The offshore contract drilling industry is subject to the introduction of new drilling techniques and services using new technologies, some of which may be subject to patent protection. As competitors and others use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage and competitive pressures may force us to implement new technologies at substantial cost. In addition, competitors may have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that allow them to benefit from technological advantages and implement new technologies before we can. We may not be able to implement technologies on a timely basis or at a cost that is acceptable to us. 19 Table of Contents Tanker Industry—Specific Risk Factors If the tanker industry, which historically has been cyclical and volatile, continues to be depressed or declines further in the future, our revenues, earnings and available cash flow may be adversely affected once our newbuilding tankers are delivered to us. The tanker industry is both cyclical and volatile in terms of charter rates and profitability. After reaching highs during the summer of 2008, charter rates for crude oil carriers fell dramatically thereafter. While the rates have improved somewhat, they remain significantly below those high levels. The recent global financial crisis may adversely affect our ability to charter our newbuilding tankers upon their delivery to us and any charters that we enter into in the future may not be sufficient to allow us to operate our vessels profitably. Fluctuations in charter rates and tanker values result from changes in the supply and demand for tanker capacity and changes in the supply and demand for oil and oil products. The factors affecting the supply and demand for tankers are outside of our control, and the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions are unpredictable. The factors that influence demand for tanker capacity include: • demand for oil and oil products; • supply of oil and oil products; • regional availability of refining capacity; • global and regional economic and political conditions; • actions taken by OPEC and major oil producers and refiners; • the distance oil and oil products are to be moved by sea; • changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns; • environmental and other legal and regulatory developments; • currency exchange rates; • weather and climate conditions; • competition from alternative sources of energy; and • international sanctions, embargoes, import and export restrictions, nationalizations and wars. The factors that influence the supply of oil tanker capacity include: • the number of newbuilding deliveries; • the scrapping rate of older vessels; • conversion of tankers to other uses; • the price of steel; • the number of vessels that are out of service; and • environmental concerns and regulations. Historically, the tanker markets have been volatile as a result of the many conditions and factors that can affect the price, supply and demand for tanker capacity. The recent global economic crisis may further reduce demand for transportation of oil over longer distances and supply of tankers to carry that oil, which may materially affect our revenues, profitability and cash flows. 20 Table of Contents Changes in the crude oil and petroleum products markets could result in decreased demand for our vessels and services. Demand for our vessels and services in transporting crude oil and petroleum products will depend upon world and regional crude oil and petroleum products markets. Any decrease in shipments of crude oil or petroleum products in those markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Historically, those markets have been volatile as a result of the many conditions and events that affect the price, production and transport of crude oil and petroleum products, including competition from alternative energy sources. In the long-term it is possible that crude oil and petroleum products demand may be reduced by an increased reliance on alternative energy sources, by a drive for increased efficiency in the use of crude oil and petroleum products as a result of environmental concerns, or by high oil prices. The current recession affecting the U.S. and world economies may result in protracted reduced consumption of crude oil and petroleum products and a decreased demand for our vessels and lower charter rates, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. An over-supply of tanker capacity may prolong currently low charter rates and vessel values or lead to further reductions in charter rates, vessel values, and profitability. The market supply of tankers is affected by a number of factors such as demand for energy resources, oil, and petroleum products, as well as strong overall economic growth in parts of the world economy including Asia. If the capacity of new ships delivered exceeds the capacity of tankers being scrapped and lost, tanker capacity will increase. In addition, the tanker newbuilding order book which extends to 2014 equaled approximately 25.9% of the existing world oil tanker fleet as of April 12, 2011, according to industry sources and the order book may increase further in proportion to the existing fleet. If the supply of tanker capacity increases and if the demand for tanker capacity does not increase correspondingly, charter rates could materially decline. A reduction in charter rates and the value of our vessels may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and available cash once we take delivery of our newbuilding tankers. The tanker sector is highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete successfully for charters with new entrants or established companies with greater resources. The tanker industry is highly competitive, capital intensive and highly fragmented. Competition arises primarily from other vessel owners, some of whom have substantially greater resources than we do. Competition for the transportation of petroleum products and oil can be intense and depends on price, location, size, age, condition and the acceptability of the vessel and its operators to the charterers. Due in part to the highly fragmented market, competitors with greater resources than we have could operate larger fleets than our tanker fleet will be once our newbuilding tankers are delivered to us and, thus, may be able to offer lower charter rates and higher quality vessels than we are able to offer. If this were to occur, we may be unable to attract new customers, which could adversely affect our business and operations. Changes in fuel, or bunkers, prices may adversely affect profits. With respect to our vessels we intend to employ on time charter, the charterer is generally responsible for the cost of fuel, or bunkers, however such cost may affect the charter rates for those vessels we intend on employing on voyage charters where the owner is responsible for the cost of fuel. Changes in the price of fuel may adversely affect our profitability. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. Further, fuel may become much more expensive in the future, which may reduce the profitability and competitiveness of our business versus other forms of transportation, such as truck or rail. Our operating results may be adversely affected by seasonal fluctuations in the tanker industry. The tanker sector has historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand and, as a result, in charter rates. This seasonality may result in quarter-to-quarter volatility in our operating results. The tanker sector is typically stronger in the fall and winter months in anticipation of increased consumption of oil and petroleum products in the northern hemisphere during the winter months. As a result, our revenues from our tankers may be weaker during the fiscal quarters ended June 30 and September 30, and, conversely, revenues may be stronger in fiscal quarters ended December 31 and March 31. This seasonality could materially affect our operating results and cash available for dividends in the future. Company Specific Risk Factors We may not be in compliance with financial covenants contained in our credit facilities. Our credit facilities, which are secured by mortgages on our vessels, require us to maintain specified financial ratios, mainly to ensure that the market value of the mortgaged vessels or drilling units under the applicable credit facility, determined in accordance 21 Table of Contents with the terms of that facility, does not fall below a certain percentage of the outstanding amount of the loan, which we refer to as a value maintenance clause, and to satisfy certain other financial covenants. In general, these financial covenants require us to maintain (i) minimum liquidity; (ii) a minimum market adjusted equity ratio; (iii) a minimum interest coverage ratio; (iv) a minimum market adjusted net worth and (v) a minimum debt service coverage ratio. As of December 31, 2008, we were in breach of certain financial covenants, mainly the loan-to-value ratios (also known as value maintenance clauses), contained in our loan agreements relating to $1.8 billion of our debt. A violation of these covenants, if not cured by providing additional collateral within specified grace periods constitutes an event of default under our credit facilities and provides our lenders with the right to increase our interest payments, pay down our indebtedness to a level where we are in compliance with our loan covenants, sell vessels in our fleet, reclassify our indebtedness as current liabilities and accelerate our indebtedness and foreclose their liens on our vessels, which would impair our ability to continue to conduct our business. Even though none of the lenders declared an event of default under the loan agreements, these breaches constituted potential events of default and could have resulted in the lenders requiring immediate repayment of the loans. As of September 30, 2010, we had either regained compliance with these financial covenants or obtained waivers from our lenders resolving all of the above-mentioned breaches and, accordingly, we were in compliance with the loan-to-value ratios and other financial covenants applicable under our loan agreements as of that date. As of December 31, 2010, we were either in compliance with our financial covenants or had the ability to remedy shortfalls within specified grace periods. Some of our waiver agreements expire in 2011 and 2012, at which time the original covenants come back into effect. Prevailing charter rates, which are a principal factor impacting vessel values, have been extremely volatile in recent years and are largely dependent on global economic activity, particularly in China. Charter rates and vessel values, particularly in the drybulk sector, may remain at low levels for an extended period of time, in which case it may be difficult for us to comply with the financial and other covenants in our loan agreements absent extensions of the existing waivers. There can be no assurance that our lenders will extend these waivers, if we are not in compliance with our secured loan agreements, as they expire. If our indebtedness is accelerated, it would be very difficult in the current financing environment for us to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing and we could lose our vessels if our lenders foreclose their liens. In addition, if the fair value of our vessels, deteriorates significantly from their currently depressed levels, we may have to record a further impairment adjustment to our financial statements, which would adversely affect our financial results and further hinder our ability to raise capital. We expect that the lenders will not demand payment of the loans before their maturity, provided that we pay loan installments and accumulated or accrued interest as they fall due under the existing credit facilities. We plan to settle the loan interest and scheduled loan repayments with cash generated from operations. Our credit facilities and waivers impose operating and financial restrictions on us, and if we receive additional waivers and/or amendments to our loan agreements, our lenders may impose additional operating and financial restrictions on us and/or modify the terms of our existing loan agreements. In addition to certain financial covenants relating to our financial position, operating performance and liquidity, the restrictions contained in our loan agreements limit our ability to, among other things: • pay dividends to investors or make capital expenditures if we do not repay amounts drawn under the credit facilities, if there is a default under the credit facilities or if the payment of the dividend or capital expenditure would result in a default or breach of a loan covenant; • incur additional indebtedness, including through the issuance of guarantees; • change the flag, class or management of our vessels; • create liens on our assets; • sell or otherwise change the ownership of our vessels; • merge or consolidate with, or transfer all or substantially all our assets to, another person; and • drop below certain minimum cash deposits, as defined in our credit facilities. In addition, certain subsidiaries may be restricted from paying dividends to us. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—B. Liquidity and Capital Resources—Breach of Loan Covenants.” In connection with future waivers or amendments, lenders may impose additional restrictions on us. 22 Table of Contents Therefore, we will need to seek permission from our lenders in order to engage in certain corporate and commercial actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business, and a denial of permission may make it difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy or effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted. Our lenders’ interests may be different from our interests, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain our lenders’ permission when needed. In addition to the above restrictions, our lenders may require the payment of additional fees, require prepayment of a portion of our indebtedness to them, accelerate the amortization schedule for our indebtedness and increase the interest rates they charge us on our outstanding indebtedness. These potential restrictions and requirements may limit our ability to pay dividends, if any, in the future to you, finance our future operations, make acquisitions or pursue business opportunities. Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our credit facilities may be affected by economic, financial and industry conditions and other factors beyond our control. Any default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, including a default under our credit facilities, that is not waived by the required lenders, and the remedies sought by the holders of such indebtedness, could prevent us from paying dividends in the future. If we are unable to repay indebtedness the lenders under our credit facilities could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. In any such case, we may be unable to repay the amounts due under our credit facilities. This could have serious consequences to our financial condition and results of operations and could cause us to become bankrupt or insolvent. Our ability to comply with these covenants in future periods will also depend substantially on the value of our assets, our charter rates and dayrates, our ability to obtain charters and drilling contracts, our success at keeping our costs low and our ability to successfully implement our overall business strategy. Any future credit agreement or amendment or debt instrument may contain similar or more restrictive covenants. The failure of our counterparties to meet their obligations under our time charter agreements could cause us to suffer losses or otherwise adversely affect our business. Thirty of our drybulk vessels are currently employed under time charters and one of our drybulk vessels is currently employed on bareboat charter. In addition, we employ five vessels in the spot market. The ability and willingness of each of our counterparties to perform its obligations under a time charter agreement with us will depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control and may include, among other things, general economic conditions, the condition of the drybulk shipping industry and the overall financial condition of the counterparties. In addition, in challenging market conditions, there have been reports of charterers, including some of our charterers, renegotiating their charters or defaulting on their obligations under charters and our customers may fail to pay charter hire or attempt to renegotiate charter rates. Three of our drybulk vessels, the MV Capri, MV Samatan and MV Capitola are currently on short term (spot) charters to Korea Line Corp. (“KLC”), a South Korean shipping company that announced on January 25, 2011 it had filed a petition for the rehabilitation proceeding for court receivership in the Seoul Central District Court, and the court had issued a preservation order. We were entitled to a rate of $61,000, $39,500 and $39,500 per day under our charters with KLC for the MV Capri, MV Samatan and MV Capitola, respectively, which were scheduled to expire between May 2013 and June 2018. On February 15, 2011 KLC’s application was approved by the Seoul Court, and Joint Receivers of KLC were appointed. Upon and with effect from March 14, 2011 the shipowning companies’ original charter agreements with KLC were terminated by the Joint Receivers, and the shipowning companies entered into new short term charter agreements with the Joint Receivers at reduced rates of hire and others terms, with the approval of the Seoul Court. On April 1, 2011 the shipowning companies filed claims in the corporate rehabilitation of KLC for (i) outstanding hire due under the original charter agreements, and (ii) damages and loss caused by the early termination of the original charter agreements. There can be no assurance that KLC will make the required payments due to us under the new charter agreements. As is the case with the MV Capri, MV Samatan and MV Capitola, some of the charters on which we deploy 18 of the other vessels in our fleet provide for charter rates that are significantly above current market rates. Should any other counterparty fail to honor its obligations under our charter agreements, it may be difficult to secure substitute employment for such vessel, and any new charter arrangements we secure in the spot market or on time charters could be at lower rates given currently decreased charter rate levels, particularly in the drybulk carrier market. If our charterers fail to meet their obligations to us or attempt to renegotiate our charter agreements, we could sustain significant losses which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as well as our ability to pay dividends, if any, in the future, and comply with covenants in our credit facilities. We are subject to certain risks with respect to our counterparties on drilling contracts, newbuilding contracts and hedging agreements, and failure of such counterparties to meet their obligations could cause us to suffer losses or otherwise adversely affect our business. We enter into drilling services contracts with our customers, newbuilding contracts with shipyards, interest rate swap agreements and forward exchange contracts, and have employed and may employ our drilling units on fixed-term and well contracts. Our drilling contracts, newbuilding contracts, and hedging agreements subject us to counterparty risks. The ability of each of our counterparties to perform its obligations under a contract with us will depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control and may include, among other things, general economic conditions, the condition of the offshore contract drilling industry, the overall 23 Table of Contents financial condition of the counterparty, the dayrates received for specific types of drilling rigs and drillships and various expenses. In addition, in depressed market conditions, our customers may no longer need a drilling unit that is currently under contract or may be able to obtain a comparable drilling unit at a lower dayrate. As a result, customers may seek to renegotiate the terms of their existing drilling contracts or avoid their obligations under those contracts. Should a counterparty fail to honor its obligations under an agreement with us, we could sustain significant losses which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our customers may seek to cancel or renegotiate some of our drilling contracts during periods of depressed market conditions or if we experience downtime, operational difficulties, or safety-related issues. Currently, our contracts with customers are dayrate contracts, where we charge a fixed charge per day regardless of the number of days needed to drill the well. During depressed market conditions, a customer may no longer need a unit that is currently under contract or may be able to obtain a comparable unit at a lower daily rate. As a result, customers may seek to renegotiate the terms of their existing drilling contracts or avoid their obligations under those contracts. None of our customers has attempted to renegotiate their contracts with us. In addition, our customers may have the right to terminate, or may seek to renegotiate, existing contracts if we experience downtime or operational problems above the contractual limit or in the case of specified safety-related issues, if the unit is a total loss, if the unit is not delivered to the customer or, in certain circumstances, does not pass acceptance testing within the period specified in the contract or in other specified circumstances, which include events beyond the control of either party. Our contracts with our customers may include terms allowing them to terminate contracts with little or no prior notice and without penalty or early termination payments. In addition, we could be required to pay penalties, which could be material, if some of our contracts with our customers are terminated due to downtime, operational problems or failure to deliver. Some of our other contracts with customers may be cancelable at the option of the customer upon payment of a penalty, which may not fully compensate us for the loss of the contract. In addition, a customer that is the subject of a bankruptcy filing may elect to reject its drilling contract. Early termination of a contract may result in a unit being idle for an extended period of time. The likelihood that a customer may seek to terminate a contract is increased during periods of market weakness. If our customers cancel some of our significant contracts and we are unable to secure new contracts on substantially similar terms, or at all, we may not ultimately realize our current backlog of contracted drilling revenue and our revenues and profitability could be materially reduced. We have a substantial amount of debt, and we may lose the ability to obtain future financing and suffer competitive disadvantages. We had outstanding indebtedness of $2.9 billion as of December 31, 2010. In addition, in January 2011, we drew down the full amount of our $325.0 million short-term facility in connection with the delivery of the Ocean Rig Corcovado and we repaid a short-term overdraft credit facility of $300.0 million. In March 2011, we repaid the remaining $115.0 million outstanding under our $230.0 million credit facility in connection with the delivery of the Ocean Rig Olympia. We expect to incur substantial additional indebtedness in order to fund the aggregate remaining total construction costs and construction related expenses for our two newbuilding drillships, the Ocean Rig Poseidon and the Ocean Rig Mykonos, in the aggregate amount of approximately $766.0 million as of December 31, 2010 and any further growth of our fleet. We recently received the consent of our lenders to restructure the two $562.5 million credit facilities we have entered into with Deutsche Bank, which we refer to as the Deutsche Bank credit facilities, which is subject to completion of definitive documentation. In order to draw down the facility for the construction of the Ocean Rig Mykonos, we are required to secure suitable employment for the drillship, as required under the loan agreement, no later than August 2011. In the event we are unable to secure suitable employment for the Ocean Rig Mykonos by that date, our lenders are not required to fund certain drawdowns by us under the loan agreement unless we fully cash collateralize such borrowings; and we would be required to repay all outstanding amounts under the agreement. Further, we recently received a commitment letter from Nordea Bank Finland plc for a new $800 million secured term loan facility, which is subject to completion of definitive documentation, a portion of which we intend to draw down to prepay our $325 million short term loan agreement. In addition, in February 2011, we entered into a new $70 million secured term loan facility with an international lender to partially finance the construction costs of the newbuilding tankers Saga and Vilamoura. As of March 30, 2011, we drew down the full amount of this facility. In addition, we recently received a commitment letter, which is subject to completion of definitive documentation, from an international lender for a new $32.3 million secured term loan facility to partially finance the construction costs of the newbuilding tanker Daytona, which is scheduled to be delivered in April 2011. This substantial level of debt and other obligations could have significant adverse consequences on our business and future prospects, including the following: • we may not be able to obtain financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other purposes; 24 Table of Contents • we may not be able to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to service the debt; • we could become more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including increases in interest rates, particularly given our substantial indebtedness, some of which bears interest at variable rates; • we may not be able to meet financial ratios included in our loan agreements due to market conditions or other events beyond our control, which could result in a default under these agreements and trigger cross-default provisions in our other loan agreements and debt instruments; • less leveraged competitors could have a competitive advantage because they have lower debt service requirements; and • we may be less able to take advantage of significant business opportunities and to react to changes in market or industry conditions than our competitors. Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating income is not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital. We may not be able to effect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms, or at all. In addition, a lack of liquidity in the debt and equity markets could hinder our ability to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing on favorable terms in the future. We recently expanded into and have limited experience with respect to the oil tanker sector, which sector is currently at depressed levels and could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. In November 2010, we expanded into the oil tanker sector with our entry into construction contracts for six Aframax and six Suezmax high specification tankers. We took delivery of two of our newbuilding Aframax tankers, Saga, in January 2011 one of our newbuilding Suezmax tankers, Vilamoura, in March 2011, and the remaining tankers under construction are scheduled to be delivered to us between April 2011 and December 2013. The charter markets for crude oil carriers and product tankers have deteriorated significantly since summer 2008 and are currently at depressed levels. These markets may be further depressed through 2011 given the significant number of newbuilding vessels scheduled to be delivered. Attractive investment opportunities in these sectors may reflect these depressed conditions, however, the return on any such investment is highly uncertain in this extremely challenging operating environment. We have not previously operated vessels in these sectors, which are intensely competitive, have unique operational risks and are highly dependent on the availability of and demand for crude oil and petroleum products as well as being significantly impacted by the availability of modern tanker capacity and the scrapping, conversion or loss of older vessels. An inability to successfully execute an expansion into any of these sectors could be costly, distract us from our drybulk and offshore drilling business and divert management resources, each of which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. Our ability to establish oil tanker industry relationships and a reputation for customer service and safety, as well as to acquire and renew charters, will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to man our vessels with experienced oil tanker crews and the ability to manage such risks. Given our limited experience with respect to the oil tanker industry, there is no assurance that we will be able to address the variety of vessel management risks in the oil tanker sector or to develop and maintain commercial relationships with leading charter companies, which could adversely affect our expansion into the oil tanker sector. We will need to procure significant additional financing, which may be difficult to obtain on acceptable terms, in order to complete the construction of any of the four additional newbuilding drillships for which we exercise our option as well as our ten remaining newbuilding oil tankers. We, through our majority-owned subsidiary, Ocean Rig UDW Inc. (“Ocean Rig UDW”), have entered into contracts with Samsung Heavy Industries Co. Ltd. (“Samsung”) for the construction of two ultra-deepwater newbuilding drillships, the Ocean Rig Poseidon and the Ocean Rig Mykonos. As of December 31, 2010, and after giving effect to the payments we made in connection with the delivery of the drillship Ocean Rig Corcovado, our newbuilding drillship that was delivered to us on January 3, 2011, and the Ocean Rig Olympia, our newbuilding drillship that was delivered to us on March 30, 2011, we had remaining yard installments of $766.0 million, all of which is payable in 2011 for the construction of the Ocean Rig Poseidon and the Ocean Rig Mykonos, which are scheduled to be delivered to us in July 2011 and September 2011, respectively. 25 Table of Contents In December 2010, we completed the sale of 28,571,428 common shares of Ocean Rig UDW in an offering made to both non-United States persons in Norway in reliance on Regulation S under the Securities Act and to qualified institutional buyers in the United States in reliance on Rule 144A under the Securities Act (the “Private Placement”). We received net proceeds of $488.3 million from the Private Placement, $99.0 million of which was used to purchase an option contract with Samsung for the construction of up to four additional ultra-deepwater drillships, which would be “sister-ships” to the Ocean Rig Corcovado, the Ocean Rig Olympia and the two drillships currently under construction and would have the same specifications as the Ocean Rig Poseidon, one of our two drillships under construction. We intend to apply the remaining proceeds of the Private Placement of approximately $389.3 million to partially fund remaining installment payments for our newbuilding drillships and for general corporate purposes. We intend to fund the balance of the remaining installments for our newbuilding drillships with borrowings under the two Deutsche Bank credit facilities following the restructuring of these facilities for which we have received consent from our lenders, subject to completion of definitive documentation which we expect to occur in April 2011. In addition, we intend to prepay our $325.0 million short term loan agreement with borrowings under a new $800 million secured term loan facility for which we have received a commitment letter. In order to draw down the facility for the construction of the Ocean Rig Mykonos, we are required to secure suitable employment for the drillship, as required under the loan agreement, no later than August 2011. In the event we are unable to secure suitable employment for the Ocean Rig Mykonos by that date; and we would be required to repay all outstanding amounts under the agreement. Due to competition for drilling contracts, we may find it difficult to secure employment meeting these requirements. In addition, as described above, we have entered into an option contract with Samsung to construct up to four additional ultra-deepwater drillships, with an estimated construction cost of $600.0 million each, which would be “sister-ships” to our current drillships and would have the same specifications as the Ocean Rig Poseidon. Each of the four options to build a drillship may be exercised by November 2011, with vessel deliveries ranging from 2013 to 2014 depending on when the options are exercised. We paid a non-refundable deposit of approximately $99.0 million in the aggregate to secure this contract. To the extent we exercise any of the options we have with Samsung for the construction of four additional newbuilding drillships, with an estimated cost of $2.4 billion in the aggregate, we will incur additional payment obligations for which we have not arranged financing. If, on the other hand, we do not exercise any of these options, we will sacrifice the corresponding deposits, for which we paid approximately $99.0 million in the aggregate. Pursuant to the Drillship Master Agreement dated November 22, 2010, on February 25, 2011 and on March 18, 2011 the Company made additional payments to Samsung totaling $20 million in exchange for certain amendments to the originally agreed terms and conditions. Furthermore, on November 22, 2010 and November 29, 2010, we entered into agreements with Samsung for the construction of six Aframax and six Suezmax oil tankers. We took delivery of one of our newbuilding Aframax tankers, Saga, on January 18, 2011 and one of our Suezmax tankers, Vilamoura, on March 23, 2011. The remaining tankers under construction are scheduled to be delivered to us between April 2011 and December 2013. As of March 30, 2011, we drew down the full amount of our $70 million secured term loan facility to partially finance the delivery of the newbuilding tankers Saga and Vilamoura and we have received a commitment letter for a new $32.3 million secured term loan facility to partially finance the construction cost of our newbuilding tanker Daytona. We have not secured financing for the remaining construction costs of this vessel or for our other nine remaining newbuilding tankers. We have remaining construction and construction-related costs with respect to our tankers under construction of $548.3 million in the aggregate, which amounts to approximately 71.11% of the total construction cost, $159.0 million of which is payable during 2011. In the current challenging financing environment, it may be difficult to obtain secured debt to finance these purchases or raise debt or equity in the capital markets. The restructuring of the two Deutsche Bank credit facilities, the new $800 million secured term loan facility and the new $32.3 million term loan facility are subject to completion of definitive documentation. Furthermore, the draw down under Deutsche Bank credit facility to finance the construction of the Ocean Rig Mykonos is subject to our obtaining suitable employment for the drillship by August 2011. If we are unable to draw down under our loan agreements, we may not be able to obtain additional financing at all or on terms acceptable to us and unless we are successful in obtaining debt financing, or raising additional equity capital, we may not be able to complete these transactions. If for any reason we fail to take delivery of our two newbuilding drillships or our 10 newbuilding oil tankers, we would be prevented from realizing potential revenues from these projects and we could also lose our deposit money, which as of December 31, 2010, amounted to $697.6 million and $122.8 million, respectively, and incur additional costs and liability to the shipyards, which may pursue claims against us under our newbuilding construction contracts and retain and sell to third parties those newbuildings to the extent completed. Construction of vessels is subject to risks, including delays and cost overruns, which could have an adverse impact on our available cash resources and results of operations. We have entered into contracts with an established Chinese shipyard for the construction of two Panamax drybulk carriers, which we expect to take delivery of in November 2011 and January 2012, respectively. We, through our majority-owned subsidiary, Ocean Rig UDW, have also entered into contracts with Samsung for the construction of two ultra-deepwater drillships, which we 26 Table of Contents expect to take delivery of in July 2011 and September 2011, respectively. In addition, we have also entered into contracts with Samsung for the construction of five Aframax and five Suezmax high specification tankers, which we expect to take delivery of between April 2011 and December 2013. Currently, each of our newbuilding vessels is expected to be delivered to us on time. From time to time in the future, we may undertake new construction projects and conversion projects. In addition, we make significant upgrade, refurbishment, conversion and repair expenditures for our fleet from time to time, particularly as our vessels become older. Some of these expenditures are unplanned. These projects together with our existing construction projects and other efforts of this type are subject to risks of cost overruns or delays inherent in any large construction project as a result of numerous factors, including the following: • shipyard unavailability; • shortages of equipment, materials or skilled labor; • unscheduled delays in the delivery of ordered materials and equipment; • local customs strikes or related work slowdowns that could delay importation of equipment or materials; • engineering problems, including those relating to the commissioning of newly designed equipment; • latent damages or deterioration to the hull, equipment and machinery in excess of engineering estimates and assumptions; • work stoppages; • client acceptance delays; • weather interference or storm damage; • disputes with shipyards and suppliers; • shipyard failures and difficulties; • failure or delay of third-party equipment vendors or service providers; • unanticipated cost increases; and • difficulty in obtaining necessary permits or approvals or in meeting permit or approval conditions. These factors may contribute to cost variations and delays in the delivery of our newbuilding vessels. Delays in the delivery of these newbuilding vessels or the inability to complete construction in accordance with their design specifications may, in some circumstances, result in a delay in contract commencement, resulting in a loss of revenue to us, and may also cause customers to renegotiate, terminate or shorten the term of a drilling contract or charter agreement, pursuant to applicable late delivery clauses. In the event of termination of one of these contracts, we may not be able to secure a replacement contract on as favorable terms. Additionally, capital expenditures for vessel upgrades, refurbishment and construction projects could materially exceed our planned capital expenditures. Moreover, our vessels that may undergo upgrade, refurbishment and repair may not earn a dayrate or charter hire, respectively, during the periods they are out of service. In addition, in the event of a shipyard failure or other difficulty, we may be unable to enforce certain provisions under our newbuilding contracts such as our refund guarantee, to recover amounts paid as installments under such contracts. The occurrence of any of these events may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. In the event our counterparties do not perform under their agreements with us for the construction of our newbuilding vessels and we are unable to enforce certain refund guarantees, we may lose all or part of our investment, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We took delivery of our newbuilding drillships, the Ocean Rig Corcovado and the Ocean Rig Olympia, on January 3, 2011 and March 30, 2011, respectively, from Samsung, which is located in South Korea. Currently, we have newbuilding contracts with Samsung for the construction of two sixth generation, advanced capability ultra-deepwater drillships, which are scheduled to be delivered in July 2011 and September 2011, respectively. As of December 31, 2010, we have made total yard payments in the amount of approximately $697.6 million for these two drillships and we have remaining yard installments in the amount of $766 million billion before we take possession of these drillships. 27 Table of Contents In addition, we have entered into an option contract with Samsung to construct up to four additional ultra-deepwater drillships, with an estimated construction cost of $600.0 million each, which would be “sister-ships” to our current drillships and would have the same specifications as the Ocean Rig Poseidon, one of our two drillships under construction. Each of the four options to build a drillship may be exercised by November 2011, with vessel deliveries ranging from 2013 to 2014 depending on when the options are exercised. We paid a non-refundable deposit of $99.0 million in the aggregate to secure this contract. Pursuant to the Drillship Master Agreement dated November 22, 2010, on February 25, 2011 and on March 18, 2011 the Company made additional payments to Samsung totaling $20 million in exchange for certain amendments to the originally agreed terms and conditions. We took delivery of our newbuilding tankers, Saga and Vilamoura on January 18, 2011 and March 23, 2011, respectively, from Samsung. We have newbuilding contracts with Samsung for the construction of an additional 10 high-specification tankers, consisting of five Aframax and five Suezmax tankers, which are scheduled to be delivered to us between April 2011 and December 2013. As of December 31, 2010, we have made total yard payments in the amount of approximately $94.3 million for these ten tankers and we have remaining yard installments in the amount of $548.3 million before we take possession of these tankers. Furthermore, we currently have newbuilding contracts with an established Chinese shipyard for the construction of two Panamax drybulk vessels scheduled to be delivered to us in November 2011 and January 2012. As of December 31, 2010, we have made total yard payments in the amount of approximately $13.2 million for these two vessels and we have remaining yard installments in the amount of $52.9 million before we take possession of these vessels. In the event our counterparties under the construction contracts discussed above do not perform under their agreements with us and we are unable to enforce certain refund guarantees with third party banks due to an outbreak of war, bankruptcy or otherwise, we may lose all or part of our investment, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our loan agreement for the Ocean Rig Mykonos requires us to secure employment for that drillship by August 2011 at a minimum specified dayrate and for a minimum specified term, which we have not yet satisfied. Our ability to borrow amounts under our current credit facilities, including our cash requirements relating to the purchase of our two newbuilding ultra-deepwater drillships, is subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions precedent and compliance with terms and conditions included therein. In particular, our lenders under our $562.5 million loan agreement for financing of the Ocean Rig Mykonos are not required to fund drawdowns by us under such loan agreement and we will be required to repay all outstanding amounts in the event we do not obtain, by August 2011 an employment contract for the drillship at minimum dayrates of $545,000 for a two year contract, $550,000 for a three year contract and $510,000 for a five year contract and with charterers that are satisfactory to such lenders. Due to competition for drilling contracts, we may find it difficult to secure employment meeting these requirements. We have not secured employment for the Ocean Rig Mykonos. Prior to each drawdown of the two Deutsche Bank credit facilities, we will be required, among other things, to satisfy minimum security value requirements, and, prior to our entry into suitable employment contracts, as required by the loan agreement, we are required to meet such minimum security value requirement with additional cash collateral. To the extent that we are not able to satisfy these requirements, which may also occur if the value of our drilling units declines, we will not be able to draw down any amount under our credit facilities without obtaining a waiver or consent from the lender, which may be withheld by the lender. If for any reason we fail to take this delivery of the Ocean Rig Mykonos, we would be prevented from realizing potential revenues from these newbuilding projects, we could also lose our deposit money, which as of December 31, 2010 amounted to $ 322.8 million in the aggregate for the Ocean Rig Mykonos, and we could incur additional costs and liability to Samsung, which may pursue claims against us under our newbuilding construction contracts and retain and sell to third parties such newbuildings to the extent completed. We may be unable to secure ongoing drilling contracts, including for our one uncontracted drillship under construction, due to strong competition, and the contracts that we enter into may not provide sufficient cash flow to meet our cash flow obligations with respect to our indebtedness. We have not yet secured drilling contracts for one of our newbuilding drillships, the Ocean Rig Mykonos, scheduled to be delivered to us during the third quarter of 2011. The existing drilling contracts for our drilling units currently employed are scheduled to expire from the fourth quarter of 2011 through the first quarter of 2013. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain contracts for our one uncontracted newbuilding drillship or, upon the expiration or termination of the current contracts, for our drilling units currently employed or that there will not be a gap in employment between current contracts and subsequent contracts. In 28 Table of Contents particular, if the price of crude oil is low, or it is expected that the price of crude oil will decrease in the future, at a time when we are seeking to arrange employment contracts for our drilling units, we may not be able to obtain employment contracts at attractive rates or at all. If the rates which we receive for the reemployment of our current drilling units are reduced, we will recognize less revenue from their operations. In addition, delays under existing contracts could cause us to lose future contracts if a drilling unit is not available to start work at the agreed date. Our ability to meet our cash flow obligations will depend on our ability to consistently secure drilling contracts for our drilling units at sufficiently high dayrates. We cannot predict the future level of demand for our services or future conditions in the oil and gas industry. If the oil and gas companies do not continue to increase exploration, development and production expenditures, we may have difficulty securing drilling contracts, including for the two newbuilding drillships we have agreed to acquire, or we may be forced to enter into contracts at unattractive dayrates. Either of these events could impair our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to make principal and interest payments under our indebtedness and meet our capital expenditure and other obligations. We will depend upon the spot market in our tanker segment and any decrease in spot charter rates may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We currently employ our two operating tankers in spot market pools managed by Heidmar Inc., a company related to our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. We intend to employ our remaining 10 newbuilding tankers, three of which are scheduled to be delivered to us in 2011, in spot market pools and as a result, our results of operations in our tanker segment will be significantly affected by conditions in the oil tanker spot market. The spot market is highly volatile and fluctuates based on tanker and oil supply and demand. The successful operation of our tankers in spot market pools depends on, among other things, our pool manager’s ability to obtain profitable charters and minimizing, to the extent possible, time spent waiting for charters and traveling unladen to pick up cargo. In the past, there have been periods when spot rates have declined below operating costs of vessels. Future spot rates may decline significantly and may not be sufficient for us to operate our tankers profitably, which would have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. The removal of any tanker vessels from the Sigma or Blue Fin tanker pools or any other pooling arrangement may adversely affect our operating results. We currently employ our two operating tankers in spot market pools managed by Heidmar Inc., a related party, and we intend to employ our remaining 10 newbuilding tankers, three of which are scheduled to be delivered to us in 2011, in spot market pools. If we remove any tankers vessels from our pooling arrangements to operate under longer-term time charters, the benefits to us of the pooling arrangements could diminish. If for any reason our tanker vessels or any third party vessels cease to participate in the Sigma tanker pool or the Blue Fin tanker pool or another pooling arrangement, or if the pooling arrangements are significantly restricted, we may not achieve the benefits intended by pool participation and our results of operations could be harmed. Purchasing and operating secondhand vessels may result in increased operating costs and reduced fleet utilization. While we have the right to inspect previously owned vessels prior to our purchase of them and we intend to inspect all secondhand vessels that we acquire in the future, such an inspection does not provide us with the same knowledge about their condition that we would have if these vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us. A secondhand vessel may have conditions or defects that we were not aware of when we bought the vessel and which may require us to incur costly repairs to the vessel. These repairs may require us to put a vessel into dry dock which would reduce our fleet utilization. Furthermore, we usually do not receive the benefit of warranties on secondhand vessels. Our earnings may be adversely affected if we are not able to take advantage of favorable charter rates for our drybulk vessels. We charter our drybulk carriers to customers primarily pursuant to long-term or short-term time charters, which generally last from several days to several weeks, and long-term time charters, which can last up to several years. As of April 12, 2011, 34 of our drybulk vessels were employed under time charters with an average duration of two years. We may in the future extend the charter periods for additional vessels in our fleet. Our vessels that are committed to longer-term charters may not be available for employment on short-term charters during periods of increasing short-term charter hire rates when these charters may be more profitable than long-term charters. Our board of directors has determined to suspend the payment of cash dividends as a result of market conditions in the international shipping industry, and until such market conditions improve, it is unlikely that we will reinstate the payment of dividends. In light of a lower freight rate environment and a highly challenged financing environment, our board of directors, beginning with the fourth quarter of 2008, has suspended our common share dividend. Our dividend policy will be assessed by the board of 29 Table of Contents directors from time to time. The suspension allows us to preserve capital and use the preserved capital to capitalize on market opportunities as they may arise. Until market conditions improve, it is unlikely that we will reinstate the payment of dividends. In addition, other external factors, such as our lenders imposing restrictions on our ability to pay dividends under the terms of our loan agreements, may limit our ability to pay dividends. Further, we may not be permitted to pay dividends if we are in breach of the covenants contained in our loan agreements. The waivers of our non-compliance with the covenants in our loan agreements that we received from our lenders prohibit us from paying dividends. Investment in derivative instruments such as freight forward agreements could result in losses. From time to time, we may take positions in derivative instruments including freight forward agreements (“FFAs”). FFAs and other derivative instruments may be used to hedge a vessel owner’s exposure to the charter market by providing for the sale of a contracted charter rate along a specified route and period of time. Upon settlement, if the contracted charter rate is less than the average of the rates, as reported by an identified index, for the specified route and period, the seller of the FFA is required to pay the buyer an amount equal to the difference between the contracted rate and the settlement rate, multiplied by the number of days in the specified period. Conversely, if the contracted rate is greater than the settlement rate, the buyer is required to pay the seller the settlement sum. If we take positions in FFAs or other derivative instruments and do not correctly anticipate charter rate movements over the specified route and time period, we could suffer losses in the settling or termination of the FFA. This could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. The derivative contracts we have entered into to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates could result in higher than market interest rates and charges against our income. We have entered into 34 interest rate swaps for purposes of managing our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates applicable to indebtedness under our credit facilities, which were advanced at a floating rate based on LIBOR. Our hedging strategies, however, may not be effective and we may incur substantial losses if interest rates move materially differently from our expectations. Most of our existing interest rate swaps do not, and future derivative contracts may not, qualify for treatment as hedges for accounting purposes. We recognize fluctuations in the fair value of these contracts in our statement of operations. In addition, our financial condition could be materially adversely affected to the extent we do not hedge our exposure to interest rate fluctuations under our financing arrangements, under which loans have been advanced at a floating rate based on LIBOR and for which we have not entered into an interest rate swap or other hedging arrangement. Any hedging activities we engage in may not effectively manage our interest rate exposure or have the desired impact on our financial conditions or results of operations. At December 31, 2010, the fair value of our interest rate swaps was a liability of $231 million. We depend entirely on TMS Bulkers and TMS Tankers to manage and charter our drybulk fleet and our tankers under construction, respectively. With respect to our operations in the drybulk and tanker shipping sectors, we currently have five employees, our Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Operating Officer, our Chief Financial Officer, our Senior Vice President Head of Accounting and Reporting and our Internal Auditor. As of January 1, 2011, we subcontract the commercial and technical management of our drybulk fleet and tankers under construction, including crewing, maintenance and repair to TMS Bulkers and TMS Tankers Ltd. (“TMS Tankers”), respectively. TMS Bulkers and TMS Tankers are beneficially majority-owned by our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. George Economou and members of his immediate family. The remaining capital stock of TMS Bulkers and TMS Tankers is beneficially owned by the sister of Mr. Economou, Ms. Chryssoula Kandylidis, who serves on our board of directors. The loss of the services or TMS Bulkers or TMS Tankers or their failure to perform their obligations to us could materially and adversely affect the results of our operations. Although we may have rights against TMS Bulkers and TMS Tankers if they default on their obligations to us, you will have no recourse against either of them. Further, we are required to seek approval from our lenders to change our manager. Under our management agreements with TMS Bulkers and TMS Tankers, TMS Bulkers and TMS Tankers shall not be liable to us for any losses or damages arising in the course of its performance under the agreement unless such loss or damage is proved to have resulted from the negligence, gross negligence or willful default by TMS Bulkers and TMS Tankers, its employees or agents and in such case TMS Bulkers’s and TMS Tankers’s liability per incident or series of incidents is limited to a total of ten times the annual management fee payable under the relevant agreement. The management agreements further provide that TMS Bulkers and TMS Tankers shall not be liable for any of the actions of the crew, even if such actions are negligent, grossly negligent or willful, except to the extent that they are shown to have resulted from a failure by TMS Bulkers and TMS Tankers to perform their obligations with respect to management of the crew. Except to the extent of the liability cap described above, we have agreed to indemnify TMS Bulkers and TMS Tankers and their employees and agents against any losses incurred in the course of the performance of the agreement. 30 Table of Contents TMS Bulkers and TMS Tankers are privately held company and there is little or no publicly available information about them. The ability of TMS Bulkers and TMS Tankers to continue providing services for our benefit will depend in part on their own financial strength. Circumstances beyond our control could impair TMS Bulkers’s and TMS Tankers’s financial strength, and because it is privately held it is unlikely that information about its financial strength would become public unless TMS Bulkers or TMS Tankers began to default on their obligations. As a result, an investor in our shares might have little advance warning of problems affecting TMS Bulkers and TMS Tankers, even though these problems could have a material adverse effect on us. We are dependent upon key management personnel, particularly our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mr. George Economou. Our continued operations depend to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. George Economou. The loss of Mr. Economou’s services to our Company could adversely affect our discussions with our lenders and management of our fleet during this difficult economic period and, therefore, could adversely affect our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We do not currently, nor do we intend to, maintain “key man” life insurance on any of our personnel, including Mr. Economou. Our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer has affiliations with TMS Bulkers and TMS Tankers which could create conflicts of interest. Our major shareholder is controlled by Mr. George Economou, who controls four entities that, in the aggregate, are deemed to beneficially own, directly or indirectly, approximately 13.9% of our outstanding common shares as of April 12, 2011 and a majority of the capital stock of TMS Bulkers and TMS Tankers. Mr. Economou is also our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and a director of our Company. These responsibilities and relationships could create conflicts of interest between us, on the one hand, and TMS Bulkers and TMS Tankers, on the other hand. These conflicts may arise in connection with the chartering, purchase, sale and operations of the vessels in our fleet versus drybulk carriers and tankers managed by other companies affiliated with TMS Bulkers or TMS Tankers and Mr. Economou. In particular, TMS Bulkers or TMS Tankers may give preferential treatment to vessels that are beneficially owned by related parties because Mr. Economou and members of his family may receive greater economic benefits. We may have difficulty managing our planned growth properly. We intend to continue to grow our fleet. Our future growth will primarily depend on our ability to: • locate and acquire suitable vessels; • identify and consummate acquisitions or joint ventures; • enhance our customer base; • manage our expansion; and • obtain required financing on acceptable terms. Growing any business by acquisition presents numerous risks, such as undisclosed liabilities and obligations, the possibility that indemnification agreements will be unenforceable or insufficient to cover potential losses and difficulties associated with imposing common standards, controls, procedures and policies, obtaining additional qualified personnel, managing relationships with customers and integrating newly acquired assets and operations into existing infrastructure. We may be unable to successfully execute our growth plans or we may incur significant expenses and losses in connection with our future growth which would have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. If any of our vessels fail to maintain their class certification and/or fail any annual survey, intermediate survey, dry docking or special survey, that vessel or unit would be unable to carry cargo or operate, thereby reducing our revenues and profitability and violating certain covenants under our credit facilities. The hull and machinery of every commercial drybulk vessel, tanker and drilling unit must be classed by a classification society authorized by its country of registry. The classification society certifies that a vessel is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of the vessel and the Safety of Life at Sea Convention (“SOLAS”). All of our drybulk vessels are certified as being “in class” by all the major Classification Societies (e.g., American Bureau of Shipping, Lloyd’s Register of Shipping). Both our drilling rigs are certified as being “in class” by De Norske Veritas (DNV). The Leiv Eiriksson completed the 5-year class in 2006 and the Eirik Raude in 2007. The Leiv Eiriksson and the Eirik Raude are due for their next Special Periodic Survey in the first quarter of 2011 and 2012, respectively, while the Ocean Rig Corcovado, the Ocean Rig Olympia, and our drillships under construction are due for their first Special Periodical Survey in 2016. Saga, our tanker that was delivered to us in January 2011, Vilamoura, the tanker delivered to us in March 2011 are due for their first Special Periodical Survey in January 2016. 31 Table of Contents A vessel must undergo annual surveys, intermediate surveys, dry dockings and special surveys. In lieu of a special survey, a vessel’s machinery may be on a continuous survey cycle, under which the machinery would be surveyed periodically over a five-year period. Every vessel is also required to be dry docked every two to three years for inspection of the underwater parts of such vessel. If any vessel or drilling unit does not maintain its class and/or fails any annual survey, intermediate survey, dry docking or special survey, the vessel will be unable to carry cargo between ports, or operate, and will be unemployable and uninsurable which could cause us to be in violation of certain covenants in our credit facilities. Any such inability to carry cargo or be employed, or operate, or any such violation of covenants, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. The aging of our drybulk carrier fleet may result in increased operating costs or loss of hire in the future, which could adversely affect our earnings. In general, the cost of maintaining a vessel in good operating condition increases with the age of the vessel. As of April 12, 2011, the 35 vessels in our drybulk carrier fleet had an average age of 8.1 years. As our fleet ages we will incur increased costs. Older vessels are typically less fuel efficient and more costly to maintain than more recently constructed vessels due to improvements in engine technology. Cargo insurance rates increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers. Governmental regulations and safety or other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may also require expenditures for alterations or the addition of new equipment to our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which our vessels may engage. As our vessels age, market conditions may not justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. In addition, charterers actively discriminate against hiring older vessels. For example, Rightship, the ship vetting service founded by Rio Tinto and BHP-Billiton which has become the major vetting service in the drybulk shipping industry, ranks the suitability of vessels based on a scale of one to five stars. Most major carriers will not charter a vessel that Rightship has vetted with fewer than three stars. Rightship automatically downgrades any vessel over 18 years of age to two stars, which significantly decreases its chances of entering into a charter. Therefore, as our vessels approach and exceed 18 years of age, we may not be able to operate these vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. Our vessels and drilling units may suffer damage and we may face unexpected dry docking costs, which could adversely affect our cash flow and financial condition. If our drybulk vessels or tankers suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a dry docking facility. The costs of dry dock repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. The loss of earnings while our vessels are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease our earnings and reduce the amount of dividends, if any, in the future. We may not have insurance that is sufficient to cover all or any of these costs or losses and may have to pay dry docking costs not covered by our insurance. If our drilling units suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a yard facility. The costs of discontinued operations due to repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. The loss of earnings while our rigs are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease our earnings and reduce the amount of dividends, if any, in the future. We may not have insurance that is sufficient to cover all or any of these costs or losses and may have to pay repair costs not covered by our insurance. We may not be able to maintain or replace our drilling units as they age. The capital associated with the repair and maintenance of our fleet increases with age. We may not be able to maintain our existing drilling units to compete effectively in the market, and our financial resources may not be sufficient to enable us to make expenditures necessary for these purposes or to acquire or build replacement drilling units. Currently, our revenues in our offshore drilling segment depend on two drilling rigs and two drillships, which are designed to operate in harsh environments. The damage or loss of either of these drilling rigs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our revenues in our offshore drilling segment are dependent on two drilling rigs, the Eirik Raude, which is currently operating offshore of Ghana, and the Leiv Eiriksson, which is currently operating in the Black Sea, and the drillship Ocean Rig Corcovado, which is currently earning mobilization and winterization fees under its contract with Cairn Energy plc (“Cairn”) and is scheduled to commence drilling and related operations in Greenland in May 2011. The Ocean Rig Olympia is scheduled to commence in the second quarter of 2011 contracts to drill a total of five wells with Vanco Cote d’Ivoire Ltd. and Vanco Ghana Ltd. (collectively, “Vanco”) for exploration drilling offshore of Ghana and Cote d’Ivoire. Our drilling units may be exposed to risks inherent in deepwater drilling and operating in harsh environments that may cause damage or loss. The drilling of oil and gas wells, particularly exploratory wells where 32 Table of Contents little is known of the subsurface formations involves risks, such as extreme pressure and temperature, blowouts, reservoir damage, loss of production, loss of well control, lost or stuck drill strings, equipment defects, punch throughs, craterings, fires, explosions, pollution and natural disasters such as hurricanes and tropical storms. In addition, offshore drilling operations are subject to perils peculiar to marine operations, either while on-site or during mobilization, including capsizing, sinking, grounding, collision, marine life infestations, and loss or damage from severe weather. The replacement or repair of a rig or drillship could take a significant amount of time, and we may not have any right to compensation for lost revenues during that time, despite our comprehensive loss of hire insurance policy. As long as we have only three drilling units in operation, loss of or serious damage to one of the drilling units could materially reduce our revenues in our offshore drilling segment for the time that a rig or drillship is out of operation. In view of the sophisticated design of the drilling units, we may be unable to obtain a replacement unit that could perform under the conditions that our drilling units are expected to operate, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are exposed to U.S. Dollar and foreign currency fluctuations and devaluations that could harm our reported revenue and results of operations. We generate all of our revenues in U.S. Dollars but currently incur approximately 50% of our operating expenses and the majority of our general and administrative expenses in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, primarily the Euro. Our principal currency for our operations and financing for the offshore drilling sector is the U.S. Dollar. The dayrates for our two drilling rigs, the Leiv Eiriksson and the Eirik Raude, and our drillships, the Ocean Rig Corcovado and the Ocean Rig Olympia, our principal source of revenues in the offshore drilling sector, are quoted and received in U.S. Dollars. The principal currency for operating expenses in the offshore drilling sector is also the U.S. Dollar; however, a significant portion of employee salaries and administration expenses, as well as parts of the consumables and repair and maintenance expenses are paid in Norwegian Kroner (NOK), Great British Pound (GBP), Canadian dollar (CAD) and Euro (EUR). Because a significant portion of our expenses are incurred in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, our expenses may from time to time increase relative to our revenues as a result of fluctuations in exchange rates, particularly between the U.S. Dollar and the Euro, which could affect the amount of net income that we report in future periods. We use financial derivatives to operationally hedge some of our currency exposure. Our use of financial derivatives involves certain risks, including the risk that losses on a hedged position could exceed the nominal amount invested in the instrument and the risk that the counterparty to the derivative transaction may be unable or unwilling to satisfy its contractual obligations, which could have an adverse effect on our results. If the recent volatility in LIBOR continues, it could affect our profitability, earnings and cash flow. LIBOR has recently been volatile, with the spread between LIBOR and the prime lending rate widening significantly at times. These conditions are the result of the recent disruptions in the international credit markets. Because the interest rates borne by our outstanding indebtedness fluctuate with changes in LIBOR, if this volatility were to continue, it would affect the amount of interest payable on our debt, which in turn, could have an adverse effect on our profitability, earnings and cash flow. Furthermore, interest in most loan agreements in our industry has been based on published LIBOR rates. Recently, however, lenders have insisted on provisions that entitle the lenders, in their discretion, to replace published LIBOR as the base for the interest calculation with their cost-of-funds rate. If we are required to agree to such a provision in future loan agreements, our lending costs could increase significantly, which would have an adverse effect on our profitability, earnings and cash flow. We are a holding company, and we depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us in order to satisfy our financial obligations or pay dividends, if any, in the future. We are a holding company and our subsidiaries conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. We have no significant assets other than the equity interests in our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to make dividend payments, if any, in the future depends on our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. Under the waivers of our non-compliance with covenants in our loan agreements, we are prohibited from paying dividends during the waiver period. Furthermore, certain of our subsidiaries are obligated to use their surplus cash to prepay the balance on their long-term loans. If we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries, our board of directors may not exercise its discretion to pay dividends in the future. We do not intend to obtain funds from other sources to pay dividends, if any, in the future. In addition, the declaration and payment of dividends, if any, in the future will depend on the provisions of Marshall Islands law affecting the payment of dividends. Marshall Islands law generally prohibits the payment of dividends if the company is insolvent or would be rendered insolvent upon payment of such dividend and dividends may be declared and paid out of our operating surplus; but in this case, there is no such surplus. Dividends may be declared or paid out of net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared and for the preceding fiscal year. Our ability to pay dividends, if any, in the future will also be subject to our satisfaction of certain financial covenants contained in our credit facilities and certain waivers related thereto. We may be unable to pay dividends in the anticipated amounts or at all. 33 Table of Contents As we expand our business, we may need to improve our operating and financial systems and will need to recruit suitable employees and crew for our vessels. Our current operating and financial systems may not be adequate as we expand the size of our fleet and our attempts to improve those systems may be ineffective. In addition, as we expand our fleet, we will need to recruit suitable additional seafarers and shoreside administrative and management personnel. We may be unable to hire suitable employees as we expand our fleet. If we or our crewing agent encounters business or financial difficulties, we may not be able to adequately staff our vessels. If we are unable to grow our financial and operating systems or to recruit suitable employees as we expand our fleet, our financial performance and our ability to pay dividends, if any, in the future may be adversely affected. U.S. tax authorities could treat us as a “passive foreign investment company,” which could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders. A foreign corporation will be treated as a “passive foreign investment company” (“PFIC”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of “passive income” or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation’s assets produce or are held for the production of those types of “passive income.” For purposes of these tests, “passive income” includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute “passive income.” U.S. shareholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. Based on our method of operation, we do not believe that we are, have been or will be a PFIC with respect to any taxable year. In this regard, we intend to treat the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our time and voyage chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, we believe that our income from our time and voyage chartering activities does not constitute passive income, and the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income do not constitute assets that produce or are held for production of passive income. There is substantial legal authority supporting this position consisting of case law and U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, pronouncements concerning the characterization of income derived from time charters and voyage charters as services income for other tax purposes. However, it should be noted that there is also authority which characterizes time charter income as rental income rather than services income for other tax purposes. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the IRS or a court of law will accept this position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are a PFIC. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we would not constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if the nature and extent of our operations changed. If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, our U.S. shareholders will face adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences and information reporting obligations. Under the PFIC rules, unless those shareholders make an election available under the Code (which election could itself have adverse consequences for such shareholders), such shareholders would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at the then prevailing income tax rates on ordinary income plus interest upon excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our common shares, as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the U.S. shareholder’s holding period of our common shares. See “Item 10.E Taxation” for a more comprehensive discussion of the U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders if we are treated as a PFIC. We may have to pay tax on United States source shipping income, which would reduce our earnings. Under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the “Code”), 50% of the gross shipping income of a vessel-owning or -chartering corporation, such as ourselves and certain of our subsidiaries, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States may be subject to a 4% U.S. federal income tax without allowance for any deductions, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder. We expect that we and each of our vessel-owning subsidiaries qualify for this statutory tax exemption and we have taken and intend to continue to take this position for U.S. federal income tax return reporting purposes. However, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause us to lose the benefit of this tax exemption and thereby become subject to U.S. federal income tax on our U.S. source shipping income. For example, we would no longer qualify for exemption under Section 883 of the Code for a particular taxable year if shareholders with a five percent or greater interest in our common stock owned, in the aggregate, 50% or more of our outstanding common stock for more than half of the days during the taxable year. Due to the factual nature of the issues involved, it is possible that our tax-exempt status or that of any of our subsidiaries may change. If we or our vessel-owning subsidiaries are not entitled to this exemption under Section 883 for any taxable year, we or our subsidiaries could be subject for those years to an effective 2% (i.e., 50% of 4%) U.S. federal income tax on our gross shipping 34 Table of Contents income attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States. The imposition of this taxation could have a negative effect on our business and would result in decreased earnings available for distribution to our shareholders. The preferential tax rates applicable to qualified dividend income are temporary, and the enactment of proposed legislation could affect whether dividends paid by us constitute qualified dividend income eligible for the preferential rate. Certain of our distributions may be treated as qualified dividend income eligible for preferential rates of U.S. federal income tax to non-corporate U.S. shareholders. In the absence of legislation extending the term for these preferential tax rates, all dividends received by such U.S. taxpayers in tax years beginning on January 1, 2013 or later will be taxed at graduated tax rates applicable to ordinary income. In addition, legislation has been previously proposed in the U.S. Congress that would, if enacted, deny the preferential rate of U.S. federal income tax currently imposed on qualified dividend income with respect to dividends received from a non-U.S. corporation if the non-U.S. corporation is created or organized under the laws of a jurisdiction that does not have a comprehensive income tax system. Because the Marshall Islands imposes only limited taxes on entities organized under its laws, it is likely that if this legislation were enacted, the preferential tax rates of federal income tax may no longer be applicable to distributions received from us. As of the date of this prospectus, it is not possible to predict with certainty whether this proposed legislation will be enacted. A change in tax laws, treaties or regulations, or their interpretation, of any country in which we operate our drilling units could result in a high tax rate on our worldwide earnings, which could result in a significant negative impact on our earnings and cash flows from operations. We conduct our worldwide drilling operations through various subsidiaries. Tax laws and regulations are highly complex and subject to interpretation. Consequently, we are subject to changing tax laws, treaties and regulations in and between countries in which we operate. Our income tax expense is based upon our interpretation of tax laws in effect in various countries at the time that the expense was incurred. A change in these tax laws, treaties or regulations, or in the interpretation thereof, or in the valuation of our deferred tax assets, could result in a materially higher tax expense or a higher effective tax rate on our worldwide earnings in our offshore drilling segment, and such change could be significant to our financial results. If any tax authority successfully challenges our operational structure, inter-company pricing policies or the taxable presence of our key subsidiaries in certain countries; or if the terms of certain income tax treaties are interpreted in a manner that is adverse to our structure; or if we lose a material tax dispute in any country, particularly in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, or Norway, our effective tax rate on our worldwide earnings from our offshore drilling operations could increase substantially and our earnings and cash flows from these operations could be materially adversely affected. Our subsidiaries that provide services relating to drilling may be subject to taxation in the jurisdictions in which such activities are conducted. Such taxation would result in decreased earnings available to our shareholders. Ocean Rig ASA has transferred the domicile of its subsidiaries that own, directly or indirectly, the Leiv Eiriksson and the Eirik Raude to the Republic of the Marshall Islands. The Leiv Eiriksson and the Eirik Raude were transferred to the Marshall Island entities in December 2008 and the remainder of the rig-owning structure has been reorganized under Marshall Island entities during 2009. Investors are encouraged to consult their own tax advisors concerning the overall tax consequences of the ownership of our common stock arising in an investor’s particular situation under U.S. federal, state, local and foreign law. A spin-off of our offshore drilling or tanker segment may have adverse tax consequences to shareholders. Sometime in 2011, we may distribute, or spin-off, a voting and economic interest in our majority-owned subsidiary, Ocean Rig UDW, formerly known as Primelead Shareholders Inc., which owns and operates our drilling units. Also in 2011, we may spin-off our wholly-owned subsidiary, Olympian Heracles Holding Inc. (“Olympian Heracles Holding”), which owns our existing tanker Vessel and the construction contracts for our newbuilding tanker vessels. A spin-off of Ocean Rig UDW or Olympian Heracles Holding may be a taxable transaction to our shareholders depending upon their country of residence. A shareholder may recognize taxable gain and be subject to tax as a result of receiving shares of Ocean Rig UDW or Olympian Heracles Holding in the spin-off, notwithstanding that cash had not been received. In addition, after the spin-off, Ocean Rig UDW or Olympian Heracles Holding may be treated as a PFIC, which would have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to a U.S. shareholder of Ocean Rig UDW or Olympian Heracles Holding. Under the PFIC rules, unless those shareholders make an election available under the Code (which election could itself have adverse consequences for such shareholders), such U.S. shareholders would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at the then prevailing income tax rates on ordinary income plus interest upon excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of shares of Ocean Rig UDW or Olympian Heracles Holding, as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the shareholder’s holding period in such shares. In the alternative, Ocean Rig UDW or Olympian Heracles Holding may 35 Table of Contents issue shares of its common stock in a public offering. If as a result of such issuance, our ownership of Ocean Rig UDW or Olympian Heracles Holding was reduced to less than 25% (but more than 0%) of the outstanding capital stock of such entity, our ownership of Ocean Rig UDW or Olympian Heracles Holding common stock could be treated as a passive asset for purposes of determining whether we are a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If our vessels call on ports located in countries that are subject to restrictions imposed by the U.S. or other governments, that could adversely affect our reputation and the market for our common stock. From time to time on charterers’ instructions, our vessels may call on ports located in countries subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the United States government and countries identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism. The U.S. sanctions and embargo laws and regulations vary in their application, as they do not all apply to the same covered persons or proscribe the same activities, and such sanctions and embargo laws and regulations may be amended or strengthened over time. In 2010, the U.S. enacted the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions Accountability and Divestment Act (“CISADA”), which expanded the scope of the former Iran Sanctions Act. Among other things, CISADA expands the application of the prohibitions to non-U.S. companies and introduces limits on the ability of companies and persons to do business or trade with Iran when such activities relate to the investment, supply or export of refined petroleum or petroleum products. Although we believe that we are in compliance with all applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations, and intend to maintain such compliance, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance in the future, particularly as the scope of certain laws may be unclear and may be subject to changing interpretations. Any such violation could result in fines or other penalties and could result in some investors deciding, or being required, to divest their interest, or not to invest, in our company. Additionally, some investors may decide to divest their interest, or not to invest, in our company simply because we do business with companies that do business in sanctioned countries. Moreover, our charterers may violate applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations as a result of actions that do not involve us or our vessels, and those violations could in turn negatively affect our reputation. Investor perception of the value of our common stock may also be adversely affected by the consequences of war, the effects of terrorism, civil unrest and governmental actions in these and surrounding countries. We may be subject to premium payment calls because we obtain some of our insurance through protection and indemnity associations. For our drybulk vessels, we may be subject to increased premium payments, or calls, in amounts based on our claim records as well as the claim records of other members of the protection and indemnity associations in the International Group, which is comprised of 13 mutual protection and indemnity associations and insures approximately 90% of the world’s commercial tonnage and through which we receive insurance coverage for tort liability, including pollution-related liability, as well as actual claims. Although there is no cap to the amount of such supplemental calls, historically, supplemental calls for our fleet have ranged from 0% to 40% of the annual insurance premiums, and in no year were such amounts material to the results of our operations. For the drilling units, we may be subject to increased premium payments, or calls, in amounts based on our claim records. Our customers may be involved in the handling of environmentally hazardous substances and if discharged into the ocean may subject us to pollution liability which could have a negative impact on our cash flows, results of operations and ability to pay dividends, if any, in the future. Our operations may involve the use or handling of materials that may be classified as environmentally hazardous substances. Environmental laws and regulations applicable in the countries in which we conduct operations have generally become more stringent. Such laws and regulations may expose us to liability for the conduct of or for conditions caused by others, or for our acts that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time such actions were taken. During our drilling operations in the past, we, through our subsidiary Ocean Rig UDW, have caused the release of oil, waste and other pollutants into the sea and into protected areas, such as the Barents Sea where on April 12, 2005, we discharged less than one cubic meter of hydraulic oil. While we conduct maintenance on our drilling units in an effort to prevent such releases, future releases could occur, especially as our rigs age. Such releases may be large in quantity, above our permitted limits or in protected or other areas in which public interest groups or governmental authorities have an interest. These releases could result in fines and other costs to us, such as costs to upgrade our drilling units, costs to clean up the pollution, and costs to comply with more stringent requirements in our discharge permits. Moreover, these releases may result in our customers or governmental authorities suspending or terminating our operations in the affected area, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. We expect that we will be able to obtain some degree of contractual indemnification from our customers in most of our drilling contracts against pollution and environmental damages. But such indemnification may not be enforceable in all instances, the customer may not be financially capable in all cases of complying with its indemnity obligations or we may not be able to obtain such indemnification agreements in the future. 36 Table of Contents Failure to attract or retain key personnel, labor disruptions or an increase in labor costs could hurt our operations in the offshore drilling sector. We require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our business in the offshore drilling sector worldwide. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately 564 employees, the majority of whom are permanent crew employed on the Leiv Eiriksson, the Eirik Raude and the Ocean Rig Corcovado. We will need to recruit additional qualified personnel as we take delivery of our newbuilding drillships. Competition for the labor required for drilling operations has intensified as the number of rigs activated, added to worldwide fleets or under construction has increased, leading to shortages of qualified personnel in the industry and creating upward pressure on wages and higher turnover. If turnover increases, we could see a reduction in the experience level of our personnel, which could lead to higher downtime, more operating incidents and personal injury and other claims, which in turn could decrease revenues and increase costs. In response to these labor market conditions, we are increasing efforts in our recruitment, training, development and retention programs as required to meet our anticipated personnel needs. If these labor trends continue, we may experience further increases in costs or limits on our offshore drilling operations. If we choose to cease operations in one of those countries or if market conditions reduce the demand for our drilling services in such a country, we would incur costs, which may be material, associated with workforce reductions. Currently, none of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. In the future, some of our employees or contracted labor may be covered by collective bargaining agreements in certain jurisdictions such as Brazil, Nigeria, Norway and the U.K. As part of the legal obligations in some of these agreements, we may be required to contribute certain amounts to retirement funds and pension plans and have restricted ability to dismiss employees. In addition, many of these represented individuals could be working under agreements that are subject to salary negotiation. These negotiations could result in higher personnel costs, other increased costs or increased operating restrictions that could adversely affect our financial performance. Labor disruptions could hinder our operations from being carried out normally and if not resolved in a timely cost-effective manner, could have a material impact our business. Our operating and maintenance costs with respect to our offshore drilling units will not necessarily fluctuate in proportion to changes in operating revenues, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Operating revenues may fluctuate as a function of changes in dayrates. However, costs for operating a drilling unit are generally fixed regardless of the dayrate being earned. Therefore, our operating and maintenance costs with respect to our offshore drilling units will not necessarily fluctuate in proportion to changes in operating revenues. In addition, should our drilling units incur idle time between contracts, we typically will not de-man those drilling units but rather use the crew to prepare the rig for its next contract. During times of reduced activity, reductions in costs may not be immediate, as portions of the crew may be required to prepare rigs for stacking, after which time the crew members are assigned to active rigs or dismissed. In addition, as our drilling units are mobilized from one geographic location to another, labor and other operating and maintenance costs can vary significantly. In general, labor costs increase primarily due to higher salary levels and inflation. Equipment maintenance expenses fluctuate depending upon the type of activity the unit is performing and the age and condition of the equipment. Contract preparation expenses vary based on the scope and length of contract preparation required and the duration of the firm contractual period over which such expenditures are incurred. If we experience increased operating costs without a corresponding increase in earnings, this may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We may be subject to litigation that, if not resolved in our favor and not sufficiently insured against, could have a material adverse effect on us. We have been and may be, from time to time, involved in various litigation matters. These matters may include, among other things, contract disputes, personal injury claims, environmental claims or proceedings, asbestos and other toxic tort claims, employment matters, governmental claims for taxes or duties, and other litigation that arises in the ordinary course of our business. Although we intend to defend these matters vigorously, we cannot predict with certainty the outcome or effect of any claim or other litigation matter, and the ultimate outcome of any litigation or the potential costs to resolve them may have a material adverse effect on us. Insurance may not be applicable or sufficient in all cases and/or insurers may not remain solvent which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. 37 Table of Contents Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could result in fines, criminal penalties, drilling contract terminations and an adverse effect on our business. We may operate in a number of countries throughout the world, including countries known to have a reputation for corruption. We are committed to doing business in accordance with applicable anti-corruption laws and have adopted a code of business conduct and ethics which is consistent and in full compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977. We are subject, however, to the risk that we, our affiliated entities or our or their respective officers, directors, employees and agents may take actions determined to be in violation of such anti-corruption laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Any such violation could result in substantial fines, sanctions, civil and/or criminal penalties, curtailment of operations in certain jurisdictions, and might adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, actual or alleged violations could damage our reputation and ability to do business. Furthermore, detecting, investigating, and resolving actual or alleged violations is expensive and can consume significant time and attention of our senior management. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock We are incorporated in the Republic of the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of corporate law, and as a result, shareholders may have fewer rights and protections under Marshall Islands law than under a typical jurisdiction in the United States. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws and by the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act (the “BCA”). The provisions of the BCA resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, there have been few judicial cases in the Republic of the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA. The rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the law of the Republic of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain United States jurisdictions. Shareholder rights may differ as well. While the BCA does specifically incorporate the non-statutory law, or judicial case law, of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, who may be deemed to beneficially own, directly or indirectly, approximately 13.9% of our common stock, may have the power to exert control over us, which may limit your ability to influence our actions. As of April 12, 2011, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. George Economou, may be deemed to beneficially own, directly or indirectly, approximately 13.9% of the outstanding shares of our common stock and therefore may have the power to exert considerable influence over our actions. The interests of our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer may be different from your interests. Future sales of our common stock could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The market price of our common stock could decline due to sales, or the announcements of proposed sales, of a large number of common stock in the market, including sales of common stock by our large shareholders, or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales, or the perception that these sales could occur, could also make it more difficult or impossible for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate to raise funds through future offerings of common stock. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to, among other things, issue additional shares of common or preferred stock or securities convertible or exchangeable into equity securities, without shareholder approval. We may issue such additional equity or convertible securities to raise additional capital. The issuance of any additional shares of common or preferred stock or convertible securities could be substantially dilutive to our shareholders. Moreover, to the extent that we issue restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights, options or warrants to purchase our common shares in the future and those stock appreciation rights, options or warrants are exercised or as the restricted stock units vest, our shareholders may experience further dilution. Holders of shares of our common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle such holders to purchase their pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, such sales or offerings could result in increased dilution to our shareholders. There is no guarantee of a continuing public market for you to resell our common stock. Our common shares commenced trading on the NASDAQ National Market, now the NASDAQ Global Market, in February 2005. Our common shares now trade on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. We cannot assure you that an active and liquid public market for our common shares will continue. The price of our common stock may be volatile and may fluctuate due to factors such as: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results and those of other public companies in our industry; 38 Table of Contents • mergers and strategic alliances in the drybulk shipping industry; • market conditions in the drybulk shipping industry and the general state of the securities markets; • changes in government regulation; • shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecast by securities analysts; and • announcements concerning us or our competitors. Recently, the trading price of our common stock has fallen below $5.00 and if it remains below that level, under stock exchange rules, our stockholders will not be able to use such shares as collateral for borrowing in margin accounts. This inability to use our common shares as collateral may depress demand as certain institutional investors are restricted from investing in shares priced below $5.00 and lead to sales of such shares creating downward pressure on and increased volatility in the market price of our common shares. You may not be able to sell your shares of our common stock in the future at the price that you paid for them or at all. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents could make it difficult for our stockholders to replace or remove our current board of directors or have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Several provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws could make it difficult for our stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors in any one year, preventing them from changing the composition of management. In addition, the same provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable. These provisions include: • prior to the date of the transaction that resulted in the shareholder becoming an interested shareholder, our board of directors approved either the business combination or the transaction that resulted in the shareholder becoming an interested shareholder; • authorizing our board of directors to issue “blank check” preferred stock without stockholder approval; • providing for a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms; • prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; • authorizing the removal of directors only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock entitled to vote for the directors; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; • limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; and • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. Under our stockholders’ rights plan adopted in 2008, amended in 2009 and further amended in 2010, our board of directors declared a dividend of one preferred share purchase right, or a right, to purchase one one-thousandth of a share of our Series A Participating Preferred Stock for each outstanding common share. Each right entitles the registered holder, upon the occurrence of certain events, to purchase from us one one-thousandth of a share of Series A Participating Preferred Stock. The rights may have anti-takeover effects. The rights will cause substantial dilution to any person or group that attempts to acquire us without the approval of our board of directors. As a result, the overall effect of the rights may be to render more difficult or discourage any attempt to acquire us. Because our board of directors can approve a redemption of the rights or a permitted offer, the rights should not interfere with a merger or other business combination approved by our board of directors. The adoption of the rights agreement was approved by our existing stockholders prior to the offering. Although the Marshall Islands Business Corporation Act does not contain specific provisions regarding “business combinations” between corporations organized under the laws of the Republic of Marshall Islands and “interested shareholders,” we have included provisions regarding such combinations in our articles of incorporation. 39 Table of Contents Our articles of incorporation contain provisions which prohibit us from engaging in a business combination with an interested shareholder for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested shareholder, unless: • authorizing our board of directors to issue “blank check” preferred stock without stockholder approval; • upon consummation of the transaction that resulted in the shareholder becoming an interested shareholder, the interested shareholder owned at least 85% of our voting stock outstanding at the time the transaction commenced; • at or subsequent to the date of the transaction that resulted in the shareholder becoming an interested shareholder, the business combination is approved by the board of directors and authorized at an annual or special meeting of shareholders by the affirmative vote of at least 66 2/3% of the outstanding voting stock that is not owned by the interested shareholder; or • the shareholder became an interested shareholder prior to the consummation of the Initial Public Offering. For purposes of these provisions, a “business combination” includes mergers, consolidations, exchanges, asset sales, leases and other transactions resulting in a financial benefit to the interested shareholder and an “interested shareholder” is any person or entity that beneficially owns 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock and any person or entity affiliated with or controlling or controlled by that person or entity. Further, the term “business combination”, when used in reference to us and any “interested shareholder” does not include any transactions for which definitive agreements were entered into prior to the date the articles were filed with the Republic of the Marshall Islands. 