Risk Factors We may not have sufficient cash from operations to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution on our common units following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses. We may not have sufficient cash available each quarter to pay the minimum quarterly distribution on our common units. The amount of cash we can distribute on our common units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which may fluctuate based on, among other things: • the rates we obtain from our charters; • the level of our operating costs, such as the cost of crews and insurance; • the continued availability of LNG and LPG production, liquefaction and regasification facilities; • the number of unscheduled off-hire days for our fleet and the timing of, and number of days required for, scheduled drydocking of our vessels; • delays in the delivery of newbuildings and the beginning of payments under charters relating to those vessels; • prevailing global and regional economic and political conditions; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; and • the effect of governmental regulations and maritime self-regulatory organization standards on the conduct of our business. The actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution also will depend on factors such as: • the level of capital expenditures we make, including for maintaining vessels, building new vessels, acquiring existing vessels and complying with regulations; • our debt service requirements and restrictions on distributions contained in our debt instruments; • fluctuations in our working capital needs; • our ability to make working capital borrowings, including to pay distributions to unitholders; and • the amount of any cash reserves, including reserves for future capital expenditures and other matters, established by our general partner in its discretion. The amount of cash we generate from our operations may differ materially from our profit or loss for the period, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result of this and the other factors mentioned above, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net income. We make substantial capital expenditures to maintain the operating capacity of our fleet, which reduce our cash available for distribution. In addition, each quarter our general partner is required to deduct estimated maintenance capital expenditures from operating surplus, which may result in less cash available to unitholders than if actual maintenance capital expenditures were deducted. We must make substantial capital expenditures to maintain, over the long term, the operating capacity of our fleet. These maintenance capital expenditures include capital expenditures associated with drydocking a vessel, modifying an existing vessel or acquiring a new vessel to the extent these expenditures are incurred to maintain the operating capacity of our fleet. These expenditures could increase as a result of changes in: • the cost of labor and materials; • customer requirements; • increases in the size of our fleet; • governmental regulations and maritime self-regulatory organization standards relating to safety, security or the environment; and • competitive standards. Our significant maintenance capital expenditures reduce the amount of cash we have available for distribution to our unitholders. 9 Table of Contents In addition, our actual maintenance capital expenditures vary significantly from quarter to quarter based on, among other things, the number of vessels drydocked during that quarter. Our partnership agreement requires our general partner to deduct estimated, rather than actual, maintenance capital expenditures from operating surplus each quarter in an effort to reduce fluctuations in operating surplus (as defined in our partnership agreement). The amount of estimated maintenance capital expenditures deducted from operating surplus is subject to review and change by the conflicts committee of our general partner’s board of directors at least once a year. In years when estimated maintenance capital expenditures are higher than actual maintenance capital expenditures — as we expect will be the case in the years we are not required to make expenditures for mandatory drydockings — the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders will be lower than if actual maintenance capital expenditures were deducted from operating surplus. If our general partner underestimates the appropriate level of estimated maintenance capital expenditures, we may have less cash available for distribution in future periods when actual capital expenditures begin to exceed our previous estimates. We make substantial capital expenditures to expand the size of our fleet. We generally are required to make significant installment payments for acquisitions of newbuilding vessels prior to their delivery and generation of revenue. Depending on whether we finance our expenditures through cash from operations or by issuing debt or equity securities, our ability to make cash distributions may be diminished or our financial leverage may increase or our unitholders may be diluted. We make substantial capital expenditures to increase the size of our fleet, particularly the number of LNG and LPG carriers we own. We have agreed to purchase from Teekay Corporation its interests in a number of LNG newbuilding carriers and from I.M. Skaugen ASA (or Skaugen) three LPG carriers. Teekay Corporation is obligated to offer to us its interests in additional vessels. Please read 