ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We depend on the sale by our licensees of products that incorporate our technologies and any reduction in those sales would adversely affect our licensing revenue. Licensing revenue constitutes the majority of our total revenue, representing 83%, 77%, and 83% in fiscal 2009, 2010, and fiscal 2011, respectively. We do not manufacture consumer entertainment products ourselves and we depend on licensees and customers, including software vendors and original equipment manufacturers (“OEM”), to incorporate our technologies into their products. Although we have license agreements with many of these companies, these agreements do not have minimum purchase commitments, are non-exclusive, and do not generally require incorporation or use of our technologies. Accordingly, our revenue will decline if our licensees choose not to incorporate our technologies in their products, or if they sell fewer products incorporating our technologies, or if they otherwise face significant economic difficulties. Changes in consumer tastes or trends, rapidly evolving technology, competing products, changes in industry standards or adverse changes in business and economic conditions, among other things, may result in lower sales of products incorporating our technologies which would adversely affect our licensing revenue. We also face the risk that our licensees retain product channel inventory levels that exceed future anticipated sales. If such product sales do not occur in the time frame anticipated by our licensees for any reason, these licensees may substantially decrease the number of technologies they license from us in subsequent periods. We are monitoring the situation in Thailand in light of the recent flooding to determine any potential risks of disruption which would adversely affect our operating results. We are unable to predict the full effect of the recent catastrophe. Because our technologies are typically embedded in our licensees’ products, a disruption in our licensees’ global supply chains could adversely affect our revenue. To the extent that sales of PCs with Dolby technologies decline, our licensing revenue will be adversely affected. Revenue from our PC market depends on several factors, including underlying PC unit shipment growth, the extent to which our technologies are included on computers, through operating systems, independent software vendors (“ISV”) media applications, or otherwise, and the terms of any royalties or other payments we receive from licensors of such software. In the short term, we face many risks in the PC market that may affect our ability to successfully participate in that market, including, but not limited to the following: • Purchasing trends for netbooks, low-cost PCs, and tablets, which may not include operating systems or ISV media applications with our technologies; • Unauthorized and infringing PC software with our technologies for which we do not receive royalty payments; • Hard disk drive shortages due to the Thailand flooding may adversely impact PC sales; • The inclusion of our technologies in business-oriented editions of Windows 7 could result in our technologies residing in a greater percentage of PCs, resulting in substantial discounts and reducing the average per unit royalty we receive from Microsoft over time; and 16 Table of Contents • Certain PC OEMs have excluded, and we expect others will exclude in the future, ISV media applications from their product offerings for Windows 7 based PCs, because Windows 7 incorporates DVD playback software. In the long-term, we face additional risks, including, but not limited to the following: • Whether our technologies will be included in future PC operating systems, such as Windows 8; • The extent and rate at which Windows 8 is adopted in the marketplace; • The extent to which earlier versions of Microsoft operating systems, including Windows 7, continue to be licensed after the release of Windows 8; • Our ability to establish and extend direct licensing relationships with OEMs as we have done in the past; • PC OEMs may not participate in our new licensing program, or they may install our software on fewer PCs, or require aftermarket end-user installation; • The rate at which optical disc media shifts to online media content resulting in fewer PCs with optical disc drives and declines in PC DVD and Blu-ray Disc players; • If we license our technologies on a per device basis, rather than on a per application basis, we will no longer collect multiple royalties per PC which may impact our results of operations; and • Our ability to extend the adoption of our technologies in online and mobile platforms and devices. Any of these risks could adversely affect our licensing revenue. General economic conditions may reduce our revenue and harm our business. We continue to be cautious regarding future general economic conditions and their potential for suppressed consumer demand in the markets in which we license our technologies and sell our products. Our business could be affected by adverse changes in general economic conditions because our technologies are incorporated in consumer entertainment products, which are generally discretionary goods, such as PCs, digital televisions, set-top boxes, DVD players and recorders, Blu-ray Disc players, video game consoles, audio/video receivers, mobile devices, in-car entertainment systems, home-theater-in-a-box systems, camcorders, and portable media devices. The global economic environment has adversely affected consumer confidence, disposable income, and spending. While we cannot predict future general economic conditions, these conditions may persist or worsen. Furthermore, continued weakness in general economic conditions may result in a greater likelihood that more of our licensees and customers will become delinquent on their obligations to us or be unable to pay, which in turn could result in a higher level of write-offs. Additionally, such economic conditions may result in increased underreporting and non-reporting of royalty-bearing revenue by our licensees as well as increased unauthorized use of our technologies, all of which would adversely affect our revenues. Our future success depends upon the growth of new and existing markets for our technologies and our ability to develop and adapt our technologies for those markets. The future growth of our licensing revenue will depend, in part, upon the growth of, and our successful participation in, new and existing markets for our technologies, such as digital broadcast, online and mobile media distribution, consumer video and voice. For example, growth of our broadcast revenue is dependent upon continued global growth of digital television broadcasting and the adoption of our technologies into emerging digital broadcast standards. In addition, our revenue is dependent upon the growth of the PC market and the continued adoption of our technologies into PCs as well as the adoption of our technologies into connected portable devices such as tablets and smart phones. Furthermore, our ability to drive OEM demand for our technologies depends in part on whether or not we are able to successfully participate in the online and mobile content delivery markets. 17 Table of Contents Our ability to penetrate new and existing markets for our technologies depends on increased consumer demand for products that contain our technologies, which may not occur. Some of these markets are ones in which we have not previously participated or have limited experience, such as voice and consumer video, and we may not adequately adapt our business and our technologies to consumer demand. If new and existing markets for our technologies do not develop or consumer demand for products that contain our technologies does not grow, our business and prospects would be materially adversely affected. If we do not continue to develop and deliver innovative technologies in response to industry and technology changes, our business could decline. The markets for our technologies and products are defined by: • Rapid technological change; • New and improved technology and product introductions; • Changing consumer and licensee demands; • Evolving industry standards; and • Technology and product obsolescence. Our future success depends on our ability to enhance our existing technologies and products and to develop acceptable new technologies and products that address the needs of the market in a timely manner. The development of enhanced and new technologies and products is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation, highly-skilled engineering and development personnel, and the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. We may not be able to identify, develop, acquire, market, or support new or enhanced technologies or products on a timely basis, if at all. For example, while we view the continued advancements in online and mobile media content delivery as an area of opportunity, if we are not able to competitively address the needs of the changing online and mobile markets, our ability to generate revenue from those markets would be limited. At times such changes can be dramatic, such as the shift from VHS tapes to DVDs for consumer playback of movies in homes and elsewhere. We face many risks related to the emerging 3D cinema market. We face many risks in the 3D cinema market which may affect our ability to successfully participate in that market, including, but not limited to the following: • We face risks that our customers maintain excess product inventory levels which could reduce future anticipated sales; • At least one of our competitors has exclusive licensing arrangements for 3D products with theater exhibitors, which has in the past and we expect will in the future restrict our ability to compete in the 3D market; • The 3D market has become increasingly competitive and we may lose further market share; • As the industry transition to 3D enabled screens becomes substantially complete, demand for new 3D enabled screens will drop significantly and the industry will enter into a replacement cycle; • Industry participants may perceive our up-front 3D equipment costs and reusable glasses business model or our 3D products as less attractive; • Our participation in the 3D cinema market will be limited to the extent theaters do not convert from analog to digital cinema; • Demand for our 3D cinema products is driven by the number of 3D cinema releases and the commercial success of those releases; 18 Table of Contents • Our 3D glasses could become subject to regulation in the U.S. and other countries in the future, which could restrict how our 3D glasses are manufactured, used, or marketed; and • There has been increased public scrutiny of potential health risks relating to viewing 3D movies. If these potential health risks are substantiated, the popularity of 3D movies could decline. In addition, if health risks associated with our 3D products materialize, we may become subject to government regulation or product liability claims, including personal injury claims. If we are unable to manage these risks effectively, our ability to compete profitably in the 3D cinema market may be adversely affected. Events and conditions in the cinema and broadcast industries may affect sales of our cinema products and other services. Sales of our cinema products and services tend to fluctuate based on the underlying trends in the cinema industry. For example, when box office receipts for the cinema industry increase, we have typically seen a corresponding increase in sales of our cinema products, as cinema owners will be more likely to build new theaters and upgrade existing theaters with our more advanced products. Conversely, when box office receipts are down, cinema owners tend to scale back on plans to expand or upgrade their systems. Our cinema product sales are also subject to fluctuations based on events and conditions in the cinema industry generally that may or may not be tied to box office receipts in particular time periods. For example, the growth in piracy of motion pictures adversely affects the construction of new screens, the renovation of existing theaters, and the continued production of new motion pictures. Our services revenue, both in the U.S. and internationally, is tied to the number of movies being made by major film studios and independent filmmakers. A number of factors can affect the number of movies that are produced, including strikes and work stoppages within the cinema industry, as well as by the tax incentive arrangements that many foreign governments provide filmmakers to promote local filmmaking. The demand for our cinema products and services could decline as the cinema industry adopts digital cinema. As cinema exhibitors have constructed new theaters or upgraded existing theaters, they have generally chosen digital cinema over traditional film cinema and we expect this trend to continue. Digital cinema, which is based on open standards, does not include our proprietary audio technologies. As the cinema industry continues to adopt digital cinema, the demand for our traditional film cinema products and services has declined significantly and we anticipate that the demand for film based products will decline in future periods. Furthermore, exhibitors adopting digital cinema can choose from multiple digital cinema playback servers and audio processors, many of which may not contain our technologies. If the demand for our traditional film cinema products and services continues to decrease without a meaningful increase in revenue from digital cinema products and services, our revenue stream from the cinema industry would be adversely affected. A decrease in demand for our cinema products and services could adversely affect our consumer products licensing business. A decrease in the demand for our cinema products and services could adversely affect licensing of our consumer technologies, because the strength of our brand and our ability to use professional product developments to introduce new technologies, which can later be licensed to OEMs and service providers, would be impaired. If, in such circumstances, we are unable to adapt our products and services or introduce new products for the digital cinema market successfully, our business could be materially adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents We face risks relating to the online and mobile content delivery markets and declines in optical disc media. For nearly 20 years, movies have been distributed, purchased, and consumed through optical disc media, such as DVD and more recently Blu-ray Disc. However, the growth of the Internet and home computer usage, connected televisions, set-top boxes, tablets, smart phones, and other devices accompanied by the rapid advancement of online and mobile content delivery has resulted in the recent trend to movie download and streaming services in various parts of the world. We expect a further shift away from optical disc media to online and mobile media content consumption, which will result in declines in revenue from DVD and Blu-ray Disc players. Such declines would adversely affect our licensing revenue. In addition, online and mobile media content services that compete with or replace DVD and Blu-ray Disc players as dominant media for consumer video entertainment may choose not to encode their content with our proprietary technologies, which could affect OEM and software vendor demand for our decoding technologies. Furthermore, our participation in online media content playback may be less profitable for us than DVD and Blu-ray Disc players. The online and mobile markets are characterized by intense competition, evolving industry standards and business and distribution models, disruptive software and hardware technology developments, frequent new product and service introductions, short product and service life cycles, and price sensitivity on the part of consumers, all of which may result in downward pressure on pricing. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our operating results may fluctuate depending upon the timing of when we receive royalty reports from our licensees, royalty report adjustments, and the satisfaction of our revenue recognition criteria. Our quarterly operating results fluctuate based on the risks set forth in this section, as well as on: • The timing of when we receive royalty reports from our licensees and when we have met all revenue recognition criteria; • Royalty reports including positive or negative corrective adjustments; • Retroactive royalties that cover extended periods of time; • The recognition of unusually large amounts of licensing revenue from licensees in any given quarter because not all of our revenue recognition criteria were met in prior periods; and • The recognition of large amounts of products and services revenue in any given quarter because not all of our revenue recognition criteria were met in prior periods. This can result in the recognition of a large amount of revenue in a given quarter that is not necessarily indicative of the amounts of revenue to be received in future quarters, thus causing fluctuations in our operating results. Inaccurate licensee royalty reporting could materially adversely affect our operating results. We generate licensing revenue primarily from OEMs and software vendors who license our technologies and incorporate those technologies in their products. Our license agreements generally obligate our licensees to pay us a specified royalty for every product they ship that incorporates our technologies, and we rely on our licensees to accurately report their shipments. However, we have difficulty independently determining whether or not our licensees are reporting shipments accurately, particularly with respect to software incorporating our technologies because unauthorized copies of such software can be made relatively easily. Most of our license agreements permit us to audit our licensees’ records, but audits are generally expensive, time consuming, and potentially detrimental to our ongoing business relationships with our licensees. In the past, licensees, particularly in emerging economies, such as China, have understated or failed to report the number of products incorporating our technologies that they shipped, and we have not been able to 20 Table of Contents collect and recognize revenue to which we were entitled. We expect that we will continue to experience understatement and non-reporting of royalties by our licensees, which could adversely affect our operating results. Conversely, to the extent that our licensees overstate the number of products incorporating our technologies, or report the products under the wrong categories, corrections of prior reports could result in reductions of royalty revenue in subsequent periods, which could also adversely affect our operating results. Third parties from whom we license technologies may challenge our calculation of the royalties we owe them for inclusion of their technologies in our products and licensed technologies, which could adversely affect our operating results, business, and prospects. In some cases, the products we sell and the technologies we license to our customers include intellectual property that we have licensed from third parties. Our agreements with these third parties generally require us to pay them royalties for that use, and give the third parties the right to audit our calculation of those royalties. A third party may disagree with our interpretation of the terms of a license agreement or, as a result of an audit, a third party could challenge the accuracy of our calculation. We have in the past been, and may in the future be, involved in disputes with third party technology licensors regarding license terms. A successful challenge by a third party could result in the termination of a license agreement or increase the amount of royalties we have to pay to the third party, which would decrease our gross margin and adversely affect our operating results. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property could materially adversely affect our operating results. We have often experienced, and expect to continue to experience, problems with non-licensee OEMs and software vendors, particularly in emerging economies, such as China, incorporating our technologies and trademarks into their products without our authorization and without paying us any licensing fees. Manufacturers of integrated circuits, or ICs, containing our technologies occasionally sell these ICs to third parties who are not our system licensees. These sales, and the failure of such manufacturers to report the sales, facilitate the unauthorized use of our intellectual property. As emerging economies transition from analog to digital content, such as the transition from analog to digital broadcast, we expect to experience increased problems with this form of piracy, which would adversely affect our operating results. We have limited experience in non-sound technology markets which could limit our future growth. Our future growth will depend, in part, upon our expansion into areas beyond sound technologies. For example, in addition to our digital cinema and 3D digital cinema initiatives, we are exploring other areas that facilitate delivery of digital entertainment, such as video solutions for the consumer market. We will need to spend considerable resources in the future on research and development or acquisitions in order to deliver innovative non-sound products and technologies. However, we have limited experience in non-sound technology markets and, despite our efforts, non-sound products, technologies, and services we expect to develop or acquire and market may not achieve or sustain market acceptance, may not meet industry needs, and may not be accepted as industry standards. If we are unsuccessful in selling non-sound products, technologies, and services, the future growth of our business may be limited. If our products and technologies are not adopted as industry standards, our business prospects could be limited and our operating results could be adversely affected. The entertainment industry depends upon industry standards to ensure compatibility across delivery platforms and a wide variety of consumer entertainment products. Accordingly, we make significant efforts to design our products and technologies to address capability, quality, and cost considerations so that they either meet, or, more importantly, are adopted as, industry standards across the broad range of entertainment industry markets in which we participate, as well as the markets in which we hope to compete in the future. To have our 21 Table of Contents products and technologies adopted as industry standards, we must convince a broad spectrum of standards-setting organizations throughout the world, as well as our major customers and licensees who are members of such organizations, to adopt them as such and to ensure that other industry standards are consistent with our products and technologies. If our technologies are not adopted or do not remain as industry standards, our business, operating results, and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, the market for broadcast technologies has traditionally been heavily based on industry standards, often set by governments or other standards-setting organizations, and we expect this to be the case in the future. If our technologies are not chosen as industry standards for broadcasting in particular geographic areas, this could adversely affect our ability to compete in these markets. It may be more difficult for us, in the future, to have our technologies adopted as individual industry standards to the extent that entertainment industry participants collaborate on the development of industry standard technologies. Standards-setting organizations are increasingly adopting or establishing technology standards for use in a wide range of consumer entertainment products. As a result, it is more difficult for individual companies to have their technologies adopted wholesale as an informal industry standard. We call this type of standard a “de facto” industry standard, meaning that the industry has widely adopted the technology, although no industry standards-setting organization has explicitly mandated such standard. Increasingly there are multiple companies, including ones that typically compete against one another, involved in the development of new technologies for use in entertainment-oriented products. As a result, these companies often license their collective intellectual property rights as a group, making it more difficult for any single company to have its technologies adopted widely as a de facto industry standard or to have its technologies adopted as an exclusive, explicit industry standard for consumer entertainment products. Even if our technologies are adopted as an explicit industry standard for a particular market, market participants may not widely adopt our technologies. Even when a standards-setting organization mandates our technologies for a particular market, which we call an “explicit” industry standard, our technologies may not be the sole technologies adopted for that market as an explicit industry standard. Accordingly, our operating results depend upon participants in that market choosing to adopt our technologies instead of competitive technologies that also may be acceptable under such standard. For example, the continued growth of our revenue from the broadcast market will depend upon both the continued global adoption of digital television generally and the choice to use our technologies where it is one of several accepted industry standards. If we do not obtain new patents or proprietary technologies as our existing patents expire, our licensing revenue could decline. We hold patents covering much of the technologies that we license to system licensees, and our licensing revenue is tied in large part to the life of those patents. Our right to receive royalties related to our patents terminates with the expiration of the last patent covering the relevant technologies in a particular country. Accordingly, to the extent that we do not replace licensing revenue from technologies covered by expiring patents with licensing revenue based on new patents and proprietary technologies, our revenue could decline. As of September 30, 2011, we had nearly 2,300 individual issued patents and over 2,300 pending patent applications in nearly 90 jurisdictions throughout the world. Our issued patents are scheduled to expire at various times through May 2030. Of these, two patents are scheduled to expire in the remainder of calendar year 2011, 52 patents are scheduled to expire in calendar year 2012, 30 patents are scheduled to expire in calendar year 2013 and 91 patents are scheduled to expire in calendar year 2014. Patents relating to our Dolby Digital technologies, from which we principally derive our licensing revenue, have begun to expire and the remaining patents relating 22 Table of Contents to this technology generally expire between now and 2017. Additional patents relating to our Dolby Digital Plus technologies, an extension of Dolby Digital, expire between 2018 and 2026. In addition, the remaining patents relating to Dolby Digital Live technologies, an extension of Dolby Digital, are scheduled to expire between now and 2021. The markets for our technologies are highly competitive, and if we are unable to compete successfully, our business will suffer. The markets for entertainment industry technologies are highly competitive, and we face competitive threats and pricing pressure in our markets. Competitors for our licensed technologies include: Audyssey Laboratories, DTS, Fraunhofer Institute for Integrated Circuits, Microsoft, Monster Cable Products, Philips, RealNetworks, Sonic Solutions, Sony, SRS Labs, Thomson, and Waves Audio. Competitors for our products include: Barco, Doremi, GDC, IMAX, MasterImage 3D, NEC, Panavision, QSC Audio Products, Qube Cinema, REALD, Sony, Technicolor, USL, and XpanD. Competitors for our services include DTS and Sony. Consumers may perceive the quality of the audio experience produced by some of our competitors’ technologies to be equivalent or superior to the audio experience produced by our technologies. Other companies may become competitors in one or more of these areas in the future. Additionally, some of our current or future competitors may have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, and other resources than we do, or may have more experience or advantages in the markets in which they compete, particularly in the market for online media content. These competitors may also be able to offer integrated system solutions in markets for sound or non-sound entertainment technologies on a royalty-free basis or at a lower price than our technologies, including audio, video, and rights management technologies related to PCs or the Internet, which could make competing technologies that we develop unnecessary. Our business and prospects depend on the strength of our brand, and if we do not maintain and strengthen our brand, our business will be materially harmed. Maintaining and strengthening the Dolby brand is critical to maintaining and expanding our licensing, products, and services business, as well as to our ability to enter new markets for our sound and other technologies. Our continued success depends, in part, on our reputation for providing high quality technologies, products, and services across a wide range of entertainment markets, including the CE, PC, broadcast, and gaming markets. If we fail to promote and maintain the Dolby brand successfully in licensing, products or services, our business and prospects will suffer. Furthermore, we believe that the strength of our brand may affect the likelihood that our technologies are adopted as industry standards in various markets and for various applications. Our ability to maintain and strengthen our brand will depend heavily on our ability to develop innovative technologies for the entertainment industry, to successfully enter into new markets, and to provide high quality products and services in these new markets, which we may not do successfully. Our licensing of industry standard technologies can be subject to restrictions that could adversely affect our business and prospects. When a standards-setting organization mandates our technologies as explicit industry standards, we generally must agree to license such technologies on a fair, reasonable, and non-discriminatory basis, which could limit our control over the use of these technologies. In these situations, we must often limit the royalty rates we charge for these technologies, which could adversely affect our revenue. Furthermore, we may be unable to limit to whom we license such technologies, and may be unable to restrict many terms of the license. We have in the past, and may in the future, be subject to claims that our industry standard technologies may not conform to the requirements of the standards-setting organization. Allegations such as these could be asserted in private actions seeking monetary damages and injunctive relief, or in regulatory actions. Claimants in such cases could seek to restrict or change our licensing practices or our ability to license our technologies in ways that could injure our reputation and otherwise materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, and prospects. 23 Table of Contents We face risks in conducting business in China and other emerging economies. We believe that various trends will increase our exposure to the risks of conducting business in emerging economies. For example, we expect the number of OEMs in emerging economies, such as China, to increase due to the availability of lower manufacturing costs as compared to those of other industrial countries and the continued industry shift by retailers towards lower end DVD and more recently Blu-ray Disc player and television offerings. We have seen OEMs shift product manufacturing to these lower cost manufacturing countries and expect more OEMs to do so in the future. We also believe that our sales of products and services in emerging economies will expand in the future to the extent that the use of digital surround sound technologies increases in these countries, including in movies and broadcast television, and as consumers there become more affluent. We face many risks associated with operating in these emerging economies, in large part due to limited recognition and enforcement of contractual and intellectual property rights. As a result, we may experience difficulties in enforcing our intellectual property rights in these emerging economies, where intellectual property rights are not as respected as they are in the U.S., Japan, and Europe. We believe that it is critical that we strengthen existing relationships and develop new relationships with entertainment industry participants worldwide to increase our ability to enforce our intellectual property and contractual rights without relying solely on the legal systems in the countries in which we operate. If we are unable to develop, maintain, and strengthen these relationships, our revenue from these countries could be adversely affected. We have limited or no patent protection for some of our technologies in particular countries, including China, Taiwan, and India, which could limit our ability to grow our business in these markets. In China and Taiwan we have only limited patent protection, especially with respect to our Dolby Digital technologies. In India, we have no issued patents for Dolby Digital technologies. Consequently, maintaining or growing our licensing revenue will depend on our ability to obtain patent rights in these countries for existing and new technologies, which is uncertain. Furthermore, because of the limitations of the legal systems in many countries, the effectiveness of patents obtained or that may in the future be obtained, if any, is likewise uncertain. Our licensing revenue depends in large part upon semiconductor manufacturers incorporating our technologies into integrated circuits. Our licensing revenue from system licensees depends in large part upon the availability of ICs that implement our technologies. IC manufacturers incorporate our technologies into these ICs, which are then incorporated in consumer entertainment products. We do not manufacture these ICs, but rather depend on IC manufacturers to develop, produce, and then sell them to system licensees. We do not control the IC manufacturers’ decisions whether or not to incorporate our technologies into their ICs, and we do not control their product development or commercialization efforts nor predict their success. As a result, if these IC manufacturers are unable or unwilling, for any reason, to implement our technologies into their ICs, or if, for any reason, they sell fewer ICs incorporating our technologies, our operating results will be adversely affected. Pricing pressures on the system licensees who incorporate our technologies into their products could limit the licensing fees we charge for our technologies, which could adversely affect our revenue. The markets for the consumer entertainment products in which our technologies are incorporated are intensely competitive and price sensitive. We expect to face increased royalty pricing pressure for our technologies as we seek to drive the adoption of our technologies into online content and portable devices, such as tablets and smart phones. Retail prices for consumer entertainment products that include our sound technologies, such as DVD players and home theater systems, have decreased significantly, and we expect prices to decrease for the foreseeable future. In response, OEMs have sought to reduce their product costs, which can result in downward pressure on the licensing fees we charge our customers who incorporate our technologies into the consumer entertainment products that they sell. Furthermore, while we have contractual rights with many of our licensees for cost of living adjustments to our royalty rights, we may not be able to negotiate those terms in 24 Table of Contents our contracts with existing and new licensees. Additionally, downward cost of living adjustments would result in declines in the licensing fees that we charge. A decline in, or the modification or loss of the contractual right to increase, the licensing fees we charge could materially and adversely affect our operating results. We have in the past, and may in the future be, subject to legal claims related to our intellectual property rights, which are costly to defend, could require us to pay damages, and could limit our ability to use particular technologies in the future. Companies in the technology and entertainment industries own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. We have faced such claims in the past and we expect to face similar claims in the future. Any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming, expensive to litigate or settle, and could divert management resources and attention. In the past we have settled claims relating to infringement allegations and agreed to make payments in connection with such settlements. We expect that similar claims will be asserted against us in the future in the ordinary course of our business. An adverse determination in any intellectual property claim could require that we pay damages or stop using technologies found to be in violation of a third party’s rights and could prevent us from offering our products and services to others. In order to avoid these restrictions, we may have to seek a license for the technology, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. Any license could also require us to pay significant royalties, and may significantly increase our operating expenses. As a result, we may be required to develop alternative non-infringing technologies, which could require significant effort and expense. If we cannot license or develop technologies for any aspects of our business found to be infringing, we may be forced to limit our product and service offerings and may be unable to compete effectively. In some instances, we have contractually agreed to provide indemnifications to licensees relating to our intellectual property. Additionally, at times in the past, we have chosen to defend our licensees from third party intellectual property infringement claims even where such defense was not contractually required, and we may choose to take on such defense in the future. Any of these results could harm our brand, our operating results, and our financial condition. We have in the past and may in the future have disputes with our licensees regarding our licensing arrangements. At times, we are engaged in disputes regarding the licensing of our intellectual property rights, including matters related to our royalty rates and other terms of our licensing arrangements. These types of disputes can be asserted by our customers or prospective customers or by other third parties as part of negotiations with us or in private actions seeking monetary damages or injunctive relief, or in regulatory actions. In the past, licensees have threatened to initiate litigation against us regarding our licensing royalty rate practices including our adherence to licensing on fair, reasonable, and non-discriminatory terms and potential antitrust claims. Damages and requests for injunctive relief asserted in claims like these could be material, and could be disruptive to our business. Any disputes with our customers or potential customers or other third parties could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and prospects. We face risks relating to the transition to digital cinema. We face a number of risks relating to the transition to digital cinema, including: • Exhibitors may perceive competing products to be potentially advantageous to our products or they may choose lower priced competing products or competing products with different features, such as support for 4K presentation; • If we encounter delays in the development of our 4K digital cinema solution or if we are unable to provide a solution at a market competitive price, our future prospects in digital cinema may be limited; 25 Table of Contents • At least one of our competitors has a significantly greater installed base of its digital cinema servers than we do which has and likely will continue to limit our share of the digital cinema market, particularly in the U.S. market; • Pricing and other competitive pressures have caused us to implement pricing strategies which have had an adverse effect on our products gross margins; • Delays in updating our server software to comply with the current DCI specifications could result in lost or delayed product sales and the deferral of future products sales due to revenue recognition restrictions; • If cinema owners do purchase our digital cinema products, they may require contractual provisions that would obligate us to comply with the current DCI specifications within a certain period of time; • If Dolby systems are not in compliance with current DCI specifications within that period of time, we may become obligated to the cinema owners, some of whom are existing customers, to replace the non-compliant systems with compliant systems; and • As the industry transition to digital cinema becomes substantially complete, the demand for new digital cinema screens will drop significantly and the industry will enter into a replacement cycle. These and other risks related to digital cinema could limit our future prospects in digital cinema and could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Acquisition activities could result in operating difficulties and other harmful consequences. We have evaluated, and expect to continue to evaluate, a wide array of possible strategic transactions, including acquisitions. We consider these types of transactions in connection with our efforts to expand our business beyond sound technologies. Although we cannot predict whether or not we will complete any such acquisition or other transactions in the future, any of these transactions could be material in relation to our market capitalization, financial condition or results of operations. The process of integrating an acquired company, business, or technology may create unforeseen difficulties and expenditures. Foreign acquisitions involve unique risks in addition to those mentioned above, including those related to integration of operations across different geographies, cultures, and languages, currency risks, and risks associated with the particular economic, political, and regulatory environment in specific countries. Also, the anticipated benefit of our acquisitions may not materialize. We face various risks in integrating acquired businesses, including: • Diversion of management time and focus from operating our business to acquisition integration challenges; • Cultural and logistical challenges associated with integrating employees from acquired businesses into our organization; • Retaining employees from businesses we acquire; • The need to implement or improve internal controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public company at businesses that prior to the acquisition may have lacked effective controls, procedures and policies; • Possible write-offs or impairment charges resulting from acquisitions; • Unanticipated or unknown liabilities relating to acquired businesses; and • The need to integrate acquired businesses’ accounting, management information, manufacturing, human resources, and other administrative systems to permit effective management. 26 Table of Contents Furthermore, acquisitions may have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations, including a potential adverse impact on our gross margins. Future acquisitions could result in the need to obtain financing on unfavorable terms, including dilutive equity issuances. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, amortization expenses, and write-offs of goodwill, any of which could harm our operating results or financial condition. Future acquisitions may also require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Changes to our enterprise resource planning and other key software applications could cause unexpected problems to occur and disrupt the management of our business. We recently replaced our enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system as well as other key software applications used in our global operations. Our ERP system and related applications are integral to our ability to accurately and efficiently maintain our books and records, manage royalty and product revenue streams, record our transactions, provide critical information to our management, and prepare our financial statements. Any unexpected difficulties resulting from these replacement efforts, could adversely affect our operating results and the accuracy and timely reporting of those results. We are dependent upon our relationships within the entertainment industry, and the failure to maintain such relationships could materially harm our business. If we fail to maintain and expand our relationships with a broad range of entertainment industry participants, including film studios, broadcasters, video game designers, music producers, mobile media content producers, and OEMs, our business and prospects could be materially harmed. Relationships have historically played an important role in the entertainment markets that we serve. For example, sales of our products and services are particularly dependent upon our relationships with the major film studios and broadcasters, and licensing of our technologies is particularly dependent upon our relationships with system licensees, software vendors, and IC manufacturers. If we fail to maintain and strengthen these relationships, these entertainment industry participants may be less likely to purchase and use our technologies, products, and services, or create content incorporating our technologies, which could materially harm our business and prospects. Additionally, if major entertainment industry participants form strategic relationships that exclude us, whether in licensing, products, or services, our business and prospects could be materially adversely affected. We face diverse risks in our international business, which could adversely affect our operating results. We are dependent on international sales for a substantial amount of our total revenue. For fiscal 2009, 2010, and 2011, revenue from outside the U.S. was 65%, 66%, and 68% of our total revenue, respectively. We expect that international and export sales will continue to represent a substantial portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. This future revenue will depend to a large extent on the continued use and expansion of our technologies in entertainment industries worldwide. Due to our reliance on sales to customers outside the U.S., we are subject to the risks of conducting business internationally, including: • Our ability to enforce our contractual and intellectual property rights, especially in those foreign countries that do not recognize and enforce intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the U.S., Japan, and European countries, which increases the risk of unauthorized and uncompensated use of our technologies; • U.S. and foreign government trade restrictions, including those which may impose restrictions on importation of programming, technology, or components to or from the U.S. States; 27 Table of Contents • Our ability to comply with applicable international laws and regulations governing our business and operations, including local consumer and safety laws, as well as license requirements; • Foreign government taxes, regulations, and permit requirements, including foreign taxes that we may not be able to offset against taxes imposed upon us in the U.S. States, and other laws limiting our ability to repatriate funds to the U.S. States; • Burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws; • Changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; • Difficulty in establishing, staffing, and managing foreign operations; • Adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates, including risks related to any interest rate swap or other hedging activities we undertake; • Political or social instability, natural disasters, war or events of terrorism; and • The strength of international economies. In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by U.S. regulations applicable to us such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and U.S. export controls. Although we implement policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and U.S. export controls, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, distributors, dealers, and agents will not take actions in violation of our policies or these regulations. Any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have an adverse effect on our business. We face risks associated with complying with international employment laws. A significant number of our employees are located outside the U.S. This means we have exposure to changes in foreign laws governing our relationships with our employees, which could have a direct impact on our operating costs. Expansion into international markets has required, and will require, significant management attention and resources. We incur additional legal compliance costs associated with our international operations and could become subject to legal penalties in foreign countries if we do not comply with local employment laws and regulations, which may be substantially different from those in the U.S. Revisions to patent laws and regulations in the U.S. and abroad may adversely impact our ability to obtain, license, and enforce our patent rights. Our licensing business depends in part on the uniform and consistent treatment of patent rights in the U.S. and abroad. Changes to the patent laws and regulations in the U.S. and abroad may limit our ability to obtain, license, and enforce our rights. Additionally, court and administrative rulings may interpret existing patent laws and regulations in ways that adversely affect our ability to obtain, license, and enforce our patents. For example, recent rulings by the U.S. Supreme Court concerning injunctions may make it more difficult, under some circumstances, for us to obtain injunctive relief against a party that has been found to infringe one or more of our patents, and rulings regarding patent challenges by licensees could potentially make it easier for our licensees to challenge our patents even though they have already agreed to take a license. Our stock repurchase program may be suspended or terminated at any time, which may result in a decrease in our stock price. Our stock repurchase program, whereby we may continue to repurchase shares of our Class A common stock, may reduce the public float of shares available for trading on a daily basis. Such purchases may be limited, suspended, or terminated at any time without prior notice. There can be no assurance that we will buy additional shares of our Class A common stock under our stock repurchase program or that any future repurchases will have a positive impact on our stock price or earnings per share. Important factors that could cause us to discontinue or 28 Table of Contents decrease our share repurchases include, among others, unfavorable market conditions, the market price of our Class A common stock, the nature of other investment or strategic opportunities presented to us from time to time, the rate of dilution of our equity compensation programs, our ability to make appropriate, timely, and beneficial decisions as to when, how, and whether to purchase shares under the stock repurchase program, and the availability of funds necessary to continue purchasing stock. If we curtail our repurchase program, our stock price may be negatively affected. Fluctuations in our operating results and other factors may contribute to the volatility of the market price of our stock. A number of factors, many of which are outside our control, may cause or contribute to significant fluctuations in our quarterly and annual revenue and operating results. These fluctuations may make financial planning and forecasting more difficult. In addition, these fluctuations may result in unanticipated decreases in our available cash, which could negatively impact our business and prospects, and could increase the volatility of our stock price. Factors that may cause or contribute to fluctuations in our operating results and revenue or the volatility of the market price of our stock include those risks set forth in this section as well as the following: • Fluctuations in demand for our products and for the digital entertainment products of our licensees; • Adverse developments in general economic conditions; • The amount and timing of our operating costs, capital expenditures, and related charges, including those related to the expansion or consolidation of our business, operations, and infrastructure; • Changes in business cycles that affect the markets in which we sell our products and services or the markets for consumer entertainment products incorporating our technologies; • Fluctuations in the timing of royalty reports we receive from our licensees, including late or sporadic reports; • Variations in the time-to-market of our technologies in the entertainment industry markets in which we operate; • Corrections to licensees’ reports received in periods subsequent to those in which the original revenue was reported; • The announcement, introduction, or enhancement of technologies, products, and services, by us, our licensees, and our competitors, and market acceptance of these new or enhanced technologies, products, and services; • Rapid, wholesale changes in technology in the entertainment industries in which we compete; • Events and conditions in the cinema industry, including box office receipts that affect the number of theaters constructed, the number of movies produced and exhibited, the general popularity of motion pictures, and strikes by cinema industry participants; • The financial resources of cinema exhibitors available to buy our products or to equip their theaters to accommodate upgraded or new technologies; • Consolidation by participants in the markets in which we compete, which could result among other things in pricing pressure; • Seasonal electronics product shipment patterns by our system licensees, particularly in the first quarter, which generally result in revenue in the second quarter; • The impact of, and our ability to react to, interruptions in the entertainment distribution process, including as a result of work stoppages at our facilities, our customers’ facilities, and other points throughout the entertainment distribution process; 29 Table of Contents • Adverse outcomes of litigation or governmental proceedings, including any foreign, federal, state, or local tax assessments or audits; • Repurchases we make of our common stock; • Costs of litigation and intellectual property protection; • Exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and other currencies; • Variations between our operating results and published analysts’ expectations; and • Announcements by our competitors or significant customers. One or more of the foregoing or other factors may cause our operating expenses to be disproportionately higher or lower or may cause our revenue and operating results to fluctuate significantly in any particular quarterly or annual period. Consequently, results from prior periods are not necessarily indicative of the results of future periods. Changes in tax rates and exposure for additional income tax liabilities or adverse outcomes resulting from examinations of our tax returns could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, the geographic mix of our revenue, or by changes in tax laws or their interpretation could all favorably or unfavorably affect our future effective tax rates. We file income tax returns in the U.S. and in several U.S. state and foreign jurisdictions, and must use judgment in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. For example, the following could adversely affect our income taxes: • Earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher tax rates; • Changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; • Expiration of or lapses in the R&D tax credit laws; • Fluctuations in tax exempt interest income; • Transfer pricing adjustments; • Tax effects of nondeductible compensation; • Tax costs related to intercompany realignments; • Changes in accounting principles; or • Changes in tax laws and regulations, including possible U.S. changes to the taxation of earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, the deductibility of expenses attributable to foreign income, or the foreign tax credit rules. We are subject to the periodic examination of our income tax returns by tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance, however, that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Additionally, due to the evolving nature of tax rules combined with the large number of jurisdictions in which we operate, it is possible that our estimates of our tax liability and the realizability of our deferred tax assets could change in the future, which may result in additional tax liabilities and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. 30 Table of Contents If securities or industry analysts publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business or if our operating results do not meet or exceed their projections, our stock price could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who cover us or our industry downgrade our stock or the stock of other companies in our industry, or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business or industry, or if our operating results do not meet or exceed their projections, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which might cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. Any inability to protect our intellectual property rights could reduce the value of our products, services, and brand. Our business is dependent upon protecting our patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights, and other intellectual property rights. Licensing revenue represented 83%, 77%, and 83% of our total revenue in the fiscal years 2009, 2010, and 2011, respectively. Effective intellectual property rights protection, however, may not be available under the laws of every country in which our products and services and those of our licensees are distributed. Also, the efforts we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective. Any significant impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business or our ability to compete. In addition, protecting our intellectual property rights is costly and time consuming. We have taken steps in the past to enforce our intellectual property rights and expect do so in the future. However, it may not be practicable or cost effective for us to enforce our intellectual property rights fully, particularly in some countries or where the initiation of a claim might harm our business relationships. If we are unable to successfully identify and stop unauthorized use of our intellectual property, we could experience increased operational and enforcement costs, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We generally seek patent protection for our innovations. However, it is possible that some of these innovations may not be protectable, or we may choose not to protect particular innovations that later turn out to be important, due to the high costs of obtaining patent protection. Even where we do have patent protection, the scope of such protection may be insufficient to prevent third parties from designing around our particular patent claims. Furthermore, there is always the possibility that an issued patent may later be found to be invalid or unenforceable. We also seek to maintain select intellectual property as trade secrets. Third parties or our employees could intentionally or accidentally compromise the intellectual property that we maintain as trade secrets, which would cause us to lose the competitive advantage resulting from them. Our customers who are also our current or potential competitors may choose to use their own or competing technologies rather than ours. We face competitive risks in situations where our customers are also current or potential competitors. For example, Sony and Microsoft are significant licensee customers and Sony is a significant purchaser of our broadcast products and services, but Sony and Microsoft are also competitors with respect to some of our consumer, broadcast, and cinema technologies. To the extent that our customers choose to use competing technologies they have developed or in which they have an interest, rather than use our technologies, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. We face competition from other audio formats. We believe that the success we have had licensing our surround sound technologies to system licensees is due, in part, to the strength of our brand and the perception that our technologies provide a high quality solution for surround sound. However, both free and proprietary sound technologies are becoming increasingly prevalent, and we expect competitors to continue to enter this field with other solutions. Furthermore, to the extent that customers perceive our competitors’ solutions to provide the same advantages as our technologies at a lower or 31 Table of Contents comparable price, there is a risk that these customers may treat sound encoding technologies such as ours as commodities, resulting in loss of status of our technologies, decline in their use, and significant pricing pressure. The commoditization of our audio technologies, as opposed to treatment as a premium solution, could adversely affect our business, operating results, and prospects. The loss of or delay in operations of one or more of our key suppliers could materially delay or stop the production of our products and impair our ability to generate revenue. Our reliance on outside suppliers for some of the key materials and components we use in manufacturing our products involves risks, including limited control over the price, timely delivery, and quality of such components. We have no formal agreements in place with our suppliers for the continued supply of materials and components. Although we have identified alternate suppliers for most of our key materials and components, any required changes in our suppliers could cause material delays in our production operations and increase our production costs. In addition, at times our suppliers have not been, and in the future may not be, able to meet our production demands as to volume, quality, or timeliness. Moreover, we rely on sole source suppliers for some of the components that we use to manufacture our products, including specific charged coupled devices, light emitting diodes, and digital signal processors. These sole source suppliers may become unable or unwilling to deliver these components to us at an acceptable cost or at all, which could force us to redesign those specific products. Our inability to obtain timely delivery of key components of acceptable quality, any significant increases in the prices of components, or the redesign of our products could result in material production delays, increased costs, and reductions in shipments of our products, any of which could increase our operating costs, harm our customer relationships, or materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Revenue from our products may suffer if our production processes encounter problems or if we are not able to match our production capacity to fluctuating levels of demand. Our products are highly complex and production difficulties or inefficiencies can interrupt production, resulting in our inability to deliver products on time in a cost effective manner, which could harm our competitive position. We have a single production facility and increasingly use contract manufacturers for a significant portion of our production capacity. Our reliance on contract manufacturers for the manufacture of our products involves risks, including limited control over timely delivery and quality of such products. For example, during the first quarter of fiscal 2012, severe flooding in Thailand impacted the facility of a contract manufacturer to which we were transferring manufacturing operations. We are now planning to transfer manufacturing operations to a different facility and we also are undertaking a contingency plan to increase our available supply of product. However, we continue to monitor the Thailand situation and conditions could worsen. If production of our products is interrupted, we may not be able to manufacture products on a timely basis. A shortage of manufacturing capacity for our products could adversely affect our operating results and damage our customer relationships. We are unable to quickly adapt our manufacturing capacity to rapidly changing market conditions and a contract manufacturer may encounter similar difficulties. Likewise, we may be unable to quickly respond to fluctuations in customer demand or contract manufacturer interruptions. At times we underutilize our manufacturing facilities as a result of reduced demand for some of our products. Any inability to effectively respond to fluctuations in customer demand for our products or contract manufacturer interruptions may adversely affect our gross margins. Our products, from time to time, experience quality problems that can result in decreased sales and higher operating expenses. Our products are complex and sometimes contain undetected software or hardware errors, particularly when first introduced or when new versions are released. In addition, to the extent that we engage contract manufacturers, we do not have as much control over manufacturing which could result in quality problems. 32 Table of Contents Furthermore, our products are sometimes combined with or incorporated into products from other vendors, sometimes making it difficult to identify the source of a problem. These errors could result in a loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products or cause delays in delivering them and meeting customer demands, any of which could reduce our revenue and raise significant customer relations issues. In addition, if our products contain errors we could be required to replace or reengineer them, which would increase our costs. Moreover, if any such errors cause unintended consequences, we could incur substantial costs in defending and settling product liability claims. Although we generally attempt to contractually limit liability for defective products to the cost of repairing or replacing these products, if these contract provisions are not enforced, or are unenforceable for any reason, or if liabilities arise that are not effectively limited, we could incur substantial costs in defending and settling product liability claims. Licensee products that incorporate our technologies, from time to time, experience quality problems that could damage our brand, decrease revenue, and increase operating expenses. Newly introduced and new versions of licensee products that incorporate our technologies are complex and may contain undetected software or hardware errors. In addition, the combination or incorporation of these newly introduced products with products from other companies can make it difficult to identify the source of a problem. Any negative publicity or negative impact relating to these product problems could adversely affect the perception of our brand. In addition, these errors could result in loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of those products or Dolby technologies, or cause delays in delivering them and meeting customer demands, any of which could reduce our revenue and raise significant customer relations issues. Although we generally attempt to contractually limit our liability for our licensees’ defective products, we may elect to help reengineer those products, which could adversely affect our operating results. A loss of one or more of our key customers or licensees in any of our markets could adversely affect our operating results. From time to time, one or a small number of our customers or licensees may represent a significant percentage of our products, services, or licensing revenue. For example, revenue from our largest customer represented approximately 13% of total revenue for fiscal 2011. Although we have agreements with many of these customers, these agreements typically do not require any minimum purchases or minimum royalty fees and do not prohibit customers from purchasing products and services from competitors. A decision by any of our major customers or licensees not to use our technologies, or their failure or inability to pay amounts owed to us in a timely manner, or at all, whether due to strategic redirections or adverse changes in their businesses or for other reasons, could have a significant adverse effect on our operating results. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations that could impose substantial costs upon us and may adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Some of our operations use substances regulated under various federal, state, local, and international laws governing the environment, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management, disposal, and labeling of hazardous substances and wastes, and the cleanup of contaminated sites. We could incur costs, fines, and civil or criminal sanctions, third party property damage or personal injury claims, or could be required to incur substantial investigation or remediation costs, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws. Liability under environmental laws can be joint and several and without regard to comparative fault. The ultimate costs under environmental laws and the timing of these costs are difficult to predict. New environmental laws and regulations could impact our operating results. We expect that new environmental laws and regulations, introduced on an ongoing basis, will have the potential to affect our manufacturing and licensing operations. Although we cannot predict the ultimate impact of 33 Table of Contents any such new laws and regulations, they will likely result in additional costs or decreased revenue, and could require that we redesign or change how we manufacture our products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We could incur substantial costs due to regulations regarding the composition of our products, which may adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. We face increasing complexity in our product design as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the materials composition of our products. For example, we redesigned our products so we could continue to offer them for sale within the European Union, when restrictions on lead and other hazardous substances that apply to specified electronic products put on the market in the European Union became effective in 2006. Similar requirements related to marking of electronic products became effective in China in 2007. For some products, substituting particular components containing regulated hazardous substances is more difficult or costly, and additional redesign efforts could result in production delays. Selected electronic products that we maintain in inventory may be rendered obsolete if not in compliance with the new environmental laws, which could negatively impact our ability to generate revenue from those products. Continued global credit market weakness could negatively impact the value and liquidity of our investment portfolio. We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities, including money market funds, U.S. treasury and agency securities, municipal debt securities, corporate bonds, and commercial paper. Although we follow an established investment policy and seek to minimize the credit risk associated with investments, these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate risks. Any downgrades, losses, failed auctions or other significant deterioration in the fair value of our cash, cash equivalents or investments could negatively impact our investments or our ability to meet our investment objectives. Such negative impact, should it arise, could require an impairment charge, which would adversely impact our financial results. We face risks associated with international trade and currency exchange. We maintain sales, marketing, and business operations in foreign countries. Consequently, we are exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates associated with the local currencies of our foreign business operations. While we derive nearly all of our revenue from transactions denominated in U.S. dollars, nearly all of our costs from our foreign operations are denominated in the currency of that foreign location. Consequently, exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and other currencies could have a material impact on our profitability. We rely on distributors that we do not control. We rely significantly on a global network of independent, regional distributors to market and distribute our cinema and broadcast products. Our distributor arrangements are non-exclusive and our distributors are not obligated to buy our products and can represent competing products. The loss of a major distributor or the inability or unwillingness of our distributors to dedicate the resources necessary to promote our portfolio of products could adversely affect our revenue. For example, the recent flooding in Thailand is expected to adversely affect product sales by our regional distributor. Furthermore, our distributors could retain product channel inventory levels that exceed future anticipated sales, which could adversely affect future sales to those distributors. In addition, failures of our distributors to adhere to our policies or other ethical practices could adversely affect us. For example, while we have implemented policies designed to promote compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, export controls, and local laws, we do not have direct control over the business and risk management policies adopted by our distributors, and they could act contrary to our policies. 34 Table of Contents For the foreseeable future, Ray Dolby or his affiliates will be able to control the selection of all members of our board of directors, as well as virtually every other matter that requires stockholder approval, which will severely limit the ability of other stockholders to influence corporate matters. At September 30, 2011, Ray Dolby and his affiliates owned 100 shares of our Class A common stock and 57,409,000 shares of our Class B common stock. As of September 30, 2011, Ray Dolby and his affiliates, including his family members, had voting power of approximately 99.7% of our outstanding Class B common stock, which in the aggregate represented approximately 91.5% of the combined voting power of our outstanding Class A and Class B common stock. Under our certificate of incorporation, holders of Class B common stock are entitled to ten votes per share while holders of Class A common stock are entitled to one vote per share. Generally, shares of Class B common stock automatically convert into shares of Class A common stock upon transfer of such Class B common stock, other than transfers to certain specified persons and entities, including the spouse and descendants of Ray Dolby and the spouses and domestic partners of such descendants. Because of this dual class structure, Ray Dolby, his affiliates, and his family members and descendants will, for the foreseeable future, have significant influence over our management and affairs, and will be able to control virtually all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions such as mergers or other sales of our company or assets, even if they come to own considerably less than 50% of the total number of outstanding shares of our Class A and Class B common stock. Ray Dolby, his affiliates, his family members, and descendants will maintain this control even if in the future they come to own considerably less than 50% of the total number of outstanding shares of our Class A and Class B common stock. Moreover, these persons may take actions in their own interests that our stockholders do not view as beneficial. Absent a transfer of Class B common stock that would trigger an automatic conversion as described above, there is no threshold or time deadline at which the shares of Class B common stock will automatically convert into shares of Class A common stock. Assuming conversion of all shares of Class B common stock held by persons not affiliated with Ray Dolby into shares of Class A common stock, so long as Ray Dolby and his affiliates, his family members, and descendants continue to hold shares of Class B common stock representing approximately 10% or more of the total number of outstanding shares of our Class A and Class B common stock, they will hold a majority of the combined voting power of the Class A and Class B common stock. Future sales of shares by insiders could cause our stock price to decline. If our founder, officers, directors or employees sell, or indicate an intention to sell, substantial amounts of our Class A common stock in the public market, including shares of Class A common stock issuable upon conversion of shares of Class B common stock, the trading price of our Class A common stock could decline. As previously announced, Ray Dolby as Trustee of the Ray Dolby Trust under the Dolby Family Trust Instrument dated May 7, 1999 adopted a Rule 10b5-1 trading plan in the second quarter of fiscal 2011 to sell a total of up to 3 million shares of the Company’s Class A common stock (or approximately 5.1% of Ray Dolby’s direct and indirect holdings at the time) in compliance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”). Sales under the trading plan commenced in May 2011, are based on pre-established stock price thresholds, and are subject to daily volume limits. The trading plan will expire once all of the shares have been sold or on May 31, 2012, whichever is earlier. We cannot predict the effect the trading plan sales may have on the future trading prices of our Class A common stock. As of September 30, 2011, we had a total of 109,420,100 shares of Class A and Class B common stock outstanding. Of these shares, 31,625,000 shares of Class A common stock were sold in our initial public offering by us and the selling stockholders, and an additional 8,000,000 shares of Class A common stock were sold in a secondary offering in May 2007 by our principal stockholder. As of September 30, 2011, our directors and executive officers beneficially held 57,419,000 shares of Class B common stock, 86,814 shares of Class A common stock, vested options to purchase 30,000 shares of Class B common stock and vested options to purchase 525,443 shares of Class A common stock. We expect that any sale of our Class A common stock by our directors and executive officers would be subject to compliance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act. 35 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 