ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below are investment risks that we believe are material to our investors. Risks Related to an Investment in Cole Credit Property Trust II, Inc. We have a limited operating history and limited established financing sources, and the prior performance of real estate investment programs sponsored by affiliates of our advisor may not be an indication of our future results. We have a limited operating history and stockholders should not rely upon the past performance of other real estate investment programs sponsored by affiliates of our advisor to predict our future results. We were incorporated in September 2004. As of December 31, 2005, we had raised approximately $25.3 million of net offering proceeds, of which we had used approximately $19.4 million to purchase 14 properties with an aggregate purchase price of approximately $91.8 million. Although Mr. Cole and other members of our advisor’s management have significant experience in the acquisition, finance, management and development of commercial real estate, this is the first publicly offered REIT sponsored by Mr. Cole or his affiliates. Accordingly, the prior performance of real estate investment programs sponsored by affiliates of Mr. Cole and our advisor may not be indicative of our future results. Presently, both we and our advisor have limited resources. If our capital resources, or those of our advisor, are insufficient to support our operations, we will not be successful. Stockholders should consider our prospects in light of the risks, uncertainties and difficulties frequently encountered by companies that are, like us, in their early stage of development. To be successful in this market, we must, among other things: • identify and acquire investments that further our investment strategies; • increase awareness of the Cole Credit Property Trust II, Inc. name within the investment products market; • expand and maintain our network of licensed securities brokers and other agents; • attract, integrate, motivate and retain qualified personnel to manage our day-to-day operations; • respond to competition for our targeted real estate properties and other investments as well as for potential investors; and • continue to build and expand our operations structure to support our business. We cannot guarantee that we will succeed in achieving these goals, and our failure to do so could cause stockholders to lose all or a portion of their investment. Because we are conducting a blind pool offering, an investor will not have the opportunity to evaluate all of our investments before we make them, which makes an investment in us more speculative. We have acquired only a limited number of properties. We have not identified any additional properties or investments that we may make. Additionally, we do not provide stockholders with information to evaluate our investments prior to our acquisition of properties. We seek to invest substantially all of the offering proceeds available for investment, after the payment of fees and expenses, in the acquisition of freestanding, single-tenant commercial properties net leased to investment grade or other creditworthy tenants. We may also, in the discretion of our advisor, invest in other types of real estate or in entities that invest in real estate. In addition, our advisor may make or invest in mortgage loans or participations therein on our behalf if our board of directors determines, due to the state of the real estate market or in order to diversify our investment portfolio or otherwise, that such investments are advantageous to us. We have established policies relating to the creditworthiness of tenants of our properties, but our board of directors will have wide discretion in implementing these policies, and you do not have the opportunity to evaluate potential tenants. 13 Table of Contents There is no public trading market for our shares, and there may never be one; therefore, it will be difficult for an investor to sell their shares. There is currently no public market for our shares, and there may never be one. An investor may not sell their shares unless the buyer meets applicable suitability and minimum purchase standards. Our charter also prohibits the ownership of more than 9.8% of our stock, unless exempted by our board of directors, which may inhibit large investors from desiring to purchase an investor’s shares. Moreover, our share redemption program includes numerous restrictions that would limit a stockholders ability to sell their shares to us. Our board of directors could choose to amend, suspend or terminate our share redemption program upon 30 days’ notice. Therefore, it may be difficult for an investor to sell its shares promptly or at all. If an investor is able to sell its shares, it likely will have to sell them at a substantial discount to the price it paid for the shares. It also is likely that an investor’s shares would not be accepted as the primary collateral for a loan. An investor should purchase the shares only as a long-term investment because of the illiquid nature of the shares. If we, through Cole Advisors, are unable to find suitable investments, then we may not be able to achieve our investment objectives or pay distributions. Our ability to achieve our investment objectives and to pay distributions is dependent upon the performance of Cole Advisors, our advisor, in acquiring our investments, selecting tenants for our properties and securing independent financing arrangements. We currently own a limited number of properties and have limited operations and independent financing. An investor will be able to evaluate the terms of our current investments prior to making an investment, but no opportunity to evaluate the terms of transactions or other economic or financial data concerning any of our future investments. An investor must rely almost entirely on the management ability of Cole Advisors and the oversight of our board of directors. We cannot be sure that Cole Advisors will be successful in obtaining suitable investments on financially attractive terms or that, if it makes investments on our behalf, our objectives will be achieved. If we, through Cole Advisors, are unable to find suitable investments, we will hold the proceeds of the Offering in an interest-bearing account, invest the proceeds in short-term, investment-grade investments. In such an event, our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders would be adversely affected. We may suffer from delays in locating suitable investments, which could adversely affect our ability to make distributions and the value of a stockholders investment. We could suffer from delays in locating suitable investments, particularly as a result of our reliance on our advisor at times when management of our advisor is simultaneously seeking to locate suitable investments for other affiliated programs. Additionally, as a public company, we are subject to the ongoing reporting requirements under the Exchange Act. Pursuant to the Exchange Act, we may be required to file with the SEC financial statements of properties we acquire or, in certain cases, financial statements of the tenants of the acquired properties. To the extent any required financial statements are not available or cannot be obtained, we will not be able to acquire the property. As a result, we may not be able to acquire certain properties that otherwise would be a suitable investment. We could suffer delays in our property acquisitions due to these reporting requirements. Delays we encounter in the selection, acquisition and, in the event we develop properties, development of income-producing properties likely would adversely affect our ability to make distributions and the value of an investors overall returns. In such event, we may pay all or a substantial portion of our distributions from the proceeds of the Offering or from borrowings in anticipation of future cash flow, which may constitute a return of a stockholders capital. Distributions from the proceeds of the Offering or from borrowings also could reduce the amount of capital we ultimately invest in properties. This, in turn, would reduce the value of an investors investment. In particular, where we acquire properties prior to the start of construction or during the early stages of construction, it will typically take several months to complete construction and rent available space. Therefore, an investor could suffer delays in the receipt of cash distributions attributable to those particular properties. 14 Table of Contents If we are unable to raise substantial funds, we will be limited in the number and type of investments we may make and the value of an investor’s investment in us will fluctuate with the performance of the specific properties we acquire. The Offering is being made on a best efforts basis, whereby the brokers participating in the offering are only required to use their best efforts to sell our shares and have no firm commitment or obligation to purchase any of the shares. As a result, the amount of proceeds we raise in the Offering may be substantially less than the amount we would need to achieve a broadly diversified property portfolio. If we are unable to raise substantially more than this amount, we will make fewer investments resulting in less diversification in terms of the number of investments owned, the geographic regions in which our investments are located and the types of investments that we make. In such event, the likelihood of our profitability being affected by the performance of any one of our investments will increase. Additionally, we are not limited in the number or size of our investments or the percentage of net proceeds we may dedicate to a single investment. An investor’s investment in our shares will be subject to greater risk to the extent that we lack a diversified portfolio of investments. In addition, our inability to raise substantial funds would increase our fixed operating expenses as a percentage of gross income, and our financial condition and ability to pay distributions could be adversely affected. If our advisor loses or is unable to obtain key personnel, our ability to implement our investment strategies could be delayed or hindered, which could adversely affect our ability to make distributions and the value of an investor’s investment. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the contributions of certain of our executive officers and other key personnel of our advisor, including Christopher H. Cole, Blair D. Koblenz, Jonathan T. Albro, John M. Pons, Sean D. Leahy, D. Kirk McAllaster, Jr. and Christopher T. Robertson, each of whom would be difficult to replace. Our advisor does not have an employment agreement with any of these key personnel and we cannot guarantee that all, or any particular one of these individuals, will remain affiliated with us and/or our advisor. If any of our key personnel were to cease their affiliation with our advisor, our operating results could suffer. Further, we do not intend to separately maintain key person life insurance on Mr. Cole or any other person. We believe that our future success depends, in large part, upon our advisor’s ability to hire and retain highly skilled managerial, operational and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we cannot assure stockholders that our advisor will be successful in attracting and retaining such skilled personnel. If our advisor loses or is unable to obtain the services of key personnel or does not establish or maintain appropriate strategic relationships, our ability to implement our investment strategies could be delayed or hindered, and the value of an investor’s investment may decline. Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to recover claims against our officers, directors and our advisor are limited, which could reduce an investor’s and our recovery against them if they cause us to incur losses. Maryland law provides that a director has no liability in that capacity if he or she performs his or her duties in good faith, in a manner he or she reasonably believes to be in the corporation’s best interests and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. Our charter, in the case of our directors, officers, employees and agents, and the advisory agreement, in the case of our advisor, require us to indemnify our directors, officers, employees and agents and our advisor and its affiliates for actions taken by them in good faith and without negligence or misconduct. Additionally, our charter limits the liability of our directors and officers for monetary damages to the maximum extent permitted under Maryland law. As a result, we and our stockholders may have more limited rights against our directors, officers, employees and agents, and our advisor and its affiliates, than might otherwise exist under common law, which could reduce our stockholders and our recovery against them. In addition, we may be obligated to fund the defense costs incurred by our directors, officers, 15 Table of Contents employees and agents or our advisor in some cases, which would decrease the cash otherwise available for distribution to our stockholders. Risks Related to Conflicts of Interest Cole Advisors faces conflicts of interest relating to the purchase and leasing of properties, and such conflicts may not be resolved in our favor, which could adversely affect our investment opportunities. Affiliates of our advisor may sponsor other real estate investment programs in the future. We may buy properties at the same time as one or more of the other Cole-sponsored programs managed by officers and key personnel of Cole Advisors. There is a risk that Cole Advisors will choose a property that provides lower returns to us than a property purchased by another Cole-sponsored program. We cannot be sure that officers and key personnel acting on behalf of Cole Advisors and on behalf of managers of other Cole-sponsored programs will act in our best interests when deciding whether to allocate any particular property to us. In addition, we may acquire properties in geographic areas where other Cole-sponsored programs own properties. Also, we may acquire properties from, or sell properties to, other Cole-sponsored programs. If one of the other Cole-sponsored programs attracts a tenant that we are competing for, we could suffer a loss of revenue due to delays in locating another suitable tenant. An investor will not have the opportunity to evaluate the manner in which these conflicts of interest are resolved before or after making its investment. Similar conflicts of interest may apply if our advisor determines to make or purchase mortgage loans or participations in mortgage loans on our behalf, since other Cole-sponsored programs may be competing with us for these investments. Cole Advisors will face conflicts of interest relating to joint ventures, which could result in a disproportionate benefit to the other venture partners at our expense. We may enter into joint ventures with other Cole-sponsored programs for the acquisition, development or improvement of properties. Cole Advisors may have conflicts of interest in determining which Cole-sponsored program should enter into any particular joint venture agreement. The co-venturer may have economic or business interests or goals that are or may become inconsistent with our business interests or goals. In addition, Cole Advisors may face a conflict in structuring the terms of the relationship between our interests and the interest of the affiliated co-venturer and in managing the joint venture. Since Cole Advisors and its affiliates will control both the affiliated co-venturer and, to a certain extent, us, agreements and transactions between the co-venturers with respect to any such joint venture will not have the benefit of arm’s-length negotiation of the type normally conducted between unrelated co-venturers, which may result in the co-venturer receiving benefits greater than the benefits that we receive. In addition, we may assume liabilities related to the joint venture that exceed the percentage of our investment in the joint venture. We may participate in Tenant-in-Common Programs with affiliates of our advisor that will not be the result of arm’s-length negotiations and will result in conflicts of interest. Cole Capital Partners, LLC (“Cole Capital Partners”), an affiliate of our advisor, has developed a program to facilitate the acquisition of real estate properties to be owned in co-tenancy arrangements with persons who are looking to invest proceeds from a sale of real estate to qualify for like-kind exchange treatment under Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code (a “Tenant-in-Common Program”). Tenant-in-Common Programs are structured as the acquisition of real estate owned in co-tenancy arrangements with other investors in the property (“Tenant-in-Common Participants”) who are seeking to defer taxes under Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code. When Cole Capital Partners develops such a program, it generally organizes a new entity (a “Cole Exchange Entity”) to acquire all or part of a property. We may participate in the program by either co-investing in the property with the Cole Exchange Entity or by purchasing a co-tenancy interest from the Cole Exchange Entity, generally at the Cole Exchange Entity’s cost. In that event, as an owner of tenant-in-common interests in properties, we will be subject to the risks inherent in the ownership of co-tenancy interests with unrelated third parties. Our purchase of co-tenancy interests will present conflicts of interest between us and affiliates of our 16 Table of Contents advisor. The business interests of Cole Capital Partners and the Cole Exchange Entity may be adverse to, or to the detriment of, our interests. Further, any agreement that we enter into with a Cole Exchange Entity will not be negotiated in an arm’s-length transaction and, as a result of the affiliation between our advisor, Cole Capital Partners and the Cole Exchange Entity, our advisor may be reluctant to enforce the agreements against such entities. Cole Advisors and its officers and employees and certain of our key personnel face competing demands relating to their time, and this may cause our operating results to suffer. Cole Advisors and its officers and employees and certain of our key personnel and their respective affiliates are key personnel, general partners and sponsors of other real estate programs having investment objectives and legal and financial obligations similar to ours and may have other business interests as well. Because these persons have competing demands on their time and resources, they may have conflicts of interest in allocating their time between our business and these other activities. During times of intense activity in other programs and ventures, they may devote less time and fewer resources to our business than is necessary or appropriate. If this occurs, the return on your investment may suffer. Our officers and some of our directors face conflicts of interest related to the positions they hold with affiliated entities, which could hinder our ability to successfully implement our business strategy and to generate returns to stockholders. Our executive officers and certain of our directors are also officers and directors of our advisor, our property manager, our dealer manager and other affiliated entities. As a result, these individuals owe fiduciary duties to these other entities and their stockholders and limited partners, which fiduciary duties may conflict with the duties that they owe to our stockholders and us. Their loyalties to these other entities could result in actions or inactions that are detrimental to our business, which could harm the implementation of our business strategy and our investment and leasing opportunities. Conflicts with our business and interests are most likely to arise from involvement in activities related to (i) allocation of new investments and management time and services between us and the other entities, (ii) our purchase of properties from, or sale of properties, to affiliated entities, (iii) the timing and terms of the investment in or sale of an asset, (iv) development of our properties by affiliates, (v) investments with affiliates of our advisor, (vi) compensation to our advisor, and (vii) our relationship with our dealer manager and property manager. If we do not successfully implement our business strategy, we may be unable to generate cash needed to make distributions to stockholders and to maintain or increase the value of our assets. Cole Advisors faces conflicts of interest relating to the incentive fee structure under our advisory agreement, which could result in actions that are not in the long-term best interests of our stockholders. Under our advisory agreement, Cole Advisors is entitled to fees that are structured in a manner intended to provide incentives to our advisor to perform in our best interests and in the best interests of our stockholders. However, because our advisor does not maintain a significant equity interest in us and is entitled to receive substantial minimum compensation regardless of performance, our advisor’s interests are not wholly aligned with those of our stockholders. In that regard, our advisor could be motivated to recommend riskier or more speculative investments in order for us to generate the specified levels of performance or sales proceeds that would entitle our advisor to fees. In addition, our advisor’s entitlement to fees upon the sale of our assets and to participate in sale proceeds could result in our advisor recommending sales of our investments at the earliest possible time at which sales of investments would produce the level of return that would entitle the advisor to compensation relating to such sales, even if continued ownership of those investments might be in our best long-term interest. Our advisory agreement will require us to pay a performance-based termination fee to our advisor in the event that we terminate the advisor prior to the listing of our shares for trading on an exchange or, absent such listing, in respect of its participation in net sales proceeds. To avoid paying this fee, our independent directors may decide against terminating the advisory agreement prior to our listing of our shares or disposition of our investments even if, but for the termination fee, termination of the advisory agreement would be in our 17 Table of Contents best interest. In addition, the requirement to pay the fee to the advisor at termination could cause us to make different investment or disposition decisions than we would otherwise make, in order to satisfy our obligation to pay the fee to the terminated advisor. Moreover, our advisor has the right to terminate the advisory agreement upon a change of control and thereby trigger the payment of the performance fee, which could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing the change of control. There is no separate counsel for us and our affiliates, which could result in conflicts of interest. Morris, Manning & Martin, LLP acts as legal counsel to us and also represents our advisor and some of its affiliates. There is a possibility in the future that the interests of the various parties may become adverse and, under the Code of Professional Responsibility of the legal profession, Morris, Manning & Martin, LLP may be precluded from representing any one or all of such parties. If any situation arises in which our interests appear to be in conflict with those of our advisor or its affiliates, additional counsel may be retained by one or more of the parties to assure that their interests are adequately protected. Moreover, should a conflict of interest not be readily apparent, Morris, Manning & Martin, LLP may inadvertently act in derogation of the interest of the parties, which could affect our ability to meet our investment objectives. Risks Related to Our Offering and Our Corporate Structure The limit on the number of shares a person may own may discourage a takeover that could otherwise result in a premium price to our stockholders. Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Unless exempted by our board of directors, no person may own more than 9.8% in value of our outstanding common stock and more than 9.8% in value or number, whichever is more restrictive, of any class of our outstanding stock. This restriction may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us, including an extraordinary transaction (such as a merger, tender offer or sale of all or substantially all of our assets) that might provide a premium price for holders of our common stock. Our charter permits our board of directors to issue stock with terms that may subordinate the rights of common stockholders or discourage a third party from acquiring us in a manner that might result in a premium price to our stockholders. Our charter permits our board of directors to issue up to 100,000,000 shares of stock. In addition, our board of directors, without any action by our stockholders, may amend our charter from time to time to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares or the number of shares of any class or series of stock that we have authority to issue. Our board of directors may classify or reclassify any unissued common stock or preferred stock and establish the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to distributions and other distributions, qualifications and terms or conditions of redemption of any such stock. Thus, our board of directors could authorize the issuance of preferred stock with terms and conditions that could have a priority as to distributions and amounts payable upon liquidation over the rights of the holders of our common stock. Preferred stock could also have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us, including an extraordinary transaction (such as a merger, tender offer or sale of all or substantially all of our assets) that might provide a premium price for holders of our common stock. Maryland law prohibits certain business combinations, which may make it more difficult for us to be acquired. Under Maryland law, “business combinations” between a Maryland corporation and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. These business combinations 18 Table of Contents include a merger, consolidation, share exchange or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities. An interested stockholder is defined as: • any person who beneficially owns 10.0% or more of the voting power of the corporation’s shares; or • an affiliate or associate of the corporation who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10.0% or more of the voting power of the then-outstanding voting stock of the corporation. A person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if the board of directors approved in advance the transaction by which he or she otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. However, in approving a transaction, the board of directors may provide that its approval is subject to compliance, at or after the time of approval, with any terms and conditions determined by the board. After the five-year prohibition, any business combination between the Maryland corporation and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by the board of directors of the corporation and approved by the affirmative vote of at least: • 80.0% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding shares of voting stock of the corporation; and • two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting stock of the corporation other than shares held by the interested stockholder with whom or with whose affiliate the business combination is to be effected or held by an affiliate or associate of the interested stockholder. These super-majority vote requirements do not apply if the corporation’s stockholders receive a minimum price, as defined under Maryland law, for their shares in the form of cash or other consideration in the same form as previously paid by the interested stockholder for its shares. The business combination statute permits various exemptions from its provisions, including business combinations that are exempted by the board of directors prior to the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. Pursuant to the statute, our board of directors has exempted any business combination involving Cole Advisors or any affiliate of Cole Advisors. Consequently, the five-year prohibition and the super-majority vote requirements will not apply to business combinations between us and Cole Advisors or any affiliate of Cole Advisors. As a result, Cole Advisors and any affiliate of Cole Advisors may be able to enter into business combinations with us that may not be in the best interest of our stockholders, without compliance with the super-majority vote requirements and the other provisions of the statute. The business combination statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer. If we are required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we could not continue our business, which may significantly reduce the value of a stockholders investment. We are not registered as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (Investment Company Act), pursuant to an exemption in Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act and certain No-Action Letters from the SEC. Pursuant to this exemption, (1) at least 55% of our assets must consist of real estate fee interests or loans secured exclusively by real estate or both, (2) at least 25% of our assets must consist of loans secured primarily by real estate (this percentage will be reduced by the amount by which the percentage in (1) above is increased); and (3) up to 20% of our assets may consist of miscellaneous investments. We intend to monitor compliance with these requirements on an ongoing basis. If we were obligated to register as an investment company, we would have to comply with a variety of substantive requirements under the Investment Company Act imposing, among other things: • limitations on capital structure; • restrictions on specified investments; • prohibitions on transactions with affiliates; and 19 Table of Contents • compliance with reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy disclosure and other rules and regulations that would significantly change our operations. In order to maintain our exemption from regulation under the Investment Company Act, we must engage primarily in the business of buying real estate, and these investments must be made within a year after the offering ends. If we are unable to invest a significant portion of the proceeds of the Offering in properties within one year of the termination of the Offering, we may avoid being required to register as an investment company by temporarily investing any unused proceeds in government securities with low returns. This would reduce the cash available for distribution to investors and possibly lower a stockholders return. To maintain compliance with the Investment Company Act exemption, we may be unable to sell assets we would otherwise want to sell and may need to sell assets we would otherwise wish to retain. In addition, we may have to acquire additional income or loss generating assets that we might not otherwise have acquired or may have to forgo opportunities to acquire interests in companies that we would otherwise want to acquire and would be important to our investment strategy. If we were required to register as an investment company but failed to do so, we would be prohibited from engaging in our business, and criminal and civil actions could be brought against us. In addition, our contracts would be unenforceable unless a court was to require enforcement, and a court could appoint a receiver to take control of us and liquidate our business. Stockholders are bound by the majority vote on matters on which they are entitled to vote, and therefore, their vote on a particular matter may be superceded by the vote of others. Stockholders may vote on certain matters at any annual or special meeting of stockholders, including the election of directors. However, they are bound by the majority vote on matters requiring approval of a majority of the stockholders even if they do not vote with the majority on any such matter. If stockholders do not agree with the decisions of our board of directors, they only have limited control over changes in our policies and operations and may not be able to change such policies and operations. Our board of directors determines our major policies, including our policies regarding financing, growth, debt capitalization, REIT qualification and distributions. Our board of directors may amend or revise these and other policies without a vote of the stockholders. Under the Maryland General Corporation Law and our charter, our stockholders have a right to vote only on the following: • the election or removal of directors; • any amendment of our charter (including a change in our investment objectives), except that our board of directors may amend our charter without stockholder approval to increase or decrease the aggregate number of our shares, to increase or decrease the number of our shares of any class or series that we have the authority to issue or to classify or reclassify any unissued shares by setting or changing the preferences, conversion or other rights, restrictions, limitations as to distributions, qualifications or terms and conditions of redemption of such shares, provided however, that any such amendment does not adversely affect the rights, preferences and privileges of the stockholders; • our liquidation or dissolution; and • any merger, consolidation or sale or other disposition of substantially all of our assets. All other matters are subject to the discretion of our board of directors. Stockholders are limited in their ability to sell shares pursuant to our share redemption program and may have to hold their shares for an indefinite period of time. Our board of directors could choose to amend the terms of our share redemption program without stockholder approval. Our board is also free to terminate the program upon 30 days’ notice. In addition, the share redemption program includes numerous restrictions that would limit a stockholder’s ability to sell 20 Table of Contents their shares. Generally, a stockholder must have held their shares for at least one year in order to participate in our share redemption program. Subject to funds being available, we will limit the number of shares redeemed pursuant to our share redemption program as follows: (1) during any calendar year, we will not redeem in excess of 3.0% of the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the prior calendar year; and (2) funding for the redemption of shares will be limited to the net proceeds we receive from the sale of shares under our distribution reinvestment plan. These limits might prevent us from accommodating all redemption requests made in any year. These restrictions severely limit a stockholder’s ability to sell their shares should they require liquidity and limit their ability to recover the value they invested or the fair amount value of their shares. We established the offering price on an arbitrary basis; as a result, the actual value of a stockholder’s investment may be substantially less than what a stockholder would pay. Our board of directors has arbitrarily determined the selling price of the shares, and such price bears no relationship to our book or asset values, or to any other established criteria for valuing issued or outstanding shares. Because the offering price is not based upon any independent valuation, the offering price may not be indicative of the proceeds that a stockholder would receive upon liquidation. Because the dealer manager is one of our affiliates, investors do not have the benefit of an independent review of the prospectus or us, as is customarily performed in underwritten offerings. The dealer manager, Cole Capital, is one of our affiliates and did not make an independent review of us or the Offering. Accordingly, stockholders must rely on their own broker-dealer to make an independent review of the terms of the Offering. If the stockholders broker-dealer did not conduct such a review, the stockholders will not have the benefit of an independent review of the terms of the Offering. A stockholder’s interests will be diluted if we issue additional shares. Existing stockholders and potential investors in the Offering do not have preemptive rights to any shares issued by us in the future. Our charter currently has authorized 100,000,000 shares of stock, of which 90,000,000 shares are designated as common stock and 10,000,000 are designated as preferred stock. Subject to any limitations set forth under Maryland law, our board of directors may increase the number of authorized shares of stock, increase or decrease the number of shares of any class or series of stock designated or reclassify any unissued shares without the necessity of obtaining stockholder approval. All of such shares may be issued in the discretion of our board of directors. Therefore, in the event that we (1) sell additional shares in the Offering or sell additional shares in the future, including those issued pursuant to our distribution reinvestment plan, (2) sell securities that are convertible into shares of our common stock, (3) issue shares of our common stock in a private offering of securities to institutional investors, (4) issue shares of our common stock upon the exercise of the options granted to our independent directors, (5) issue shares to our advisor, its successors or assigns, in payment of an outstanding fee obligation as set forth under our advisory agreement, or (6) issue shares of our common stock to sellers of properties acquired by us in connection with an exchange of limited partnership interests of Cole OP II, existing stockholders and investors purchasing shares in the Offering will likely experience dilution of their equity investment in us. In addition, the partnership agreement for Cole OP II contains provisions that would allow, under certain circumstances, other entities, including other Cole-sponsored programs, to merge into or cause the exchange or conversion of their interest for interests of Cole OP II. Because the limited partnership interests of Cole OP II may, at the discretion of our board of directors, be exchanged for shares of our common stock, any merger, exchange or conversion between Cole OP II and another entity ultimately could result in the issuance of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, thereby diluting the percentage ownership interest of other stockholders. Because of these and other reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section, a stockholder should not expect to be able to own a significant percentage of our shares. 21 Table of Contents Payment of fees to Cole Advisors and its affiliates will reduce cash available for investment and distribution. Cole Advisors and its affiliates will perform services for us in connection with the offer and sale of the shares in the Offering, the selection and acquisition of our investments, the management and leasing of our properties, the servicing of our mortgage loans, if any, and the administration of our other investments. They will be paid substantial fees for these services, which will reduce the amount of cash available for investment in properties or distribution to stockholders. We may be unable to pay or maintain cash distributions or increase distributions over time. There are many factors that can affect the availability and timing of cash distributions to stockholders. Distributions are based principally on cash available from our operations. The amount of cash available for distributions is affected by many factors, such as our ability to buy properties as offering proceeds become available, the yields on securities of other real estate programs that we invest in and our operating expense levels, as well as many other variables. Actual cash available for distributions may vary substantially from estimates. With a limited operating history, we cannot assure stockholders that we will be able to pay or maintain distributions or that distributions will increase over time. Nor can we give any assurance that rents from the properties will increase, that the securities we buy will increase in value or provide constant or increased distributions over time, or that future acquisitions of real properties, mortgage loans or our investments in securities will increase our cash available for distributions to stockholders. Our actual results may differ significantly from the assumptions used by our board of directors in establishing the distribution rate to stockholders. If we are unable to obtain funding for future capital needs, cash distributions to our stockholders and the value of our investments could decline. When tenants do not renew their leases or otherwise vacate their space, we will often need to expend substantial funds for tenant improvements to the vacated space in order to attract replacement tenants. In addition, although our current leases with tenants require tenants to pay routine property maintenance costs, we are responsible for any major structural repairs, such as repairs to the foundation, exterior walls and rooftops. We use substantially all of the Offering’s gross proceeds to buy real estate and pay various fees and expenses. We do not intend to reserve any proceeds from the Offering for future capital needs. Accordingly, if we need additional capital in the future to improve or maintain our properties or for any other reason, we must obtain financing from other sources, such as cash flow from operations, borrowings, property sales or future equity offerings. These sources of funding may not be available on attractive terms or at all. If we cannot procure additional funding for capital improvements, our investments may generate lower cash flows or decline in value, or both. General Risks Related to Investments in Real Estate Our operating results would be affected by economic and regulatory changes that have an adverse impact on the real estate market in general, and we cannot assure stockholders that we will be profitable or that we will realize growth in the value of our real estate properties. Our operating results are subject to risks generally incident to the ownership of real estate, including: • changes in general economic or local conditions; • changes in supply of or demand for similar or competing properties in an area; • changes in interest rates and availability of permanent mortgage funds that may render the sale of a property difficult or unattractive; • changes in tax, real estate, environmental and zoning laws; and 22 Table of Contents • periods of high interest rates and tight money supply. These and other reasons may prevent us from being profitable or from realizing growth or maintaining the value of our real estate properties. Most of our properties depend upon a single tenant for all of their rental income, and our financial condition and ability to make distributions may be adversely affected by the bankruptcy or insolvency, a downturn in the business or a lease termination of a single tenant. We expect that most of the properties that we acquire will be occupied by only one tenant and, therefore, the success of those properties are materially dependent on the financial stability of such tenants. Lease payment defaults by tenants could cause us to reduce the amount of distributions we pay. A default of a tenant on its lease payments to us would cause us to lose the revenue from the property and force us to find an alternative source of revenue to meet any mortgage payment and prevent a foreclosure if the property is subject to a mortgage. In the event of a default, we may experience delays in enforcing our rights as landlord and may incur substantial costs in protecting our investment and re-letting the property. If a lease is terminated, there is no assurance that we will be able to lease the property for the rent previously received or sell the property without incurring a loss. A default by a tenant, the failure of a guarantor to fulfill its obligations or other premature termination of a lease or a tenant’s election not to extend a lease upon its expiration could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to pay distributions. If a tenant declares bankruptcy, we may be unable to collect balances due under relevant leases. Any or all of the tenants, or a guarantor of a tenant’s lease obligations, could be subject to a bankruptcy proceeding pursuant to Title 11 of the bankruptcy laws of the United States. Such a bankruptcy filing would bar all efforts by us to collect pre-bankruptcy debts from these entities or their properties, unless we receive an enabling order from the bankruptcy court. Post-bankruptcy debts would be paid currently. If a lease is assumed, all pre-bankruptcy balances owing under it must be paid in full. If a lease is rejected by a tenant in bankruptcy, we would have a general unsecured claim for damages. If a lease is rejected, it is unlikely we would receive any payments from the tenant because our claim is capped at the rent reserved under the lease, without acceleration, for the greater of one year or 15% of the remaining term of the lease, but not greater than three years, plus rent already due but unpaid. This claim could be paid only in the event funds were available, and then only in the same percentage as that realized on other unsecured claims. A tenant or lease guarantor bankruptcy could delay efforts to collect past due balances under the relevant leases, and could ultimately preclude full collection of these sums. Such an event could cause a decrease or cessation of rental payments that would mean a reduction in our cash flow and the amount available for distributions. In the event of a bankruptcy, we cannot assure you that the tenant or its trustee will assume our lease. If a given lease, or guaranty of a lease, is not assumed, our cash flow and the amounts available for distributions to stockholders may be adversely affected. If a sale-leaseback transaction is re-characterized, our financial condition could be adversely affected. We have entered, and may in the future enter, into sale-leaseback transactions, whereby we purchase a property and then lease the same property back to the person from whom we purchased it. In the event of the bankruptcy of a tenant, a transaction structured as a sale-leaseback may be re-characterized as either a financing or a joint venture, either of which outcomes could adversely affect our business. If the sale-leaseback were re-characterized as a financing, we might not be considered the owner of the property, and as a result would have the status of a creditor in relation to the tenant. In that event, we would no longer have the right to sell or encumber our ownership interest in the property. Instead, we would have a claim against the tenant for the amounts owed under the lease, with the claim arguably secured by the property. The tenant/debtor might have the ability to propose a plan restructuring the term, interest rate and amortization schedule of its outstanding balance. If confirmed by the bankruptcy court, 23 Table of Contents we could be bound by the new terms, and prevented from foreclosing our lien on the property. These outcomes could adversely affect our cash flow and the amount available for distributions. If the sale-leaseback were re-characterized as a joint venture, our lessee and we could be treated as co-venturers with regard to the property. As a result, we could be held liable, under some circumstances, for debts incurred by the lessee relating to the property. The imposition of liability on us could adversely affect our cash flow and the amount available for distributions to our stockholders. Properties that have vacancies for a significant period of time could be difficult to sell, which could diminish a stockholder’s return on investment. A property may incur vacancies either by the continued default of tenants under their leases or the expiration of tenant leases. If vacancies continue for a long period of time, we may suffer reduced revenues resulting in less cash distributions to be distributed to stockholders. In addition, because properties’ market values depend principally upon the value of the properties’ leases, the resale value of properties with prolonged vacancies could suffer, which could further reduce returns. We may obtain only limited warranties when we purchase a property. The seller of a property will often sell such property in its “as is” condition on a “where is” basis and “with all faults,” without any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular use or purpose. In addition, purchase agreements may contain only limited warranties, representations and indemnifications that will only survive for a limited period after the closing. The purchase of properties with limited warranties increases the risk that we may lose some or all of our invested capital in the property as well as the loss of rental income from that property. We may be unable to secure funds for future tenant improvements, which could adversely impact our ability to pay cash distributions to our stockholders. When tenants do not renew their leases or otherwise vacate their space, it is usual that, in order to attract replacement tenants, we will be required to expend substantial funds for tenant improvements and tenant refurbishments to the vacated space. We will use substantially all of the gross proceeds of our Offering to buy real estate and pay various fees and expenses. We do not intend to reserve any proceeds from the Offering for future capital needs. Accordingly, if we need additional capital in the future to improve or maintain our properties or for any other reason, we will have to obtain financing from other sources, such as cash flow from operations, borrowings, property sales or future equity offerings. These sources of funding may not be available on attractive terms or at all. If we cannot procure additional funding for capital improvements, our investments may generate lower cash flows or decline in value, or both. Our inability to sell a property when we desire to do so could adversely impact our ability to pay cash distributions to stockholders. The real estate market is affected by many factors, such as general economic conditions, availability of financing, interest rates and other factors, including supply and demand, that are beyond our control. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms set by us, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. We may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold. We cannot assure stockholders that we will have funds available to correct such defects or to make such improvements. In acquiring a property, we may agree to restrictions that prohibit the sale of that property for a period of time or impose other restrictions, such as a limitation on the amount of debt that can be placed or repaid on that property. These provisions would restrict our ability to sell a property. 24 Table of Contents We may not be able to sell our properties at a price equal to, or greater than, the price for which we purchased such property, which may lead to a decrease in the value of our assets. Many of our leases will not contain rental increases over time. Therefore, the value of the property to a potential purchaser may not increase over time, which may restrict our ability to sell a property, or in the event we are able to sell such property, may lead to a sale price less than the price that we paid to purchase the property. We have, and in the future may, acquire or finance properties with lock-out provisions, which may prohibit us from selling a property, or may require us to maintain specified debt levels for a period of years on some properties. Lock-out provisions could materially restrict us from selling or otherwise disposing of or refinancing properties. These provisions would affect our ability to turn our investments into cash and thus affect cash available for distributions to stockholders. Lock-out provisions may prohibit us from reducing the outstanding indebtedness with respect to any properties, refinancing such indebtedness on a non-recourse basis at maturity, or increasing the amount of indebtedness with respect to such properties. Lock-out provisions could impair our ability to take actions during the lock-out period that would otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders and, therefore, may have an adverse impact on the value of the shares relative to the value that would result if the lock-out provisions did not exist. In particular, lock-out provisions could preclude us from participating in major transactions that could result in a disposition of our assets or a change in control even though that disposition or change in control might be in the best interests of our stockholders. Rising expenses could reduce cash flow and funds available for future acquisitions. Any properties that we buy are subject to operating risks common to real estate in general, any or all of which may negatively affect us. If any property is not fully occupied or if rents are being paid in an amount that is insufficient to cover operating expenses, we could be required to expend funds with respect to that property for operating expenses. The properties will be subject to increases in tax rates, utility costs, operating expenses, insurance costs, repairs and maintenance and administrative expenses. While most of our properties are leased on a net-lease basis or require the tenants to pay a portion of such expenses, renewals of leases or future leases may not be negotiated on that basis, in which event we will have to pay those costs. If we are unable to lease properties on a triple-net-lease basis or on a basis requiring the tenants to pay all or some of such expenses, or if tenants fail to pay required tax, utility and other impositions, we could be required to pay those costs, which could adversely affect funds available for future acquisitions or cash available for distributions. Adverse economic conditions will negatively affect our returns and profitability. Recent geopolitical events have exacerbated the general economic slowdown that has affected the nation as a whole and the local economies where our properties may be located. The following market and economic challenges may adversely affect our operating results: • poor economic times may result in tenant defaults under leases; • re-leasing may require concessions or reduced rental rates under the new leases; and • increased insurance premiums, resulting in part from the increased risk of terrorism, may reduce funds available for distribution or, to the extent such increases are passed through to tenants, may lead to tenant defaults. Increased insurance premiums may make it difficult to increase rents to tenants on turnover, which may adversely affect our ability to increase our returns. Our operations could be negatively affected to the extent that an economic downturn is prolonged or becomes more severe. 25 Table of Contents If we suffer losses that are not covered by insurance or that are in excess of insurance coverage, we could lose invested capital and anticipated profits. Each tenant is responsible for insuring its goods and premises and, in some circumstances, may be required to reimburse us for a share of the cost of acquiring comprehensive insurance for the property, including casualty, liability, fire and extended coverage customarily obtained for similar properties in amounts that our advisor determines are sufficient to cover reasonably foreseeable losses. Tenants of single-user properties leased on a triple-net-lease basis typically are required to pay all insurance costs associated with those properties. Material losses may occur in excess of insurance proceeds with respect to any property, as insurance may not be sufficient to fund the losses. However, there are types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as losses due to wars, acts of terrorism, earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, pollution or environmental matters, which are either uninsurable or not economically insurable, or may be insured subject to limitations, such as large deductibles or co-payments. Insurance risks associated with potential terrorism acts could sharply increase the premiums we pay for coverage against property and casualty claims. Additionally, mortgage lenders in some cases have begun to insist that commercial property owners purchase specific coverage against terrorism as a condition for providing mortgage loans. It is uncertain whether such insurance policies will be available, or available at reasonable cost, which could inhibit our ability to finance or refinance our potential properties. In these instances, we may be required to provide other financial support, either through financial assurances or self-insurance, to cover potential losses. We cannot assure stockholders that they will have adequate coverage for such losses. The Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 is designed for a sharing of terrorism losses between insurance companies and the federal government. We cannot be certain how this act will impact us or what additional cost to us, if any, could result. If such an event damaged or destroyed one or more of our properties, we could lose both our invested capital and anticipated profits from such property. Terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred in New York and Washington, D.C. on September 11, 2001, and other acts of violence or war may affect the markets in which we operate, our operations and our profitability. Terrorist attacks may negatively affect our operations and a stockholders investment in our common shares. We cannot assure stockholders that there will not be further terrorist attacks against the United States or United States businesses. Properties we acquire may be located in areas that may be susceptible to attack, which may make these properties more likely to be viewed as terrorist targets than similar, less recognizable properties. These attacks or armed conflicts may directly impact the value of our properties through damage, destruction, loss or increased security costs. We may obtain terrorism insurance as required by our lenders. The terrorism insurance that we obtain may not be sufficient to cover loss for damages to our properties as a result of terrorist attacks. In addition, certain losses resulting from these types of events are uninsurable and others would not be covered by our current terrorism insurance. Additional terrorism insurance may not be available at a reasonable price or at all. The United States’ armed conflict in Iraq and other parts of the world could have a further impact on our tenants. The consequences of any armed conflict are unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events that could have an adverse effect on our business. More generally, any of these events could result in increased volatility in or damage to the United States and worldwide financial markets and economy. They also could result in a continuation of the current economic uncertainty in the United States or abroad. Our revenues will be dependent upon payment of rent by retailers, which may be particularly vulnerable to uncertainty in the local economy. Adverse economic conditions could affect the ability of our tenants to pay rent, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to pay distributions to stockholders. 26 Table of Contents Real estate related taxes may increase, and if these increases are not passed on to tenants, our income will be reduced. Some local real property tax assessors may seek to reassess some of our properties as a result of our acquisition of the property. Generally, from time to time our property taxes increase as property values or assessment rates change or for other reasons deemed relevant by the assessors. An increase in the assessed valuation of a property for real estate tax purposes will result in an increase in the related real estate taxes on that property. Although some tenant leases may permit us to pass through such tax increases to the tenants for payment, there is no assurance that renewal leases or future leases will be negotiated on the same basis. Increases not passed through to tenants will adversely affect our income, cash available for distributions and the amount of distributions to stockholders. Revenue from our properties depends on the amount of our tenants’ retail revenue, making us vulnerable to general economic downturns and other conditions affecting the retail industry. Some of our leases provide for base rent plus contractual base rent increases. Some of our leases may also include a percentage rent clause for additional rent above the base amount based upon a specified percentage of the sales our tenants generate. Under those leases that contain percentage rent clauses, our revenue from tenants may decrease as the sales of our tenants decrease. Generally, retailers face declining revenues during downturns in the economy. As a result, the portion of our revenue that we derive from percentage rent leases could decline upon a general economic downturn. CC&Rs may restrict our ability to operate a property. Some of our properties are contiguous to other parcels of real property, comprising part of the same shopping center development. In connection therewith, there exist significant covenants, conditions and restrictions, known as “CC&Rs,” restricting the operation of such property and any improvements on that property, and related to granting easements on that property. Moreover, the operation and management of the contiguous properties may impact such property. Compliance with CC&Rs may adversely affect our operating costs and reduce the amount of funds that we have available to pay distributions. Our operating results may be negatively affected by potential development and construction delays and resultant increased costs and risks. While we do not currently intend to do so, we may use proceeds from the Offering to acquire and develop properties upon which we will construct improvements. We will be subject to uncertainties associated with re-zoning for development, environmental concerns of governmental entities and/or community groups, and our builder’s ability to build in conformity with plans, specifications, budgeted costs and timetables. If a builder fails to perform, we may resort to legal action to rescind the purchase or the construction contract or to compel performance. A builder’s performance may also be affected or delayed by conditions beyond the builder’s control. Delays in completion of construction could also give tenants the right to terminate preconstruction leases. We may incur additional risks when we make periodic progress payments or other advances to builders before they complete construction. These and other such factors can result in increased costs of a project or loss of our investment. In addition, we will be subject to normal lease-up risks relating to newly constructed projects. We also must rely on rental income and expense projections and estimates of the fair market value of property upon completion of construction when agreeing upon a price at the time we acquire the property. If our projections are inaccurate, we may pay too much for a property, and our return on our investment could suffer. While we do not currently intend to do so, we may invest in unimproved real property. Returns from development of unimproved properties are also subject to risks associated with re-zoning the land for development and environmental concerns of governmental entities and/or community groups. Although we intend to limit any investment in unimproved property to property we intend to develop, a stockholders investment nevertheless is subject to the risks associated with investments in unimproved real property. 27 Table of Contents If we contract with an affiliated development company for newly developed property, we cannot guarantee that our earnest money deposit made to the development company will be fully refunded. While we currently do not have an affiliated development company, our sponsor and/or its affiliates may form a development company. In such an event, we may enter into one or more contracts, either directly or indirectly through joint ventures with affiliates or others, to acquire real property from an affiliate of Cole Advisors that is engaged in construction and development of commercial real properties. Properties acquired from an affiliated development company may be either existing income-producing properties, properties to be developed or properties under development. We anticipate that we will be obligated to pay a substantial earnest money deposit at the time of contracting to acquire such properties. In the case of properties to be developed by an affiliated development company, we anticipate that we will be required to close the purchase of the property upon completion of the development of the property by our affiliate. At the time of contracting and the payment of the earnest money deposit by us, our development company affiliate typically will not have acquired title to any real property. Typically, our development company affiliate will only have a contract to acquire land, a development agreement to develop a building on the land and an agreement with one or more tenants to lease all or part of the property upon its completion. We may enter into such a contract with our development company affiliate even if at the time of contracting we have not yet raised sufficient proceeds in our offering to enable us to close the purchase of such property. However, we will not be required to close a purchase from our development company affiliate, and will be entitled to a refund of our earnest money, in the following circumstances: • our development company affiliate fails to develop the property; • all or a specified portion of the pre-leased tenants fail to take possession under their leases for any reason; or • we are unable to raise sufficient proceeds from our offering to pay the purchase price at closing. The obligation of our development company affiliate to refund our earnest money will be unsecured, and no assurance can be made that we would be able to obtain a refund of such earnest money deposit from it under these circumstances because our development company affiliate may be an entity without substantial assets or operations. However, our development company affiliate’s obligation to refund our earnest money deposit may be guaranteed by Cole Realty, which will enter into contracts to provide property management and leasing services to various Cole-sponsored programs, including us, for substantial monthly fees. As of the time Cole Realty may be required to perform under any guaranty, we cannot assure that Cole Realty will have sufficient assets to refund all of our earnest money deposit in a lump sum payment. If we were forced to collect our earnest money deposit by enforcing the guaranty of Cole Realty, we will likely be required to accept installment payments over time payable out of the revenues of Cole Realty operations. We cannot assure stockholders that we would be able to collect the entire amount of our earnest money deposit under such circumstances. Competition with third parties in acquiring properties and other investments may reduce our profitability and the return on a stockholders investment. We compete with many other entities engaged in real estate investment activities, including individuals, corporations, bank and insurance company investment accounts, other REITs, real estate limited partnerships and other entities engaged in real estate investment activities, many of which have greater resources than we do. Larger REITs may enjoy significant competitive advantages that result from, among other things, a lower cost of capital and enhanced operating efficiencies. In addition, the number of entities and the amount of funds competing for suitable investments may increase. Any such increase would result in increased demand for these assets and therefore increased prices paid for them. If we pay higher prices for properties and other investments, our profitability will be reduced and stockholders may experience a lower return on their investment. 28 Table of Contents Our properties will face competition that may affect tenants’ ability to pay rent and the amount of rent paid to us may affect the cash available for distributions and the amount of distributions. We intend to locate our properties, and our current properties are located, in developed areas. Therefore, there are and will be numerous other retail properties within the market area of each of our properties that will compete with us for tenants. The number of competitive properties could have a material effect on our ability to rent space at our properties and the amount of rents charged. We could be adversely affected if additional competitive properties are built in locations competitive with our properties, causing increased competition for customer traffic and creditworthy tenants. This could result in decreased cash flow from tenants and may require us to make capital improvements to properties that we would not have otherwise made, thus affecting cash available for distributions and the amount available for distributions to stockholders. Delays in acquisitions of properties may have an adverse effect on a stockholder’s investment. There may be a substantial period of time before all of the proceeds of the Offering are actually invested. Delays we encounter in the selection, acquisition and/or development of properties could adversely affect a stockholder’s returns. Where properties are acquired prior to the start of construction or during the early stages of construction, it will typically take several months to complete construction and rent available space. Therefore, stockholders could suffer delays in the payment of cash distributions attributable to those particular properties. Costs of complying with governmental laws and regulations, including those relating to environmental matters, may adversely affect our income and the cash available for any distributions. All real property and the operations conducted on real property are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and human health and safety. These laws and regulations generally govern wastewater discharges, air emissions, the operation and removal of underground and above-ground storage tanks, the use, storage, treatment, transportation and disposal of solid and hazardous materials and the remediation of contamination associated with disposals. Some of these laws and regulations may impose joint and several liability on tenants, owners or operators for the costs to investigate or remediate contaminated properties, regardless of fault or whether the acts causing the contamination were legal. This liability could be substantial. In addition, the presence of hazardous substances, or the failure to properly remediate these substances, may adversely affect our ability to sell, rent or pledge such property as collateral for future borrowings. Some of these laws and regulations have been amended so as to require compliance with new or more stringent standards as of future dates. Compliance with new or more stringent laws or regulations or stricter interpretation of existing laws may require us to incur material expenditures. Future laws, ordinances or regulations may impose material environmental liability. Additionally, our tenants’ operations, the existing condition of land when we buy it, operations in the vicinity of our properties, such as the presence of underground storage tanks, or activities of unrelated third parties may affect our properties. In addition, there are various local, state and federal fire, health, life-safety and similar regulations with which we may be required to comply, and that may subject us to liability in the form of fines or damages for noncompliance. Any material expenditures, fines or damages we must pay will reduce our ability to make distributions and may reduce the value of a stockholder’s investment. State and federal laws in this area are constantly evolving, and we intend to monitor these laws and take commercially reasonable steps to protect ourselves from the impact of these laws, including obtaining environmental assessments of most properties that we acquire; however, we will not obtain an independent third-party environmental assessment for every property we acquire. In addition, we cannot assure you that any such assessment that we do obtain will reveal all environmental liabilities or that a prior owner of a property did not create a material environmental condition not known to us. We cannot predict what other environmental legislation or regulations will be enacted in the future, how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted, or what environmental conditions may be found to exist in 29 Table of Contents the future. We cannot assure stockholders that our business, assets, results of operations, liquidity or financial condition will not be adversely affected by these laws, which may adversely affect cash available for distributions and the amount of distributions to stockholders. If we sell properties by providing financing to purchasers, defaults by the purchasers would adversely affect our cash flows. If we decide to sell any of our properties, we intend to use our best efforts to sell them for cash. However, in some instances we may sell our properties by providing financing to purchasers. When we provide financing to purchasers, we will bear the risk that the purchaser may default, which could negatively impact our cash distributions to stockholders. Even in the absence of a purchaser default, the distribution of the proceeds of sales to our stockholders, or their reinvestment in other assets, will be delayed until the promissory notes or other property we may accept upon the sale are actually paid, sold, refinanced or otherwise disposed of. In some cases, we may receive initial down payments in cash and other property in the year of sale in an amount less than the selling price and subsequent payments will be spread over a number of years. If any purchaser defaults under a financing arrangement with us, it could negatively impact our ability to pay cash distributions to our stockholders. Our recovery of an investment in a mortgage that has defaulted may be limited. There is no guarantee that the mortgage, loan or deed of trust securing an investment will, following a default, permit us to recover the original investment and interest that would have been received absent a default. The security provided by a mortgage, deed of trust or loan is directly related to the difference between the amount owed and the appraised market value of the property. Although we rely on a current real estate appraisal when we make the investment, the value of the property is affected by general fluctuations in the real estate market, rezoning, neighborhood changes, highway relocations and failure by the borrower to maintain the property. Our costs associated with complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act may affect cash available for distributions. Our properties are subject to the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (Disabilities Act). Under the Disabilities Act, all places of public accommodation are required to comply with federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. The Disabilities Act has separate compliance requirements for “public accommodations” and “commercial facilities” that generally requires that buildings and services, including restaurants and retail stores, be made accessible and available to people with disabilities. The Disabilities Act’s requirements could require removal of access barriers and could result in the imposition of injunctive relief, monetary penalties or, in some cases, an award of damages. We will attempt to acquire properties that comply with the Disabilities Act or place the burden on the seller or other third party, such as a tenant, to ensure compliance with the Disabilities Act. However, we cannot assure stockholders that we will be able to acquire properties or allocate responsibilities in this manner. If we cannot, our funds used for Disabilities Act compliance may affect cash available for distributions and the amount of distributions to stockholders. Risks Associated with Debt Financing We may incur mortgage indebtedness and other borrowings, which may increase our business risks. We have acquired, and expect that in most instances will continue to acquire, real properties by using either existing financing or borrowing new funds. In addition, we may incur mortgage debt and pledge all or some of our real properties as security for that debt to obtain funds to acquire additional real properties. We may borrow if we need funds to satisfy the REIT tax qualification requirement that we distribute at least 90.0% of our annual REIT taxable income to our stockholders. We may also borrow if we otherwise deem it necessary or advisable to assure that we maintain our qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. 30 Table of Contents If there is a shortfall between the cash flow from a property and the cash flow needed to service mortgage debt on a property, then the amount available for distributions to stockholders may be reduced. In addition, incurring mortgage debt increases the risk of loss since defaults on indebtedness secured by a property may result in lenders initiating foreclosure actions. In that case, we could lose the property securing the loan that is in default, thus reducing the value of your investment. For tax purposes, a foreclosure of any of our properties would be treated as a sale of the property for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage. If the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage exceeds our tax basis in the property, we would recognize taxable income on foreclosure, but would not receive any cash proceeds. We may give full or partial guarantees to lenders of mortgage debt to the entities that own our properties. When we provide a guaranty on behalf of an entity that owns one of our properties, we will be responsible to the lender for satisfaction of the debt if it is not paid by such entity. If any mortgages contain cross-collateralization or cross-default provisions, a default on a single property could affect multiple properties. If any of our properties are foreclosed upon due to a default, our ability to pay cash distributions to our stockholders will be adversely affected. High mortgage rates may make it difficult for us to finance or refinance properties, which could reduce the number of properties we can acquire and the amount of cash distributions we can make. When we place mortgage debt on properties, we run the risk of being unable to refinance the properties when the loans come due, or of being unable to refinance on favorable terms. If interest rates are higher when the properties are refinanced, we may not be able to finance the properties and our income could be reduced. If any of these events occur, our cash flow would be reduced. This, in turn, would reduce cash available for distribution to you and may hinder our ability to raise more capital by issuing more stock or by borrowing more money. Lenders may require us to enter into restrictive covenants relating to our operations, which could limit our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. When providing financing, a lender could impose restrictions on us that affect our distribution and operating policies and our ability to incur additional debt. Loan documents we enter into may contain covenants that limit our ability to further mortgage the property, discontinue insurance coverage or replace Cole Advisors as our advisor. These or other limitations may adversely affect our flexibility and our ability to achieve our operating plans. Increases in interest rates could increase the amount of our debt payments and adversely affect our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. We expect that we will incur additional indebtedness in the future. Interest we pay reduces cash available for distributions. Additionally, if we incur variable rate debt, increases in interest rates would increase our interest costs, which could reduce our cash flows and our ability to pay distributions to stockholders. In addition, if we need to repay existing debt during periods of rising interest rates, we could be required to liquidate one or more of our investments in properties at times that may not permit realization of the maximum return on such investments. We have broad authority to incur debt, and high debt levels could hinder our ability to make distributions and could decrease the value of stockholder’s investment. Our charter generally limits us to incurring debt no greater than 60.0% of the greater of cost (before deducting depreciation or other non-cash reserves) or fair market value of all of our assets, unless any excess borrowing is approved by a majority of our independent directors and disclosed to our stockholders in our next quarterly report, along with a justification for such excess borrowing. High debt levels would cause us to incur higher interest charges, would result in higher debt service payments and could be accompanied by restrictive covenants. These factors could limit the amount of cash we have available to distribute and could result in a decline in the value of stockholder’s investment. 31 Table of Contents Our independent directors approved, and we expect that during the term of the Offering we will again request that our independent directors approve our ability to incur debt greater than the debt limit discussed above. We have with the approval of a majority of our independent directors, incur debt that is in excess of 60% of the greater of cost (before deducting depreciation or other non-cash reserves) or fair market value of all of our assets. We anticipate that we will receive such authority, from time to time in the future for additional borrowings. This results in our having greater than normal debt servicing payments, which may restrict our ability to purchase additional properties or the availability of cash to make distributions to our stockholders. Risks Associated with Section 1031 Exchange Transactions and Tenant-in-Common Investments We may have increased exposure to liabilities from litigation as a result of our participation in a Tenant-in-Common Program. Cole Capital Partners, an affiliate of our advisor, has developed Tenant-in-Common Programs to facilitate the acquisition of real estate properties to be owned in co-tenancy arrangements with persons who are looking to invest proceeds from a sale of real estate to qualify for like-kind exchange treatment under Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code. We may participate in the Tenant-in-Common program by either co-investing in the property with the Cole Exchange Entity or purchasing a tenant-in-common interest from the Cole Exchange Entity, generally at the Cole Exchange Entity’s cost. Changes in tax laws may result in Tenant-in-Common Programs no longer being available, which may adversely affect such programs or cause them not to achieve their intended value. The Cole Exchange Entities are affiliates of our advisor, and, as such, even though we do not sponsor these Tenant-in-Common Programs, we may be named in or otherwise required to defend against any lawsuits brought by Tenant-in-Common Participants because of our affiliation with sponsors of such transactions. Furthermore, in the event that the Internal Revenue Service conducts an audit of the purchasers of co-tenancy interests and successfully challenges the qualification of the transaction as a like-kind exchange, purchasers of co-tenancy interests may file a lawsuit against the entity offering the co-tenancy interests, its sponsors, and/or us. In such event we may be involved in one or more such offerings and could therefore be named in or otherwise required to defend against lawsuits brought by other Tenant-in-Common Participants. Any amounts we are required to expend defending any such claims will reduce the amount of funds available for investment by us in properties or other investments and may reduce the amount of funds available for distribution to our stockholders. In addition, disclosure of any such litigation may adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital in the future through the sale of stock. We may be subject to risks associated with Tenant-in-Common Programs inherent in ownership of co-tenancy interests with non-affiliated third parties. In connection with some of our property acquisitions, we may become tenant-in-common owners of properties in which Cole Exchange Entities sell tenant-in-common interests to Tenant-in-Common Participants. As an owner of tenant-in-common interests in properties, we will be subject to the risks inherent to the ownership of co-tenancy interests with unrelated third parties. In a substantial majority of these transactions, the underlying property serves as collateral for the mortgage loan used to finance the purchase of the property. To the extent the loan is not repaid in full as part of the Tenant-in-Common Program, the loan remains outstanding after the sale of the co-tenancy interests to the Tenant-in-Common Participants. Each co-tenant is a borrower under the loan agreements. However, these loans generally are non-recourse against the Tenant-in-Common Participants interests and are secured by real property. However, the Tenant-in-Common Participants are required to indemnify and become liable to the lender for customary carve-outs under the applicable financing documents, including but not limited to fraud or intentional misrepresentation by a co-tenant or a guarantor of the loan, physical waste of the property, misapplication or misappropriation of insurance proceeds and failure to pay taxes. 32 Table of Contents We will be subject to risks associated with the co-tenants in our co-tenancy arrangements that otherwise may not be present in other real estate investments. We may enter in tenant-in-common or other co-tenancy arrangements with respect to a portion of the properties we acquire. Ownership of co-tenancy interests involves risks generally not otherwise present with an investment in real estate such as the following: • the risk that a co-tenant may at any time have economic or business interests or goals that are or become inconsistent with our business interests or goals; • the risk that a co-tenant may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives; • the possibility that an individual co-tenant might become insolvent or bankrupt, or otherwise default under the applicable mortgage loan financing documents, which may constitute an event of default under all of the applicable mortgage loan financing documents or allow the bankruptcy court to reject the tenants-in-common agreement or management agreement entered into by the co-tenants owning interests in the property; • the possibility that a co-tenant might not have adequate liquid assets to make cash advances that may be required in order to fund operations, maintenance and other expenses related to the property, which could result in the loss of a current or prospective tenants and may otherwise adversely affect the operation and maintenance of the property, could cause a default under the mortgage loan financing documents applicable to the property may result in late charges, penalties and interest and may lead to the exercise of foreclosure and other remedies by the lender; • the risk that a co-tenant could breach agreements related to the property, which may cause a default under, or result in personal liability for, the applicable mortgage loan financing documents, violate applicable securities law and otherwise adversely affect the property and the co-tenancy arrangement; or • the risk that a default by any co-tenant would constitute a default under the applicable mortgage loan financing documents that could result in a foreclosure and the loss of all or a substantial portion of the investment made by the co-tenants. Any of the above might subject a property to liabilities in excess of those contemplated and thus reduce the amount available for distribution to our stockholders. In the event that our interests become adverse to those of the other co-tenants, we will not have the contractual right to purchase the co-tenancy interests from the other co-tenants. Even if we are given the opportunity to purchase such co-tenancy interests in the future, we cannot guarantee that we will have sufficient funds available at the time to purchase co-tenancy interests from the Tenant-in-Common Participants. We might want to sell our co-tenancy interests in a given property at a time when the other co-tenants in such property do not desire to sell their interests. Therefore, we may not be able to sell our interest in a property at the time we would like to sell. In addition, we anticipate that it will be much more difficult to find a willing buyer for our co-tenancy interests in a property than it would be to find a buyer for a property we owned outright. Federal Income Tax Risks Failure to qualify as a REIT would adversely affect our operations and our ability to make distributions. Morris, Manning & Martin, LLP, our legal counsel, has rendered its opinion that we will qualify as a REIT when we file our tax return for the year ended December 31, 2005, based upon our representations as to the manner in which we are and will be owned, invest in assets and operate, among other things. However, our qualification as a REIT will depend upon our ability to meet, through investments, actual operating results, distributions and satisfaction of specific stockholder rules, the various tests imposed by 33 Table of Contents the Internal Revenue Code. Morris, Manning & Martin, LLP will not review these operating results or compliance with the qualification standards on an ongoing basis. This means that we may fail to satisfy the REIT requirements in the future. Also, this opinion represents Morris, Manning & Martin, LLP’s legal judgment based on the law in effect as of the date of June 27, 2005. Morris, Manning & Martin, LLP’s opinion is not binding on the Internal Revenue Service or the courts, and we will not apply for a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service regarding our status as a REIT. Future legislative, judicial or administrative changes to the federal income tax laws could be applied retroactively, which could result in our disqualification as a REIT. If we fail to qualify as a REIT for any taxable year, we will be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at corporate rates. In addition, we would generally be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year of losing our REIT status. Losing our REIT status would reduce our net earnings available for investment or distribution to stockholders because of the additional tax liability. In addition, distributions to stockholders would no longer qualify for the distributions paid deduction, and we would no longer be required to make distributions. If this occurs, we might be required to borrow funds or liquidate some investments in order to pay the applicable tax. Certain fees paid to Cole OP II may affect our REIT status. In connection with any Tenant-in-Common Program, Cole OP II could enter into a number of contractual arrangements with Tenant-in-Common Participants, that will, in effect, guarantee the sale of the co-tenancy interests being offered by any Tenant-in-Common Participants. In consideration for entering into these agreements, Cole OP II would be paid fees that could be characterized by the Internal Revenue Service as non-qualifying income for purposes of satisfying the “income tests” required for REIT qualification. If this fee income were, in fact, treated as non-qualifying, and if the aggregate of such fee income and any other non-qualifying income in any taxable year ever exceeded 5.0% of our gross revenues for such year, we could lose our REIT status for that taxable year and the four following taxable years. As set forth above, we will use all reasonable efforts to structure our activities in a manner intended to satisfy the requirements for our continued qualification as a REIT. Our failure to qualify as a REIT would adversely affect a stockholder’s return on their investment. Recharacterization of the Tenant-in-Common Programs may result in a 100% tax on income from a prohibited transaction, which would diminish our cash distributions to stockholders. The Internal Revenue Service could recharacterize transactions under a Tenant-in-Common Program such that Cole OP II, rather than the Tenant-in-Common Participant, is treated as the bona fide owner, for tax purposes, of properties acquired and resold by a Tenant-in-Common Participant in connection with the Tenant-in-Common Programs. Such characterization could result in the fees paid to Cole OP II by a Tenant-in-Common Participant as being deemed income from a prohibited transaction, in which event the fee income paid to us in connection with the Tenant-in-Common Programs would be subject to a 100% penalty tax. If this occurs, our ability to pay cash distributions to stockholders will be adversely affected. We anticipate that the Cole Exchange Entity will obtain a legal opinion in connection with each Tenant-in-Common Program to the effect that the program will qualify as a like-kind exchange under Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code. However, no assurance can be given that the Internal Revenue Service will not take a position contrary to such an opinion. Recharacterization of sale-leaseback transactions may cause us to lose our REIT status. We have purchased, and in the future may purchase, properties and lease them back to the sellers of such properties. While we use our best efforts to structure any such sale-leaseback transaction so that the lease will be characterized as a “true lease,” thereby allowing us to be treated as the owner of the property for federal income tax purposes, we cannot assure stockholders that the IRS will not challenge such characterization. In the event that any sale-leaseback transaction is challenged and recharacterized as a financing transaction or loan for federal income tax purposes, deductions for depreciation and cost recovery relating to such property would be disallowed. If a sale-leaseback transaction were so recharacterized, we 34 Table of Contents might fail to satisfy the REIT qualification “asset tests” or the “income tests” and, consequently, lose our REIT status effective with the year of recharacterization. Alternatively, the amount of our REIT taxable income could be recalculated, which might also cause us to fail to meet the distribution requirement for a taxable year. Stockholders may have tax liability on distributions you elect to reinvest in our common stock. If stockholders participate in our distribution reinvestment plan, they will be deemed to have received, and for income tax purposes will be taxed on, the amount reinvested in common stock to the extent the amount reinvested was not a tax-free return of capital. As a result, unless stockholders are a tax-exempt entity, they may have to use funds from other sources to pay their tax liability on the value of the common stock received. In certain circumstances, we may be subject to federal and state income taxes as a REIT, which would reduce our cash available for distribution to stockholders. Even if we qualify and maintain our status as a REIT, we may be subject to federal income taxes or state taxes. For example, net income from a “prohibited transaction” would be subject to a 100% tax. We may not be able to make sufficient distributions to avoid excise taxes applicable to REITs. We may also decide to retain income we earn from the sale or other disposition of our property and pay income tax directly on such income. In that event, our stockholders would be treated as if they earned that income and paid the tax on it directly. However, stockholders that are tax-exempt, such as charities or qualified pension plans, would have no benefit from their deemed payment of such tax liability. We may also be subject to state and local taxes on our income or property, either directly or at the level of Cole OP II or the other companies through which we indirectly own our assets. Any federal or state taxes we pay will reduce our cash available for distribution to stockholders. Legislative or regulatory action could adversely affect investors. Under recently enacted tax legislation, the tax rate applicable to qualifying corporate distributions received by individuals prior to 2009 has been reduced to a maximum rate of 15.0%. This special tax rate is generally not applicable to distributions paid by a REIT, unless such distributions represent earnings on which the REIT itself has been taxed. As a result, distributions (other than capital gain distributions) we pay to individual investors generally will be subject to the tax rates that are otherwise applicable to ordinary income, which currently are as high as 35.0%. This change in law may make an investment in our shares comparatively less attractive to individual investors than an investment in the shares of non-REIT corporations, and could have an adverse effect on the value of our common stock. Stockholders are urged to consult with their own tax advisor with respect to the impact of recent legislation on their investment in our common stock and the status of legislative, regulatory or administrative developments and proposals and their potential effect on an investment in our common stock. Stockholders should also note that our counsel’s tax opinion assumes that no legislation will be enacted after June 27, 2005 that will be applicable to an investment in our shares. Foreign purchasers of our common stock may be subject to FIRPTA tax upon the sale of their shares. A foreign person disposing of a U.S. real property interest, including shares of a U.S. corporation whose assets consist principally of U.S. real property interests is generally subject to a tax, known as FIRPTA tax, on the gain recognized on the disposition. Such FIRPTA tax does not apply, however, to the disposition of stock in a REIT if the REIT is “domestically controlled.” A REIT is “domestically controlled” if less than 50.0% of the REIT’s stock, by value, has been owned directly or indirectly by persons who are not qualifying U.S. persons during a continuous five-year period ending on the date of disposition or, if shorter, during the entire period of the REIT’s existence. We cannot assure you that we will qualify as a “domestically controlled” REIT. If we were to fail to so qualify, gain realized by foreign investors on a sale of our shares would be subject to FIRPTA tax, 35 Table of Contents unless our shares were traded on an established securities market and the foreign investor did not at any time during a specified testing period directly or indirectly own more than 5.0% of the value of our outstanding common stock. There are special considerations that apply to pension or profit-sharing trusts or IRAs investing in our shares. If stockholders are investing the assets of a pension, profit-sharing, 401(k), Keogh or other qualified retirement plan or the assets of an IRA in our common stock, stockholders should satisfy themselves that, among other things: • their investment is consistent with fiduciary obligations under ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code; • their investment is made in accordance with the documents and instruments governing the stockholder’s plan or IRA, including the stockholder’s plan investment policy; • their investment satisfies the prudence and diversification requirements of ERISA; • their investment will not impair the liquidity of the plan or IRA; • their investment will not produce UBTI for the plan or IRA; • stockholders will be able to value the assets of the plan annually in accordance with ERISA requirements; and • Their investment will not constitute a prohibited transaction under Section 406 of ERISA or Section 4975 of the Internal Revenue Code. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 36 Table of Contents 