Item 1A. Risk FactorsSpecial Note Regarding Forward-Looking StatementsThis Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. In particular, statements pertaining to our business and growth strategies, investment, financing and leasing activities and trends in our business, including trends in the market for long-term, triple-net leases of freestanding, single-tenant properties, contain forward-looking statements. When used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the words “estimate,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “believe,” “intend,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “seek,” “approximately” or “plan,” or the negative of these words and phrases or similar words or phrases which are predictions of or indicate future events or trends and which do not relate solely to historical matters are intended to identify forward-looking statements. You can also identify forward-looking statements by discussions of strategy, plans or intentions of management. 12Table of ContentsForward-looking statements involve numerous risks and uncertainties and you should not rely on them as predictions of future events. Forward-looking statements depend on assumptions, data or methods which may be incorrect or imprecise and we may not be able to realize them. We do not guarantee that the transactions and events described will happen as described (or that they will happen at all). The following factors, among others, could cause actual results and future events to differ materially from those set forth or contemplated in the forward-looking statements:•general business and economic conditions; •continued volatility and uncertainty in the credit markets and broader financial markets, including potential fluctuations in the consumer price index; •our success in implementing our business strategy and our ability to identify, underwrite, finance, consummate, integrate and manage diversifying acquisitions or investments; •the nature and extent of future competition; •increases in our costs of borrowing as a result of changes in interest rates and other factors; •our ability to access debt and equity capital markets; •our ability to pay down, refinance, restructure and/or extend our indebtedness as it becomes due; •our ability and willingness to renew our leases upon expiration of the leases and our ability to reposition our properties on the same or better terms in the event such leases expire and are not renewed by the tenants or in the event we exercise our rights to replace an existing tenant upon default; •the impact of any financial, accounting, legal or regulatory issues or litigation that may affect us or our major tenants; •other risks inherent in the real estate business, including tenant defaults, potential liability relating to environmental matters, illiquidity of real estate investments and potential damages from natural disasters; •the risk that the anticipated benefits from the Merger may not be realized or may take longer to realize than expected;•the risk that significant information technology systems conversions that we are undertaking or may undertake in the future may take longer to implement than expected or that anticipated benefits may not be realized; •our ability and willingness to maintain our qualification as a REIT due to economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations;•we have incurred substantial expenses related to the Merger and expect to continue to incur substantial expenses related to the integration; and •our future results may suffer if we do not effectively manage our expanded operations.You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. While forward-looking statements reflect our good faith beliefs, they are not guarantees of future performance. We disclaim any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement to reflect changes in underlying assumptions or factors, of new information, data or methods, future events or other changes, except as required by law. Set forth below are some (but not all) of the factors that could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Moreover, we operate in a highly competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results.13Table of ContentsRisks Following the MergerWe have incurred substantial expenses related to the Merger and expect to continue to incur substantial expenses related to the integration.We have incurred substantial expenses in connection with completing the Merger and expect to incur substantial expenses integrating the business, operations, networks, systems, technologies, policies and procedures of Cole II with those of pre-merger Spirit. There are several systems that must be integrated, including those related to accounting and finance and asset management. While it has been assumed that a certain level of transaction and integration expenses would be incurred, there are a number of factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of our integration expenses. Many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately. As a result, the transaction and integration expenses associated with the Merger could, particularly in the near term, exceed the savings that we expect to achieve from the elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of scale and cost savings related to the integration of the businesses.We may be unable to integrate successfully the businesses of Cole II and pre-merger Spirit and realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger or do so within the anticipated timeframe.The Merger involved the combination of Cole II (a non-traded REIT) and pre-merger Spirit (a publicly traded REIT), which operated independently from each other. Even though the companies were operationally similar, we have been required to and expect to continue to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating each business’s respective practices and operations. The Cole II portfolio contained certain multi-tenant assets and double net leased-properties that may require additional resources and management attention than triple net leased properties. Management attention and resources have been expended in the repositioning and sale of certain assets acquired Merger, and additional attention and resources may be required for further dispositions. It is possible that the integration process could result in the distraction of our management, the disruption of our ongoing business or inconsistencies in our operations, services, standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, vendors and employees or to fully achieve the anticipated benefits of the Merger.Our future results will suffer if we do not effectively manage our expanded operations.We may continue to expand our operations through additional acquisitions and other strategic transactions, and modernize our information technology and management systems through new systems implementations, some of which may involve complex challenges. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to manage our expansion opportunities, integrate new operations into our existing business in an efficient and timely manner, successfully monitor our operations, costs and regulatory compliance and develop and maintain other necessary systems, processes and internal controls. We cannot assure you that our expansion or acquisition opportunities will be successful, or that we will realize their expected operating efficiencies, cost savings, revenue enhancements, synergies or other benefits.We rely heavily on information technology in our operations and any material failure, weakness, interruption or breach of security could prevent us from effectively operating our business. We rely on several information systems across our operations and corporate functions including finance and accounting that we depend on to ensure payment of obligations, collection of cash, data warehousing to support analytics and other various processes and procedures. Our ability to efficiently and effectively manage our business depends significantly on the reliability and capacity of these systems. The failure of these systems to operate effectively, maintenance problems, upgrading or transitioning to new platforms, or a breach in security of these systems could result in reduced efficiency in our operations and accuracy in our internal and external financial reporting. Remediation of such problems could result in significant unplanned expenditures. In response to our dramatic expansion as a result of the Merger, we are continuing the process of implementing a finance and accounting system to meet our long-term vision of continued growth. Large-scale system implementations, however, are complex and time-consuming projects that are capital intensive and can span a year or more. Certain business and financial processes will also require transformation in order to effectively leverage the systems benefits. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if we experience system usage problems and/or cost overruns during the implementation process, or if associated process changes do not give rise to the benefits that we expect. Additionally, if we do not effectively implement systems as planned or if any system does not operate 14Table of Contentsas intended, it could adversely affect the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures.Risks Related to Our Business and Properties We are subject to risks related to commercial real estate ownership that could reduce the value of our properties. Our core business is the ownership of real estate that is leased to retail, service and distribution companies on a triple-net basis. Accordingly, our performance is subject to risks incident to the ownership of commercial real estate, including: •inability to collect rents from tenants due to financial hardship, including bankruptcy; •changes in local real estate conditions in the markets in which we operate, including the availability and demand for single-tenant retail space; •changes in consumer trends and preferences that affect the demand for products and services offered by our tenants; •inability to lease or sell properties upon expiration or termination of existing leases; •environmental risks related to the presence of hazardous or toxic substances or materials on our properties; •the subjectivity of real estate valuations and changes in such valuations over time; •the illiquid nature of real estate compared to most other financial assets; •changes in laws and governmental regulations, including those governing real estate usage and zoning; •changes in interest rates and the availability of financing; and •changes in the general economic and business climate. The occurrence of any of the risks described above may cause the value of our real estate to decline, which could materially and adversely affect us. Global market and economic conditions may materially and adversely affect us and our tenants.In the United States, market and economic conditions have improved, but continue to be challenging as many companies struggle to recover from the recent economic crisis, which resulted in increased unemployment, large-scale business failures and tight credit markets. Our results of operations are sensitive to changes in the overall economic conditions that impact our tenants’ financial condition and leasing practices. Adverse economic conditions such as high unemployment levels, interest rates, tax rates and fuel and energy costs may have an impact on the results of operations and financial conditions of our tenants. During periods of economic slowdown, rising interest rates and declining demand for real estate may result in a general decline in rents or an increased incidence of defaults under existing leases. Rental rates and valuations for retail space, which have decreased over the past few years, have not fully recovered to pre-recession levels and we are unable to predict when they may do so. Continued volatility in the United States and global markets makes it difficult to determine the breadth and duration of the impact of the recent economic and financial market crises and the ways in which our tenants and our business may be affected. A continuation of the recent lack of demand for rental space could adversely affect our ability to maintain our current tenants and gain new tenants, which may affect our growth and profitability. Accordingly, the prolonged continuation or further worsening of recent financial conditions could materially and adversely affect us. Our business is dependent upon our tenants successfully operating their businesses and their failure to do so could materially and adversely affect us. Generally, each of our properties is operated and occupied by a single tenant. Therefore, the success of our investments is materially dependent on the financial stability of our tenants. The success of any one of our tenants is dependent on its individual business and its industry, which could be adversely affected by economic conditions in general, changes in consumer trends and preferences and other factors over which neither they nor we have control. Our portfolio consists primarily of properties leased to single tenants that operate in multiple locations, which means we own numerous properties operated by the same tenant. To the extent we finance numerous properties operated by one company, the general failure of that single tenant or a loss or significant decline in its business could materially and adversely affect us. At any given time, any tenant may experience a downturn in its business that may weaken its operating results or the overall financial condition of individual properties or its business as whole. As a result, a tenant may delay lease 15Table of Contentscommencement, fail to make rental payments when due, decline to extend a lease upon its expiration, become insolvent or declare bankruptcy. We depend on our tenants to operate the properties we own in a manner which generates revenues sufficient to allow them to meet their obligations to us, including their obligations to pay rent, maintain certain insurance coverage, pay real estate taxes and maintain the properties in a manner so as not to jeopardize their operating licenses or regulatory status. The ability of our tenants to fulfill their obligations under our leases may depend, in part, upon the overall profitability of their operations. Cash flow generated by certain tenant businesses may not be sufficient for a tenant to meet its obligations to us. Although our occupied properties are generally operationally essential to our tenants, meaning the property is essential to the tenant’s generation of sales and profits, this does not guarantee that a tenant’s operations at a particular property will be successful or that the tenant will meet all of its obligations to us. We could be materially and adversely affected if a number of our tenants were unable to meet their obligations to us. Single-tenant leases involve significant risks of tenant default. Our strategy focuses primarily on investing in single-tenant triple-net leased properties throughout the United States. The financial failure of, or default in payment by, a single tenant under its lease is likely to cause a significant or complete reduction in our rental revenue from that property and a reduction in the value of the property. We may also experience difficulty or a significant delay in re-leasing or selling such property. This risk is magnified in situations where we lease multiple properties to a single tenant under a master lease. A tenant failure or default under a master lease could reduce or eliminate rental revenue from multiple properties and reduce the value of such properties. Although the master lease structure may be beneficial to us because it restricts the ability of tenants to remove individual underperforming assets, there is no guarantee that a tenant will not default in its obligations to us or decline to renew its master lease upon expiration. The default of a tenant that leases multiple properties from us could materially and adversely affect us. A substantial number of our properties are leased to one tenant, which may result in increased risk due to tenant and industry concentrations. Currently, we lease 181 properties to Shopko/Pamida, primarily pursuant to three master leases. The Shopko/Pamida leases are guaranteed by Specialty Retail Shops Holding Corp., the parent company of Shopko/Pamida (the “Shopko Guarantor”). Subsequent to the Merger, revenues generated from Shopko/Pamida represented 14.8% of the Company's total revenues for the three months ended December 31, 2013. Because a significant portion of our revenues are derived from rental revenues received from Shopko/Pamida, defaults, breaches or delay in payment of rent by it may materially and adversely affect us. As a result of the significant number of properties leased to Shopko/Pamida, our results of operations and financial condition will be closely tied to Shopko/Pamida's performance under its leases, which is ultimately tied to the performance of its stores and the retail industry in which it operates. Shopko/Pamida operates as a multi-department general merchandise retailer and retail health services provider primarily in mid-size and larger communities in the Midwest, Pacific Northwest, North Central and Western Mountain states. Shopko/Pamida is subject to the following risks, as well as other risks that we are not currently aware of, that could adversely affect its ability to pay rent to us: •The retail industry in which it operates is highly competitive, which could limit growth opportunities and reduce profitability. Shopko/Pamida competes with other discount retail merchants as well as mass merchants, catalog merchants, internet retailers and other general merchandise, apparel and household merchandise retailers. It faces strong competition from large national discount retailers, such as Walmart, Kmart and Target, and mid-tier merchants such as Kohl’s and JCPenney. •Shopko/Pamida stores are geographically located in a limited number of regions, particularly in the Midwest, Pacific Northwest, North Central and Western Mountain states. Adverse economic conditions in these regions may materially and adversely affect its results of operations, retail sales and ability to make payments to us under the leases. •Fluctuations in quarterly performance and seasonality in retail operations may cause Shopko/Pamida’s results of operations to vary considerably from quarter to quarter and could adversely affect its cash flows. •Shopko/Pamida stores are dependent on the efficient functioning of its distribution networks. Problems that cause delays or interruptions in the distribution networks could materially and adversely affect its results of operations. •Shopko/Pamida stores depend on attracting and retaining quality employees. Many employees are entry level or part-time employees with historically high rates of turnover. 16Table of ContentsIf Shopko/Pamida experiences declines in its business, financial condition or results of operations, it may request discounts or deferrals on the rents it pays to us, seek to terminate its master leases with us or close certain of its stores, all of which could decrease the amount of revenue we receive from it. Decreases in the amount of revenue received from Shopko/Pamida could materially and adversely affect us. A substantial portion of our properties are leased to unrated tenants, and the tools we use to measure credit quality may not be accurate. A substantial portion our properties are leased to unrated tenants whom we determine, through our internal underwriting and credit analysis, to be creditworthy. Many of our tenants are required to provide corporate-level financial information, which includes balance sheet, income statement and cash flow statement data on a quarterly and or annual basis, and approximately 50% of our lease investment portfolio require the tenant to provide property-level performance information, which includes income statement data on a quarterly and or annual basis. To assist in our determination of a tenant’s credit quality, we license a product from Moody’s Analytics that provides an estimated default frequency (“EDF”) and a “shadow rating,” and we evaluate a lease’s property-level rent coverage ratio. An EDF is only an estimate of default probability based, in part, on assumptions incorporated into the product. A shadow rating does not constitute a published credit rating and lacks the extensive company participation that is typically involved when a rating agency publishes a rating; accordingly, a shadow rating may not be as indicative of creditworthiness as a rating published by Moody’s Investment Services, Inc. (“Moody’s”), Standard & Poor’s (“S&P”), or another nationally recognized statistical rating organization. Our calculations of EDFs, shadow ratings and rent coverage ratios are based on financial information provided to us by our tenants and prospective tenants without independent verification on our part, and we must assume the appropriateness of estimates and judgments that were made by the party preparing the financial information. If our assessment of credit quality proves to be inaccurate, we may be subject to defaults, and investors may view our cash flows as less stable. The ability of an unrated tenant to meet its obligations to us may not be considered as well assured as that of rated tenant. The decrease in demand for retail and restaurant space may materially and adversely affect us. As of December 31, 2013, leases representing approximately 37.5% and 16.7% of our annual rent were with tenants in the retail and restaurant industries, respectively. In the future we may acquire additional retail and restaurant properties. Accordingly, decreases in the demand for retail and/or restaurant spaces may have a greater adverse effect on us than if we had fewer investments in these industries. The market for retail and restaurant space has previously been, and could continue to be, adversely affected by weakness in the national, regional and local economies, the adverse financial condition of some large retail and restaurant companies, the ongoing consolidation in the retail and restaurant industries, the excess amount of retail and restaurant space in a number of markets and, in the case of the retail industry, increasing consumer purchases through catalogs or the Internet. To the extent that these conditions continue, they are likely to negatively affect market rents for retail and restaurant space and could materially and adversely affect us. A high concentration of our properties in a particular geographic area would magnify the effects of downturns in that geographic area or industry.As of December 31, 2013, 12.6% of our portfolio (as a percentage of rent) was located in the state of Texas, the state representing the highest concentration of our assets at that time. Any adverse developments in the economy or real estate market in Texas and the surrounding region, or any state or region in which we develop a substantial concentration of assets in the future, or any decrease in demand for net leased commercial space in such geographic locations resulting from regulatory or business environment could materially and adversely affect us.We may be unable to renew leases, lease vacant space or re-lease space as leases expire on favorable terms or at all. Our results of operations depend on our ability to continue to strategically lease space in our properties, including renewing expiring leases, leasing vacant space and re-leasing space in properties where leases are expiring, optimizing our tenant mix or leasing properties on more economically favorable terms. As of December 31, 2013, leases representing approximately 2.1% of our annual rent will expire during 2014. As of December 31, 2013, 21 of our properties, representing approximately 1.0% of our total number of owned properties, were vacant. Current tenants may decline, or may not have the financial resources available, to renew current leases and we cannot assure you that leases that are renewed will have terms that are as economically favorable to us as the expiring lease terms. If tenants do not renew the leases as they expire, we will have to find new tenants to lease our properties and there is 17Table of Contentsno guarantee that we will be able to find new tenants or that our properties will be re-leased at rental rates equal to or above the current average rental rates or that substantial rent abatements, tenant improvement allowances, early termination rights or below-market renewal options will not be offered to attract new tenants. We may experience significant costs in connection with re-leasing a significant number of our properties, which could materially and adversely affect us. Our ability to realize future rent increases will vary depending on changes in the CPI.Most of our leases contain rent escalators, or provisions that periodically increase the base rent payable by the tenant under the lease. Although some of our rent escalators increase rent at a fixed amount on fixed dates, most of our rent escalators increase rent by the lesser of (a) 1 to 1.25 times any increase in the CPI over a specified period or (b) a fixed percentage. If the product of any increase in the CPI multiplied by the applicable factor is less than the fixed percentage, the increased rent we are entitled to receive will be less than what we otherwise would have been entitled to receive if the rent escalator was based solely on a fixed percentage. Therefore, during periods of low inflation or deflation, small increases or decreases in the CPI will subject us to the risk of receiving lower rental revenue than we otherwise would have been entitled to receive if our rent escalators were based solely on fixed percentages or amounts. Conversely, if the product of any increase in the CPI multiplied by the applicable factor is more than the fixed percentage, the increased rent we are entitled to receive will be less than what we otherwise would have been entitled to receive if the rent escalator was based solely on an increase in CPI. Therefore, periods of high inflation will subject us to the risk of receiving lower rental revenue than we otherwise would have been entitled to receive if our rent escalators were based solely on CPI increases. The bankruptcy or insolvency of any of our tenants could result in the termination of such tenant’s lease and material losses to us. The occurrence of a tenant bankruptcy or insolvency could diminish the income we receive from that tenant’s lease or leases. If a tenant becomes bankrupt or insolvent, federal law may prohibit us from evicting such tenant based solely upon such bankruptcy or insolvency. In addition, a bankrupt or insolvent tenant may be authorized to reject and terminate its lease or leases with us. Any claims against such bankrupt tenant for unpaid future rent would be subject to statutory limitations that would likely result in our receipt of rental revenues that are substantially less than the contractually specified rent we are owed under the lease or leases. In addition, any claim we have for unpaid past rent, if any, may not be paid in full. We may also be unable to re-lease a terminated or rejected space or to re-lease it on comparable or more favorable terms. As a result, tenant bankruptcies may materially and adversely affect us. Tenants who are considering filing for bankruptcy protection may request that we agree to amendments of their master leases to remove certain of the properties they lease from us under such master leases. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to sell or re-lease properties that we agree to release from tenants’ leases in the future or that lease termination fees, if any, received in exchange for such releases will be sufficient to make up for the rental revenues lost as a result of lease amendments. Property vacancies could result in significant capital expenditures. The loss of a tenant, either through lease expiration or tenant bankruptcy or insolvency, may require us to spend significant amounts of capital to renovate the property before it is suitable for a new tenant and cause us to incur significant costs. Many of the leases we enter into or acquire are for properties that are especially suited to the particular business of our tenants. Because these properties have been designed or physically modified for a particular tenant, if the current lease is terminated or not renewed, we may be required to renovate the property at substantial costs, decrease the rent we charge or provide other concessions in order to lease the property to another tenant. In addition, in the event we are required to sell the property, we may have difficulty selling it to a party other than the tenant due to the special purpose for which the property may have been designed or modified. This potential illiquidity may limit our ability to quickly modify our portfolio in response to changes in economic or other conditions, including tenant demand. These limitations may materially and adversely affect us. We may be unable to identify and complete acquisitions of suitable properties, which may impede our growth, and our future acquisitions may not yield the returns we expect. Our ability to expand through acquisitions requires us to identify and complete acquisitions or investment opportunities that are compatible with our growth strategy and to successfully integrate newly acquired properties into our portfolio. We continually evaluate investment opportunities and may acquire properties when strategic opportunities exist. Our 18Table of Contentsability to acquire properties on favorable terms and successfully operate them may be constrained by the following significant risks: •we face competition from other real estate investors with significant capital, including REITs and institutional investment funds, which may be able to accept more risk than we can prudently manage, including risks associated with paying higher acquisition prices; •we face competition from other potential acquirers which may significantly increase the purchase price for a property we acquire, which could reduce our growth prospects; •we may incur significant costs and divert management attention in connection with evaluating and negotiating potential acquisitions, including ones that we are subsequently unable to complete; •we may acquire properties that are not accretive to our results upon acquisition, and we may be unsuccessful in managing and leasing such properties in accordance with our expectations; •our cash flow from an acquired property may be insufficient to meet our required principal and interest payments with respect to debt used to finance the acquisition of such property; •we may discover unexpected items, such as unknown liabilities, during our due diligence investigation of a potential acquisition or other customary closing conditions may not be satisfied, causing us to abandon an acquisition opportunity after incurring expenses related thereto; •we may fail to obtain financing for an acquisition on favorable terms or at all; •we may spend more than budgeted amounts to make necessary improvements or renovations to acquired properties; •market conditions may result in higher than expected vacancy rates and lower than expected rental rates; or •we may acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities such as liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination, claims by tenants, vendors or other persons dealing with the former owners of the properties, liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business and claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties. If any of these risks are realized, we may be materially and adversely affected. Illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties and harm our financial condition. The real estate investments made, and expected to be made, by us are relatively difficult to sell quickly. As a result, our ability to promptly sell one or more properties in our portfolio in response to changing economic, financial or investment conditions is limited. Return of capital and realization of gains, if any, from an investment generally will occur upon disposition or refinancing of the underlying property. We may be unable to realize our investment objective by sale, other disposition or refinancing at attractive prices within any given period of time or may otherwise be unable to complete any exit strategy. In particular, these risks could arise from weakness in or even the lack of an established market for a property, changes in the financial condition or prospects of prospective purchasers, changes in national or international economic conditions, such as the economic downturn of 2008 through 2010, and changes in laws, regulations or fiscal policies of the jurisdiction in which a property is located. In addition, the Code imposes restrictions on a REIT’s ability to dispose of properties that are not applicable to other types of real estate companies. In particular, the tax laws applicable to REITs effectively require that we hold our properties for investment, rather than primarily for sale in the ordinary course of business, which may cause us to forgo or defer sales of properties that otherwise would be in our best interest. Therefore, we may not be able to vary our portfolio in response to economic or other conditions promptly or on favorable terms, which may materially and adversely affect us. We face significant competition for tenants, which may decrease or prevent increases of the occupancy and rental rates of our properties, and competition for acquisitions may reduce the number of acquisitions we are able to complete and increase the costs of these acquisitions. We compete with numerous developers, owners and operators of properties, many of which own properties similar to ours in the same markets in which our properties are located. If our competitors offer space at rental rates below current market rates or below the rental rates we currently charge our tenants, we may lose existing or potential tenants 19Table of Contentsand we may be pressured to reduce our rental rates or to offer more substantial rent abatements, tenant improvements, early termination rights or below-market renewal options in order to retain tenants when our leases expire. Competition for tenants could decrease or prevent increases of the occupancy and rental rates of our properties, which could materially and adversely affect us. We also face competition for acquisitions of real property from investors, including traded and non-traded public REITs, private equity investors and institutional investment funds, some of which have greater financial resources than we do, a greater ability to borrow funds to acquire properties and the ability to accept more risk than we can prudently manage. This competition may increase the demand for the types of properties in which we typically invest and, therefore, reduce the number of suitable acquisition opportunities available to us and increase the prices paid for such acquisition properties. This competition will increase if investments in real estate become more attractive relative to other types of investment. Accordingly, competition for the acquisition of real property could materially and adversely affect us. The loss of a borrower or the failure of a borrower to make loan payments on a timely basis will reduce our revenues, which could lead to losses on our investments and reduced returns to our stockholders. We have originated or acquired long-term, commercial mortgage and equipment loans. The success of our loan investments is materially dependent on the financial stability of our borrowers. The success of our borrowers is dependent on each of their individual businesses and their industries, which could be affected by economic conditions in general, changes in consumer trends and preferences and other factors over which neither they nor we have control. A default of a borrower on its loan payments to us that would prevent us from earning interest or receiving a return of the principal of our loan could materially and adversely affect us. In the event of a default, we may also experience delays in enforcing our rights as lender and may incur substantial costs in collecting the amounts owed to us and in liquidating any collateral. Foreclosure and other similar proceedings used to enforce payment of real estate loans are generally subject to principles of equity, which are designed to relieve the indebted party from the legal effect of that party’s default. Foreclosure and other similar laws may limit our right to obtain a deficiency judgment against the defaulting party after a foreclosure or sale. The application of any of these principles may lead to a loss or delay in the payment on loans we hold, which in turn could reduce the amounts we have available to make distributions. Further, in the event we have to foreclose on a property, the amount we receive from the foreclosure sale of the property may be inadequate to fully pay the amounts owed to us by the borrower and our costs incurred to foreclose, repossess and sell the property which could materially and adversely affect us. If we invest in mortgage loans, these investments may be affected by unfavorable real estate market conditions, including interest rate fluctuations, which could decrease the value of those loans. If we invest in mortgage loans, we will be at risk of defaults by the borrowers and, in addition, will be subject to interest rate risks. To the extent we incur delays in liquidating defaulted mortgage loans, we may not be able to obtain all amounts due to us under such loans. Further, we will not know whether the values of the properties securing the mortgage loans will remain at the levels existing on the dates of origination of those mortgage loans or the dates of our investment in the loans. If the values of the underlying properties decline, the value of the collateral securing our mortgage loans will also decline and if we were to foreclose on any of the properties securing the mortgage loans, we may not be able to sell or lease them for an amount equal to the unpaid amounts due to us under the mortgage loans. As a result, defaults on mortgage loans in which we invest may materially and adversely affect us. Inflation may materially and adversely affect us and our tenants. Increased inflation could have a negative impact on variable-rate debt we currently have or that we may incur in the future. During times when inflation is greater than the increases in rent provided by many of our leases, rent increases will not keep up with the rate of inflation. Increased costs may have an adverse impact on our tenants if increases in their operating expenses exceed increases in revenue, which may adversely affect the tenants’ ability to pay rent owed to us. Our growth depends on external sources of capital that are outside of our control and may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In order to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we are required under the Code, among other things, to distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and 20Table of Contentsexcluding any net capital gain. In addition, we will be subject to income tax at regular corporate rates to the extent that we distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and including any net capital gain. Because of these distribution requirements, we may not be able to fund future capital needs, including any necessary acquisition financing, from operating cash flow. Consequently, we may rely on third-party sources to fund our capital needs. We may not be able to obtain the financing on favorable terms or at all. Any additional debt we incur will increase our leverage and likelihood of default. Our access to third-party sources of capital depends, in part, on: •general market conditions; •the market’s perception of our growth potential; •our current debt levels; •our current and expected future earnings; •our cash flow and cash distributions; and •the market price per share of our common stock. If we cannot obtain capital from third-party sources, we may not be able to acquire properties when strategic opportunities exist, meet the capital and operating needs of our existing properties, satisfy our debt service obligations or make the cash distributions to our stockholders necessary to maintain our qualification as a REIT. Historically, we have raised a significant amount of debt capital through our master trust facility and the CMBS market. We have generally used the proceeds from these financings to repay debt and fund real estate acquisitions. As of December 31, 2013, we had issued notes under our master trust facility in six different classes over four separate issuances with an aggregate outstanding principal balance of $1.24 billion. These notes mature in December 2018, July 2020 (two classes), March 2021, March 2022, and December 2023, respectively. As of December 31, 2013, we also had CMBS loans with an aggregate outstanding principal balance of $2.5 billion and an average maturity of 3.7 years. Our obligations under these loans are generally secured by liens on certain of our properties. In the case of our master trust facility, subject to certain conditions, we may substitute real estate collateral from time to time. No assurance can be given that the CMBS market will be available to us in the future, whether to refinance existing debt or to raise additional debt capital. Moreover, we view our ability to substitute collateral under our master trust facility favorably, and no assurance can be given that financing facilities offering similar flexibility will be available to us in the future.Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may materially and adversely affect us.We attempt to mitigate our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements. However, these arrangements involve risks and may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes. In addition, the counterparties to our hedging arrangements may not honor their obligations. Failure to hedge effectively against changes in interest rates relating to the interest expense of our future borrowings may materially and adversely affect us. Loss of our key personnel with long-standing business relationships could materially impair our ability to operate successfully. Our continued success and our ability to manage anticipated future growth depend, in large part, upon the efforts of key personnel, particularly our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of our board of directors, Thomas H. Nolan, Jr., our President and Chief Operating Officer, Peter M. Mavoides, and our Executive Vice President and Chief Investment Officer, Gregg A. Seibert, who have extensive market knowledge and relationships and exercise substantial influence over our operational, financing, acquisition and disposition activity. Among the reasons that they are important to our success is that each has a national or regional industry reputation that attracts business and investment opportunities and assists us in negotiations with lenders, existing and potential tenants and industry personnel. Many of our other key executive personnel, particularly our senior managers, also have extensive experience and strong reputations in the real estate industry and have been instrumental in setting our strategic direction, operating our business, identifying, recruiting and training key personnel and arranging necessary financing. In particular, the extent and nature of the relationships that these individuals have developed with financial institutions and existing and prospective tenants is critically important to the success of our business. The loss of services of one or more members of our senior management team, or our inability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel, could adversely affect 21Table of Contentsour business, diminish our investment opportunities and weaken our relationships with lenders, business partners, existing and prospective tenants and industry personnel, which could materially and adversely affect us. We have a limited operating history as a public company and our past experience may not be sufficient to allow us to successfully operate as a public company going forward. We have a limited operating history as a publicly traded company. Prior to the public offering in September 2012, we had not been publicly traded since 2007. We cannot assure you that our past experience will be sufficient to successfully operate our company as a publicly traded company, including the requirements to timely meet disclosure requirements of the SEC, and comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are required to develop and implement control systems and procedures in order to satisfy our periodic and current reporting requirements under applicable SEC regulations and comply with the NYSE, listing standards, and this transition could place a significant strain on our management systems, infrastructure and other resources. Failure to operate successfully as a public company could materially and adversely affect us. We may become subject to litigation, which could materially and adversely affect us. In the future we may become subject to litigation, including claims relating to our operations, security offerings (see litigation related to the Merger discussed in "Item 3. Legal Proceedings" below) and otherwise in the ordinary course of business. Some of these claims may result in significant defense costs and potentially significant judgments against us, some of which are not, or cannot be, insured against. We generally intend to vigorously defend ourselves. However, we cannot be certain of the ultimate outcomes of any claims that may arise in the future. Resolution of these types of matters against us may result in our having to pay significant fines, judgments, or settlements, which, if uninsured, or if the fines, judgments, and settlements exceed insured levels, could adversely impact our earnings and cash flows, thereby materially and adversely affecting us. Certain litigation or the resolution of certain litigation may affect the availability or cost of some of our insurance coverage, which could materially and adversely impact us, expose us to increased risks that would be uninsured, and materially and adversely impact our ability to attract directors and officers. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls, we may not be able to accurately and timely report our financial results. Effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. Beginning with our 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K to be filed in 2015, we will be required to perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. To date, the audit of our consolidated financial statements by our independent registered public accounting firm has included a consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis of designing their audit procedures but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion (as will be required pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002) on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. As a result of material weaknesses or significant deficiencies that may be identified in our internal control over financial reporting, we may also identify certain deficiencies in some of our disclosure controls and procedures that we believe require remediation. If we or our independent registered public accounting firm discover weaknesses, we will make efforts to improve our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls. However, there is no assurance that we will be successful. Any failure to maintain effective controls or timely effect any necessary improvement of our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls could harm operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, which could affect the listing of our common stock on the NYSE. Ineffective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the per share trading price of our common stock.The costs of compliance with or liabilities related to environmental laws may materially and adversely affect us. The properties we own or have owned in the past may subject us to known and unknown environmental liabilities. Under various federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the environment, as a current or former owner or operator of real property, we may be liable for costs and damages resulting from the presence or discharge of hazardous or toxic substances, waste or petroleum products at, on, in, under or migrating from such property, including 22Table of Contentscosts to investigate, clean up such contamination and liability for harm to natural resources. We may face liability regardless of: •our knowledge of the contamination; •the timing of the contamination; •the cause of the contamination; or •the party responsible for the contamination of the property. There may be environmental liabilities associated with our properties of which we are unaware. We obtain Phase I environmental site assessments on all properties we finance or acquire. The Phase I environmental site assessments are limited in scope and therefore may not reveal all environmental conditions affecting a property. Therefore, there could be undiscovered environmental liabilities on the properties we own. Some of our properties use, or may have used in the past, underground tanks for the storage of petroleum-based products or waste products that could create a potential for release of hazardous substances or penalties if tanks do not comply with legal standards. If environmental contamination exists on our properties, we could be subject to strict, joint and/or several liability for the contamination by virtue of our ownership interest. Some of our properties may contain ACM. Strict environmental laws govern the presence, maintenance and removal of ACM and such laws may impose fines and penalties for failure to comply with these requirements or expose us to third-party liability (e.g., liability for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos). Strict environmental laws also apply to other activities that can occur on a property, such as air emissions and water discharges, and such laws may impose fines and penalties for violations. The presence of hazardous substances on a property may adversely affect our ability to sell, lease or improve the property or to borrow using the property as collateral. In addition, environmental laws may create liens on contaminated properties in favor of the government for damages and costs it incurs to address such contamination. Moreover, if contamination is discovered on our properties, environmental laws may impose restrictions on the manner in which they may be used or businesses may be operated, and these restrictions may require substantial expenditures. In addition, although our leases generally require our tenants to operate in compliance with all applicable laws and to indemnify us against any environmental liabilities arising from a tenant’s activities on the property, we could be subject to strict liability by virtue of our ownership interest. We cannot be sure that our tenants will, or will be able to, satisfy their indemnification obligations, if any, under our leases. Furthermore, the discovery of environmental liabilities on any of our properties could lead to significant remediation costs or to other liabilities or obligations attributable to the tenant of that property, which may affect such tenant’s ability to make payments to us, including rental payments and, where applicable, indemnification payments. Our environmental liabilities may include property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs. These costs could be substantial. Although we may obtain insurance for environmental liability for certain properties that are deemed to warrant coverage, our insurance may be insufficient to address any particular environmental situation and we may be unable to continue to obtain insurance for environmental matters, at a reasonable cost or at all, in the future. If our environmental liability insurance is inadequate, we may become subject to material losses for environmental liabilities. Our ability to receive the benefits of any environmental liability insurance policy will depend on the financial stability of our insurance company and the position it takes with respect to our insurance policies. If we were to become subject to significant environmental liabilities, we could be materially and adversely affected. Most of the environmental risks discussed above refer to properties that we own or may acquire in the future. However, each of the risks identified also applies to the owners (and potentially, the lessees) of the properties that secure each of the loans we have made and any loans we may acquire or make in the future. Therefore, the existence of environmental conditions could diminish the value of each of the loans and the abilities of the borrowers to repay the loans and could materially and adversely affect us. Our properties may contain or develop harmful mold, which could lead to liability for adverse health effects and costs of remediation. When excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, mold growth may occur, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Some molds may produce airborne toxins or irritants. Concern about indoor exposure to mold has been increasing, as exposure to mold may cause a variety of adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic or other reactions. As a result, should our tenants or their employees or customers be exposed to mold at any of our properties we could be required to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold from the affected property. In addition, exposure to mold 23Table of Contentsby our tenants or others could subject us to liability if property damage or health concerns arise. If we were to become subject to significant mold-related liabilities, we could be materially and adversely affected. Insurance on our properties may not adequately cover all losses and uninsured losses could materially and adversely affect us. Our tenants are required to maintain liability and property insurance coverage for the properties they lease from us pursuant to triple-net leases. Pursuant to such leases, our tenants are required to name us (and any of our lenders that have a mortgage on the property leased by the tenant) as additional insureds on their liability policies and additional named insured and/or loss payee (or mortgagee, in the case of our lenders) on their property policies. All tenants are required to maintain casualty coverage and most carry limits at 100% of replacement cost. Depending on the location of the property, losses of a catastrophic nature, such as those caused by earthquakes and floods, may be covered by insurance policies that are held by our tenant with limitations such as large deductibles or co-payments that a tenant may not be able to meet. In addition, losses of a catastrophic nature, such as those caused by wind/hail, hurricanes, terrorism or acts of war, may be uninsurable or not economically insurable. In the event there is damage to our properties that is not covered by insurance and such properties are subject to recourse indebtedness, we will continue to be liable for the indebtedness, even if these properties are irreparably damaged. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations, and other factors, including terrorism or acts of war, may make any insurance proceeds we receive insufficient to repair or replace a property if it is damaged or destroyed. In that situation, the insurance proceeds received may not be adequate to restore our economic position with respect to the affected real property. Furthermore, in the event we experience a substantial or comprehensive loss of one of our properties, we may not be able to rebuild such property to its existing specifications without significant capital expenditures which may exceed any amounts received pursuant to insurance policies, as reconstruction or improvement of such a property would likely require significant upgrades to meet zoning and building code requirements. The loss of our capital investment in or anticipated future returns from our properties due to material uninsured losses could materially and adversely affect us. Compliance with the ADA and fire, safety and other regulations may require us to make unanticipated expenditures that materially and adversely affect us. Our properties are subject to the ADA. Under the ADA, all public accommodations must meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Compliance with the ADA requirements could require removal of access barriers and non-compliance could result in imposition of fines by the U.S. government or an award of damages to private litigants, or both. While our tenants are obligated by law to comply with the ADA and typically obligated under our leases and financing agreements to cover costs associated with compliance, if required changes involve greater expenditures than anticipated or if the changes must be made on a more accelerated basis than anticipated, the ability of our tenants to cover costs could be adversely affected. We could be required to expend our own funds to comply with the provisions of the ADA, which could materially and adversely affect us. In addition, we are required to operate our properties in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations, as they may be adopted by governmental agencies and bodies and become applicable to our properties. We may be required to make substantial capital expenditures to comply with those requirements and may be required to obtain approvals from various authorities with respect to our properties, including prior to acquiring a property or when undertaking renovations of any of our existing properties. There can be no assurance that existing laws and regulatory policies will not adversely affect us or the timing or cost of any future acquisitions or renovations, or that additional regulations will not be adopted that increase such delays or result in additional costs. Additionally, failure to comply with any of these requirements could result in the imposition of fines by governmental authorities or awards of damages to private litigants. While we intend to only acquire properties that we believe are currently in substantial compliance with all regulatory requirements, these requirements may change and new requirements may be imposed which would require significant unanticipated expenditures by us and could materially and adversely affect us. As a result of acquiring C corporations in carry-over basis transactions, we may inherit material tax liabilities and other tax attributes from such acquired corporations, and we may be required to distribute earnings and profits. From time to time, we have and may continue to acquire C corporations in transactions in which the basis of the corporations’ assets in our hands is determined by reference to the basis of the assets in the hands of the acquired corporations, or carry-over basis transactions. In May 2006, we acquired Shopko Stores, Inc. in a stock purchase and 24Table of Contentsimmediately thereafter dissolved such corporation. In December 2008, we revoked the election to treat Spirit Management Company, our former taxable REIT subsidiary, as a taxable REIT subsidiary for federal income tax purposes. In each such transaction, we acquired the assets of such corporations in a carry-over basis transaction for federal income tax purposes. In connection with the IPO, Redford Australian Investment Trust (“RAIT”), an Australian investment trust through which our non-U.S. investors indirectly owned shares of our common stock prior to the IPO, transferred substantially all of its assets (including shares of our common stock) to our company in exchange for newly issued shares of our common stock, and RAIT liquidated and distributed such shares to its owners. Such exchange of shares of our common stock held by RAIT for newly issued shares of our common stock was on a one-for-one basis. RAIT was treated as a C corporation for federal income tax purposes, and such transactions were intended to qualify as a tax-free reorganization for federal income tax purposes. We did not acquire any earnings and profits of RAIT as a result of such transactions. If we acquire any asset from a corporation that is or has been a C corporation in a transaction in which the basis of the asset in our hands is less than the fair market value of the asset, in each case determined at the time we acquired the asset, and we subsequently recognize gain on the disposition of the asset during the ten-year period (or the five-year period in the case of dispositions in 2012 and 2013) beginning on the date on which we acquired the asset, then we will be required to pay tax at the highest regular corporate tax rate on this gain to the extent of the excess of (1) the fair market value of the asset over (2) our adjusted basis in the asset, in each case determined as of the date on which we acquired the asset. Any taxes we pay as a result of such gain would reduce the amount available for distribution to our stockholders. The imposition of such tax may require us to forgo an otherwise attractive disposition of any assets we acquire from a C corporation in a carry-over basis transaction, and as a result may reduce the liquidity of our portfolio of investments. In addition, in such a carry-over basis transaction, we will succeed to any tax liabilities and earnings and profits of the acquired C corporation. To qualify as a REIT, we must distribute any non-REIT earnings and profits by the close of the taxable year in which such transaction occurs. Any adjustments to the acquired corporation’s income for taxable years ending on or before the date of the transaction, including as a result of an examination of the corporation’s tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”), could affect the calculation of the corporation’s earnings and profits. If the IRS were to determine that we acquired non-REIT earnings and profits from a corporation that we failed to distribute prior to the end of the taxable year in which the carry-over basis transaction occurred, we could avoid disqualification as a REIT by paying a “deficiency dividend.” Under these procedures, we generally would be required to distribute any such non-REIT earnings and profits to our stockholders within 90 days of the determination and pay a statutory interest charge at a specified rate to the IRS. Such a distribution would be in addition to the distribution of REIT taxable income necessary to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement and may require that we borrow funds to make the distribution even if the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for borrowings. In addition, payment of the statutory interest charge could materially and adversely affect us. Changes in accounting standards may materially and adversely affect us. From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), and the SEC, who create and interpret appropriate accounting standards, may change the financial accounting and reporting standards or their interpretation and application of these standards that will govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes could materially and adversely affect our reported financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in restating prior period financial statements. Similarly, these changes could materially and adversely affect our tenants’ reported financial condition or results of operations and affect their preferences regarding leasing real estate. The SEC is currently considering whether issuers in the United States should be required to prepare financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) instead of U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). IFRS is a comprehensive set of accounting standards promulgated by the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”), which are rapidly gaining worldwide acceptance. The SEC currently has not finalized the timeframe it expects that U.S. issuers would first report under the new standards. If IFRS is adopted, the potential issues associated with lease accounting, along with other potential changes associated with the adoption or convergence with IFRS, may materially and adversely affect us.Additionally, the FASB is considering various changes to GAAP, some of which may be significant, as part of a joint effort with the IASB to converge accounting standards. In particular, FASB has proposed accounting rules that would require companies to capitalize all leases on their balance sheets by recognizing a lessee’s rights and obligations. If the proposal is adopted in its current form, many companies that account for certain leases on an “off balance sheet” basis would be required to account for such leases “on balance sheet.” This change would remove many of the differences in the way companies account for owned property and leased property, and could have a material effect 25Table of Contentson various aspects of our tenants’ businesses, including their credit quality and the factors they consider in deciding whether to own or lease properties. If the proposal is adopted in its current form, it could cause companies that lease properties to prefer shorter lease terms in an effort to reduce the leasing liability required to be recorded on the balance sheet. The proposal could also make lease renewal options less attractive, because, under certain circumstances, the rule would require a tenant to assume that a renewal right will be exercised and accrue a liability relating to the longer lease term. In the future, we may choose to acquire properties or portfolios of properties through tax deferred contribution transactions, which could result in stockholder dilution and limit our ability to sell such assets. In the future we may acquire properties or portfolios of properties through tax deferred contribution transactions in exchange for partnership interests in the Operating Partnership, which may result in stockholder dilution. This acquisition structure may have the effect of, among other things, reducing the amount of tax depreciation we could deduct over the tax life of the acquired properties, and may require that we agree to protect the contributors’ ability to defer recognition of taxable gain through restrictions on our ability to dispose of the acquired properties and/or the allocation of partnership debt to the contributors to maintain their tax bases. These restrictions could limit our ability to sell an asset at a time, or on terms, that would be favorable absent such restrictions. Risks Related to Our IndebtednessWe have approximately $3.78 billion principal balance of indebtedness outstanding, which may expose us to the risk of default under our debt obligations. As of December 31, 2013, our total outstanding consolidated indebtedness was approximately $3.78 billion principal balance, of which $111.0 million (or approximately 3.0%) is variable-rate debt (we have entered into four amortizing interest rate swaps that effectively fixed the interest rates on a significant portion of this variable-rate debt at approximately 4.55%), and we may incur significant additional debt to finance future investment activities. In addition, we have a secured revolving Credit Facility with a borrowing capacity of up to $400.0 million, under which $30.0 million was drawn as of December 31, 2013 and $269.3 million remains available. Payments of principal and interest on borrowings may leave us with insufficient cash resources to meet our cash needs or make the distributions to our common stockholders necessary to maintain our REIT qualification. Our level of debt and the limitations imposed on us by our debt agreements could have significant adverse consequences, including the following: •our cash flow may be insufficient to meet our required principal and interest payments; •cash interest expense and financial covenants relating to our indebtedness may limit or eliminate our ability to make distributions to our common stockholders; •we may be unable to borrow additional funds as needed or on favorable terms, which could, among other things, adversely affect our ability to capitalize upon acquisition opportunities or meet operational needs; •we may be unable to refinance our indebtedness at maturity or the refinancing terms may be less favorable than the terms of our original indebtedness; •because a portion of our debt bears interest at variable rates, increases in interest rates could increase our interest expense; •we may be unable to hedge floating rate debt, counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under any hedge agreements we enter into, such agreements may not effectively hedge interest rate fluctuation risk, and, upon the expiration of any hedge agreements we enter into, we would be exposed to then-existing market rates of interest and future interest rate volatility; •we may be forced to dispose of properties, possibly on unfavorable terms or in violation of certain covenants to which we may be subject; •we may default on our obligations and the lenders or mortgagees may foreclose on our properties or our interests in the entities that own the properties that secure their loans and receive an assignment of rents and leases; •we may be restricted from accessing some of our excess cash flow after debt service if certain of our tenants fail to meet certain financial performance metric thresholds; •we may violate restrictive covenants in our loan documents, which would entitle the lenders to accelerate our debt obligations; and •our default under any loan with cross-default provisions could result in a default on other indebtedness. 26Table of ContentsThe occurrence of any of these events could materially and adversely affect us. Furthermore, foreclosures could create taxable income without accompanying cash proceeds, which could hinder our ability to meet the REIT distribution requirements imposed by the Code. Current market conditions could adversely affect our ability to refinance existing indebtedness or obtain additional financing for growth on acceptable terms or at all, which could materially and adversely affect us. Over the last few years, the credit markets have experienced significant price volatility, displacement and liquidity disruptions, including the bankruptcy, insolvency or restructuring of certain financial institutions. These circumstances have materially impacted liquidity in the financial markets, making financing terms for borrowers less attractive, and in certain cases, have resulted in the unavailability of various types of debt financing. As a result, we may be unable to obtain debt financing on favorable terms or at all or fully refinance maturing indebtedness with new indebtedness. Reductions in our available borrowing capacity or inability to obtain credit when required or when business conditions warrant could materially and adversely affect us. Furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. Higher interest rates on newly incurred debt may negatively impact us as well. If interest rates increase, our interest costs and overall costs of capital will increase, which could materially and adversely affect us. Total debt service for 2014 and 2015 are $86.7 million and $303.9 million, respectively. We expect to meet these repayment requirements primarily through net cash from operating activities. Some of our financing arrangements involve balloon payment obligations, which may materially and adversely affect us. Some of our financings require us to make a lump-sum or “balloon” payment at maturity. Our ability to make any balloon payment is uncertain and may depend on our ability to obtain additional financing or our ability to sell our properties. At the time the balloon payment is due, we may or may not be able to refinance the balloon payment on terms as favorable as the original loan or sell our properties at a price sufficient to make the balloon payment, if at all. If the balloon payment is refinanced at a higher rate, it will reduce or eliminate any income from our properties. Our inability to meet a balloon payment obligation, through refinancing or sale proceeds, or refinancing on less attractive terms could materially and adversely affect us. We have certain balloon maturities of $529.0 million in 2016. If we are unable to refinance these maturities or otherwise retire the indebtedness by that time, we could be materially adversely affected, and could be forced to relinquish the related collateral consisting of 177 properties subject to two master leases and two individual leases with Shopko/Pamida. Our debt financing agreements contain restrictions and covenants which may limit our ability to enter into or obtain funding for certain transactions, operate our business or make distributions to our common stockholders. The agreements governing our borrowings and indebtedness contain financial and other covenants with which we are or will be required to comply and that limit or will limit our ability to operate our business. These covenants, as well as any additional covenants to which we may be subject in the future because of additional borrowings and indebtedness, could cause us to have to forgo investment opportunities, reduce or eliminate distributions to our common stockholders or obtain financing that is more expensive than financing we could obtain if we were not subject to the covenants. In addition, the agreements may have cross default provisions, which provide that a default under one of our financing agreements would lead to a default on some or all of our debt financing agreements. If an event of default occurs under certain of our CMBS loans, if the master tenants at the properties, which secure the CMBS loans, fail to maintain certain EBITDAR ratios or if an uncured monetary default exists under the master leases, then a portion of or all of the cash which would otherwise be distributed to us may be restricted by the lenders and unavailable to us until the terms are cured or the debt refinanced. If the financial performance of the collateral for our Master Funding indebtedness fails to achieve certain financial performance criteria, then cash from those assets that would otherwise be distributed to us may be unavailable to us until the terms are cured or the debt refinanced. Such cash sweep triggering events have occurred previously and may be ongoing from time to time. The occurrence of these events limit the amount of cash available to us for use in our business and could limit or eliminate our ability to make distributions to our common stockholders. 27Table of ContentsThe covenants and other restrictions under our debt agreements affect, among other things, our ability to: •incur indebtedness; •create liens on assets; •sell or substitute assets; •modify certain terms of our leases; •manage our cash flows; and •make distributions to equity holders. Additionally, these restrictions may adversely affect our operating and financial flexibility and may limit our ability to respond to changes in our business or competitive environment, all of which may materially and adversely affect us. Risks Related to Our Organizational Structure Our charter and bylaws and Maryland law contain provisions that may delay, defer or prevent a change of control transaction, even if such a change in control may be in the interest of our stockholders, and as a result may depress the market price of our common stock. Our charter contains certain restrictions on ownership and transfer of our stock. Our charter contains various provisions that are intended to preserve our qualification as a REIT and, subject to certain exceptions, authorize our directors to take such actions as are necessary or appropriate to preserve our qualification as a REIT. For example, our charter prohibits the actual, beneficial or constructive ownership by any person of more than 9.8% in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of our common stock or more than 9.8% in value of the aggregate of the outstanding shares of all classes and series of our stock. Our board of directors, in its sole and absolute discretion, may exempt a person, prospectively or retroactively, from these ownership limits if certain conditions are satisfied. The restrictions on ownership and transfer of our stock may: •discourage a tender offer or other transactions or a change in management or of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or that our stockholders otherwise believe to be in their best interests; or •result in the transfer of shares acquired in excess of the restrictions to a trust for the benefit of a charitable beneficiary and, as a result, the forfeiture by the acquirer of the benefits of owning the additional shares. We could increase the number of authorized shares of stock, classify and reclassify unissued stock and issue stock without stockholder approval. Our board of directors, without stockholder approval, has the power under our charter to amend our charter to increase the aggregate number of shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we are authorized to issue, to authorize us to issue authorized but unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock and to classify or reclassify any unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock into one or more classes or series of stock and to set the terms of such newly classified or reclassified shares. As a result, we may issue one or more series or classes of common stock or preferred stock with preferences, dividends, powers and rights, voting or otherwise, that are senior to, or otherwise conflict with, the rights of our common stockholders. Although our board of directors has no such intention at the present time, it could establish a class or series of common stock or preferred stock that could, depending on the terms of such series, delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. Certain provisions of Maryland law could inhibit changes in control, which may discourage third parties from conducting a tender offer or seeking other change of control transactions that could involve a premium price for our common stock or that our stockholders otherwise believe to be in their best interest. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law (the “MGCL”) may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change of control under circumstances that otherwise could provide our common stockholders with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of such shares, including: •“business combination” provisions that, subject to certain limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our shares or an affiliate thereof or an affiliate or associate of ours who was the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 10% or more of the voting power of our then outstanding voting stock at any time within a two-year period immediately prior to the date in question) or any affiliate of an 28Table of Contentsinterested stockholder for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and thereafter impose fair price and/or supermajority and stockholder voting requirements on these combinations; and •“control share” provisions that provide that a holder of “control shares” of our company (defined as shares that, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of outstanding “control shares”) has no voting rights with respect to those shares except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares. As permitted by the MGCL, we have elected, by resolution of our board of directors, to opt out of the business combination provisions of the MGCL and, pursuant to a provision in our bylaws, to exempt any acquisition of our stock from the control share provisions of the MGCL. However, our board of directors may by resolution elect to repeal the exemption from the business combination provisions of the MGCL and may by amendment to our bylaws opt into the control share provisions of the MGCL at any time in the future, whether before or after an acquisition of control shares. Certain provisions of the MGCL permit our board of directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is currently provided in our charter or bylaws, to implement certain corporate governance provisions, some of which (for example, a classified board) are not currently applicable to us. These provisions may have the effect of limiting or precluding a third party from making an unsolicited acquisition proposal for us or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us under circumstances that otherwise could be in the best interests of our stockholders. Our charter contains a provision whereby we elect, at such time as we become eligible to do so, to be subject to the provisions of Title 3, Subtitle 8 of the MGCL relating to the filling of vacancies on our board of directors. Termination of the employment agreements with certain members of our senior management team could be costly and prevent a change in control of our company. The employment agreements with certain members of our senior management team provide that if their employment with us terminates under certain circumstances (including in connection with a change in control of our company), we may be required to pay them significant amounts of severance compensation, including gross-ups for tax liabilities, thereby making it costly to terminate their employment. Furthermore, these provisions could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control of our company that might involve a premium paid for shares of our common stock or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. Our board of directors may change our investment and financing policies without stockholder approval and we may become more highly leveraged, which may increase our risk of default under our debt obligations. Our investment and financing policies are exclusively determined by our board of directors. Accordingly, our stockholders do not control these policies. Further, our organizational documents do not limit the amount or percentage of indebtedness, funded or otherwise, that we may incur. Our board of directors may alter or eliminate our current policy on borrowing at any time without stockholder approval. If this policy changed, we could become more highly leveraged, which could result in an increase in our debt service. Higher leverage also increases the risk of default on our obligations. In addition, a change in our investment policies, including the manner in which we allocate our resources across our portfolio or the types of assets in which we seek to invest, may increase our exposure to interest rate risk, real estate market fluctuations and liquidity risk. Changes to our policies with regards to the foregoing could materially and adversely affect us. Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited. As permitted by Maryland law, our charter limits the liability of our directors and officers to us and our stockholders for money damages, except for liability resulting from: •actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or •active and deliberate dishonesty by the director or officer that was established by a final judgment as being material to the cause of action adjudicated. 29Table of ContentsAs a result, we and our stockholders have rights against our directors and officers that are more limited than might otherwise exist. Accordingly, in the event that actions taken in good faith by any of our directors or officers impede the performance of our company, your and our ability to recover damages from such director or officer will be limited. In addition, our charter authorizes us to obligate our company, and our bylaws require us, to indemnify our directors and officers for actions taken by them in those and certain other capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. We are a holding company with no direct operations and will rely on funds received from the Operating Partnership to pay liabilities. We are a holding company and conduct substantially all of our operations through the Operating Partnership. We do not have, apart from an interest in the Operating Partnership, any independent operations. As a result, we rely on distributions from the Operating Partnership to pay any dividends we might declare on shares of our common stock. We also rely on distributions from the Operating Partnership to meet any of our obligations, including any tax liability on taxable income allocated to us from the Operating Partnership. In addition, because we are a holding company, your claims as stockholders will be structurally subordinated to all existing and future liabilities and obligations (whether or not for borrowed money) of the Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries. Therefore, in the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization, our assets and those of the Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries will be able to satisfy the claims of our stockholders only after all of our and the Operating Partnership’s and its subsidiaries’ liabilities and obligations have been paid in full. We own directly or indirectly 100% of the interests in the Operating Partnership. However, in connection with our future acquisition of properties or otherwise, we may issue units of the Operating Partnership to third parties. Such issuances would reduce our ownership in the Operating Partnership. Because you will not directly own units of the Operating Partnership, you will not have any voting rights with respect to any such issuances or other partnership level activities of the Operating Partnership. Conflicts of interest could arise in the future between the interests of our stockholders and the interests of holders of units in the Operating Partnership, which may impede business decisions that could benefit our stockholders. Conflicts of interest could arise in the future as a result of the relationships between us and our affiliates, on the one hand, and the Operating Partnership or any future partner thereof, on the other. Our directors and officers have duties to our company under applicable Maryland law in connection with the management of our company. At the same time, one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, Spirit General OP Holdings, LLC, as the general partner of the Operating Partnership, has fiduciary duties and obligations to the Operating Partnership and its future limited partners under Delaware law and the partnership agreement of the Operating Partnership in connection with the management of the Operating Partnership. The fiduciary duties and obligations of Spirit General OP Holdings, LLC, as general partner of the Operating Partnership, and its future partners may come into conflict with the duties of our directors and officers to our company. Under the terms of the partnership agreement of the Operating Partnership, if there is a conflict between the interests of our stockholders on one hand and any future limited partners on the other, we will endeavor in good faith to resolve the conflict in a manner not adverse to either our stockholders or any future limited partners; provided, however, that for so long as we own a controlling interest in the Operating Partnership, any conflict that cannot be resolved in a manner not adverse to either our stockholders or any future limited partners shall be resolved in favor of our stockholders. The partnership agreement also provides that the general partner will not be liable to the Operating Partnership, its partners or any other person bound by the partnership agreement for monetary damages for losses sustained, liabilities incurred or benefits not derived by the Operating Partnership or any future limited partner, except for liability for the general partner’s intentional harm or gross negligence. Moreover, the partnership agreement provides that the Operating Partnership is required to indemnify the general partner and its members, managers, managing members, officers, employees, agents and designees from and against any and all claims that relate to the operations of the Operating Partnership, except (1) if the act or omission of the person was material to the matter giving rise to the action and either was committed in bad faith or was the result of active or deliberate dishonesty, (2) for any transaction for which the indemnified party received an improper personal benefit, in money, property or services or otherwise in violation or breach of any provision of the partnership agreement or (3) in the case of a criminal proceeding, if the indemnified person had reasonable cause to believe that the act or omission was unlawful. 30Table of ContentsRisks Related to Taxes and Our Status as a REIT Failure to qualify as a REIT would materially and adversely affect us and the value of our common stock.We believe that we have been organized and have operated in a manner that has allowed us to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, and we intend to continue operating in such a manner. We have not requested and do not plan to request a ruling from the IRS that we qualify as a REIT, and the statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are not binding on the IRS or any court. Therefore, we cannot assure you that we have qualified as a REIT, or that we will remain qualified as such in the future. If we lose our REIT status, we will face significant tax consequences that would substantially reduce our cash available for distribution to you for each of the years involved because: •we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates; •we also could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and increased state and local taxes; and •unless we are entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, we could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for four taxable years following the year during which we were disqualified. Any such corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce our cash available for, among other things, our operations and distributions to stockholders. In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will not be required to make distributions to our stockholders. As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT also could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and could materially and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. In order to qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy a number of requirements, including requirements regarding the ownership of our stock, requirements regarding the composition of our assets and a requirement that at least 95% of our gross income in any year must be derived from qualifying sources, such as “rents from real property.” Also, we must make distributions to stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding any net capital gains. In addition, legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may materially and adversely affect our investors, our ability to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes or the desirability of an investment in a REIT relative to other investments. Even if we qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we may be subject to some federal, state and local income, property and excise taxes on our income or property and, in certain cases, a 100% penalty tax, in the event we sell property as a dealer. In addition, our taxable REIT subsidiaries will be subject to income tax as regular corporations in the jurisdictions in which they operate. If the Operating Partnership fails to qualify as a disregarded entity or partnership for federal income tax purposes, we would cease to qualify as a REIT and suffer other adverse consequences. The Operating Partnership is currently treated as a disregarded entity for federal income tax purposes. If a property contributor or other third party is admitted to the Operating Partnership as a limited partner and, as a result, we cease to be the 100% owner (directly or indirectly) of the interests in the Operating Partnership, the Operating Partnership would cease to be treated as a disregarded entity, and instead would be treated as a partnership, for federal income tax purposes. As a disregarded entity or partnership, the Operating Partnership would not be subject to federal income tax on its income. Instead, for federal income tax purposes, if the Operating Partnership is treated as a disregarded entity, we would be treated as directly earning its income, or if the Operating Partnership is treated as a partnership, each of its partners, including us, would be allocated, and may be required to pay tax with respect to, such partner’s share of its income. We cannot assure you that the IRS will not challenge the status of the Operating Partnership or any other subsidiary partnership in which we own an interest as a disregarded entity or partnership for federal income tax purposes, or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the IRS were successful in treating the Operating Partnership or any such other subsidiary partnership as an entity taxable as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would fail to meet the gross income tests and certain of the asset tests applicable to REITs and, accordingly, we would likely cease to qualify as a REIT. Also, the failure of the Operating Partnership or any subsidiary partnerships to qualify as a disregarded entity or partnership could cause it to become subject to federal and state corporate income tax, which would reduce significantly the amount of cash available for debt service and for distribution to its partners, including us. 31Table of ContentsOur ownership of taxable REIT subsidiaries is subject to certain restrictions, and we will be required to pay a 100% penalty tax on certain income or deductions if our transactions with our taxable REIT subsidiaries are not conducted on arm’s length terms. We currently own an interest in one taxable REIT subsidiary and may acquire securities in additional taxable REIT subsidiaries in the future. A taxable REIT subsidiary is a corporation, other than a REIT, in which a REIT directly or indirectly holds stock, and that has made a joint election with such REIT to be treated as a taxable REIT subsidiary. If a taxable REIT subsidiary owns more than 35% of the total voting power or value of the outstanding securities of another corporation, such other corporation will also be treated as a taxable REIT subsidiary. Other than some activities relating to lodging and health care facilities, a taxable REIT subsidiary may generally engage in any business, including the provision of customary or non-customary services to tenants of its parent REIT. A taxable REIT subsidiary is subject to federal income tax as a regular C corporation. In addition, a 100% excise tax will be imposed on certain transactions between a taxable REIT subsidiary and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm’s length basis. A REIT’s ownership of securities of a taxable REIT subsidiary is not subject to the 5% or 10% asset tests applicable to REITs. Not more than 25% of the value of our total assets may be represented by securities (including securities of taxable REIT subsidiaries), other than those securities includable in the 75% asset test. We anticipate that the aggregate value of the stock and securities of any taxable REIT subsidiaries and other nonqualifying assets that we own will be less than 25% of the value of our total assets, and we will monitor the value of these investments to ensure compliance with applicable ownership limitations. In addition, we intend to structure our transactions with any taxable REIT subsidiaries that we own to ensure that they are entered into on arm’s length terms to avoid incurring the 100% excise tax described above. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to comply with the 25% limitation or to avoid application of the 100% excise tax discussed above. To maintain our REIT status, we may be forced to borrow funds during unfavorable market conditions, and the unavailability of such capital on favorable terms at the desired times, or at all, may cause us to curtail our investment activities and/or to dispose of assets at inopportune times, which could materially and adversely affect us. To qualify as a REIT, we generally must distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income each year, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding any net capital gains, and we will be subject to regular corporate income taxes on our undistributed taxable income to the extent that we distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and including any net capital gains, each year. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions paid by us in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. In order to maintain our REIT status and avoid the payment of income and excise taxes, we may need to borrow funds to meet the REIT distribution requirements even if the then prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings. These borrowing needs could result from, among other things, differences in timing between the actual receipt of cash and recognition of income for federal income tax purposes, or the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt or amortization payments. These sources, however, may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Our access to third-party sources of capital depends on a number of factors, including the market’s perception of our growth potential, our current debt levels, the market price of our common stock, and our current and potential future earnings. We cannot assure you that we will have access to such capital on favorable terms at the desired times, or at all, which may cause us to curtail our investment activities and/or to dispose of assets at inopportune times, and could materially and adversely affect us. The IRS may treat sale-leaseback transactions as loans, which could jeopardize our REIT status or require us to make an unexpected distribution.The IRS may take the position that specific sale-leaseback transactions that we treat as leases are not true leases for federal income tax purposes but are, instead, financing arrangements or loans. If a sale-leaseback transaction were so re-characterized, we might fail to satisfy the REIT asset tests, the income tests or distribution requirements and consequently lose our REIT status effective with the year of re-characterization unless we elect to make an additional distribution to maintain our REIT status. The primary risk relates to our loss of previously incurred depreciation expenses, which could affect the calculation of our REIT taxable income and could cause us to fail the REIT distribution test that requires a REIT to distribute at least 90% of its REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding any net capital gain. In this circumstance, we may elect to distribute an additional dividend of the increased taxable income so as not to fail the REIT distribution test. This distribution would be paid to all 32Table of Contentsstockholders at the time of declaration rather than the stockholders existing in the taxable year affected by the re-characterization. Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends. Income from “qualified dividends” payable to U.S. stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates are generally subject to tax at preferential rates. Dividends payable by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for the preferential tax rates applicable to qualified dividend income. Although these rules do not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends payable by REITs, to the extent that the preferential rates continue to apply to regular corporate qualified dividends, investors who are individuals, trusts and estates may perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could materially and adversely affect the value of the shares of REITs, including the per share trading price of our common stock. Beginning with the 2013 taxable year, the maximum tax rate (including the Medicare tax surcharge of 3.8%) on certain corporate dividends received by individuals is 23.8%, up from 15% in 2012, but less than the maximum income tax rate of 39.6% applicable to ordinary income. This rate differential continues to substantially reduce the so-called "double taxation" (that is, taxation at both the corporate and shareowner levels) that applies to non-REIT "C" corporations but does not generally apply to REITs. Dividends from a REIT do not qualify for the favorable tax rate applicable to dividends from non-REIT "C" corporations unless the dividends are attributable to income that has already been subjected to the corporate income tax, such as income from a prior year that the REIT did not distribute and dividend income received by the REIT from a taxable REIT subsidiary or other fully taxable "C" corporation. Although REITs, unlike non-REIT “C” corporations, have the ability to designate certain dividends as capital gain dividends subject to the favorable rates applicable to capital gain, the application of reduced dividend rates to non-REIT “C” corporation dividends may still cause individual investors to view stock in non-REIT “C” corporations as more attractive than shares in REITs, which may negatively affect the value of our shares.The tax imposed on REITs engaging in “prohibited transactions” may limit our ability to engage in transactions which would be treated as sales for federal income tax purposes. A REIT’s net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% penalty tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. Although we do not intend to hold any properties that would be characterized as held for sale to customers in the ordinary course of our business, unless a sale or disposition qualifies under certain statutory safe harbors, such characterization is a factual determination and no guarantee can be given that the IRS would agree with our characterization of our properties or that we will always be able to make use of the available safe harbors. Complying with REIT requirements may affect our profitability and may force us to liquidate or forgo otherwise attractive investments. To qualify as a REIT, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the nature and diversification of our assets, the sources of our income and the amounts we distribute to our stockholders. We may be required to liquidate or forgo otherwise attractive investments in order to satisfy the asset and income tests or to qualify under certain statutory relief provisions. We also may be required to make distributions to stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. As a result, having to comply with the distribution requirement could cause us to: (1) sell assets in adverse market conditions; (2) borrow on unfavorable terms; or (3) distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions, capital expenditures or repayment of debt. Accordingly, satisfying the REIT requirements could materially and adversely affect us. Moreover, if we are compelled to liquidate our investments to meet any of these asset, income or distribution tests, or to repay obligations to our lenders, we may be unable to comply with one or more of the requirements applicable to REITs or may be subject to a 100% tax on any resulting gain if such sales constitute prohibited transactions. Legislative or other actions affecting REITs could have a negative effect on us. The rules dealing with federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the IRS and the U.S. Department of the Treasury. Changes to the tax laws, with or without retroactive application, could materially and adversely affect our investors or us. We cannot predict how changes in the tax laws might affect our investors or us. New legislation, Treasury Regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly and negatively affect our ability to qualify as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification. 33Table of ContentsRisks related to the market price of our common stockThe market price and trading volume of shares of our common stock may be adversely impacted by various factors.The market price of shares of our common stock may fluctuate widely. In addition, the trading volume in shares of our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the market price or trading volume of shares of our common stock include:•actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results or distributions or those of our competitors;•publication of research reports about us, our competitors or the real estate industry;•increases in prevailing interest rates that lead purchasers of shares of our common stock to demand a higher yield;•adverse market reaction to any additional indebtedness we incur or equity securities we or the Operating Partnership issue in the future;•additions or departures of key management personnel;•changes in our credit ratings;•the financial condition, performance and prospects of our tenants; and•the realization of any of the other risk factors presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.We may issue additional shares of capital stock and the Operating Partnership may issue equity interests without stockholder approval, which may dilute stockholder investment.The Company may issue shares of our common stock, preferred stock, or other equity securities without stockholder approval, including the issuance of shares to satisfy REIT dividend distribution requirements. Similarly, the Operating Partnership may offer its equity interests for contributions of cash or property without approval by the Company’s stockholders. In general, any equity interests of the Operating Partnership issued to third parties would be exchangeable for cash or, at our election, shares of our common stock at specified ratios set when equity interests in the Operating Partnership are issued. Existing security holders have no preemptive rights to acquire any of these securities, and any issuance of equity securities by us or the Operating Partnership may dilute stockholder investment.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None.