D. Risk factors Some of the following risks relate principally to the industry in which we operate and our business in general. Other risks relate principally to the securities market and ownership of our common stock. The occurrence of any of the events described in this section could significantly and negatively affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash available for dividends or the trading price of our common stock. Industry - - Specific Risk Factors Charterhire rates for drybulk carriers are volatile and may decrease in the future, which would adversely affect our earnings. The drybulk shipping industry is cyclical with attendant volatility in charterhire rates and profitability. The degree of charterhire rate volatility among different types of drybulk carriers has varied widely. Although charterhire rates decreased slightly during 2005 and the first half of 2006, since July 2006, charter rates have risen sharply and are currently near their historical highs reached during October and November of 2007. Charterhire rates for Panamax and Capesize drybulk carriers have declined from their historically high levels. Because we generally charter our vessels pursuant to short-term time charters, we are exposed to changes in spot market rates for drybulk carriers and such changes may affect our earnings and the value of our drybulk carriers at any given time. We may be unable to successfully charter our vessels in the future or renew existing charters at rates sufficient to allow us to meet our obligations or to pay dividends to our stockholders. Because the factors affecting the supply and demand for vessels are outside of our control and are unpredictable, the nature, timing, direction and degree of changes in industry conditions are also unpredictable. Factors that influence demand for vessel capacity include: · demand for and production of drybulk products, · global and regional economic and political conditions, · the distance drybulk is to be moved by sea, and · changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns. The factors that influence the supply of vessel capacity include: · the number of new building deliveries, · port and canal congestion, · the scrapping rate of older vessels, · vessel casualties, and · the number of vessels that are out of service. 6 In addition to the prevailing and anticipated freight rates, factors that affect the rate of newbuilding, scrapping and laying-up include newbuilding prices, secondhand vessel values in relation to scrap prices, costs of bunkers and other operating costs, costs associated with classification society surveys, normal maintenance and insurance coverage, the efficiency and age profile of the existing fleet in the market and government and industry regulation of maritime transportation practices, particularly environmental protection laws and regulations. The factors influencing the supply of and demand for shipping capacity are outside of our control, and we may not be able to correctly assess the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions. We anticipate that the future demand for our drybulk carriers will be dependent upon continued economic growth in the world's economies, including China and India, seasonal and regional changes in demand, changes in the capacity of the global drybulk carrier fleet and the sources and supply of drybulk cargo to be transported by sea. The capacity of the global drybulk carrier fleet seems likely to increase and economic growth may not continue. Adverse economic, political, social or other developments could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. The market values of our vessels may decrease, which could limit the amount of funds that we can borrow under our credit facility. The fair market values of our vessels have generally experienced high volatility. The market prices for secondhand Panamax and Capesize drybulk carriers have declined from historically high levels. You should expect the market value of our vessels to fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry and prevailing charterhire rates, competition from other shipping companies and other modes of transportation, types, sizes and age of vessels, applicable governmental regulations and the cost of newbuildings. If the market value of our fleet declines, we may not be able to draw down the full amount of our credit facility and we may not be able to obtain other financing or incur debt on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. The market values of our vessels may decrease, which could cause us to breach covenants in our credit facility and adversely affect our operating results. If the market values of our vessels decrease and such decrease is more than temporary, we may breach some of the covenants contained in the financing agreements relating to our indebtedness at the time, including covenants in our credit facilities. Under our credit facility, the Company is required to hold bank deposits which are used to fund the loan installments when due. The funds may only be used for purposes of loan repayments and are shown on the Company’s balance sheet as restricted cash. Restricted cash also includes additional minimum cash deposits required to be maintained with certain banks under our borrowing arrangements. 7 If we do breach such covenants and we are unable to remedy the relevant breach, our lenders could accelerate our debt and foreclose on our fleet. In addition, if the book value of a vessel is impaired due to unfavorable market conditions or a vessel is sold at a price below its book value, we would incur a loss that could adversely affect our operating results. World events could affect our results of operations and financial condition. Terrorist attacks such as those in New York on September 11, 2001 and in London on July 7, 2005 and the continuing response of the United States to these attacks, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks in the United States or elsewhere, continue to cause uncertainty in the world's financial markets and may affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The continuing conflict in Iraq may lead to additional acts of terrorism and armed conflict around the world, which may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. These uncertainties could also adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. In the past, political conflicts have also resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Arabian Gulf region. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our operating results, revenues and costs. Terrorist attacks, such as the October 2002 attack on the VLCC Limburg, a vessel not related to us, may in the future also negatively affect our operations and financial condition and directly impact our vessels or our customers. Future terrorist attacks could result in increased volatility of the financial markets in the United States and globally and could result in an economic recession affecting the United States or the entire world. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our revenues and costs. Our revenues are subject to seasonal fluctuations, which could affect our operating results and the amount of available cash with which we can pay dividends. We operate our vessels in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand and, as a result, in charterhire rates. This seasonality may result in quarter-to-quarter volatility in our operating results, which could affect the amount of dividends that we pay to our stockholders from quarter to quarter. The drybulk carrier market is typically stronger in the fall and winter months in anticipation of increased consumption of coal and other raw materials in the northern hemisphere during the winter months. In addition, unpredictable weather patterns in these months tend to disrupt vessel scheduling and supplies of certain commodities. As a result, our revenues have historically been weaker during the fiscal quarters ended June 30 and September 30, and, conversely, our revenues have historically been stronger in fiscal quarters ended December 31 and March 31. This seasonality may adversely affect our operating results and cash available for distribution to our stockholders as dividends in the future. 8 Rising fuel prices may adversely affect our profits. While we do not bear the cost of fuel (bunkers) under our time charters, fuel is a significant, if not the largest, expense in our shipping operations when vessels are under spot charter. Changes in the price of fuel may adversely affect our profitability. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil-producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. Further, fuel may become much more expensive in the future, which may reduce the profitability and competitiveness of our business versus other forms of transportation, such as truck or rail. We are subject to international safety regulations and the failure to comply with these regulations may subject us to increased liability, may adversely affect our insurance coverage and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. Our business and the operation of our vessels are materially affected by government regulation in the form of international conventions, national, state and local laws and regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which the vessels operate, as well as in the country or countries of their registration. Because such conventions, laws, and regulations are often revised, we cannot predict the ultimate cost of complying with such conventions, laws and regulations or the impact thereof on the resale prices or useful lives of our vessels. Additional conventions, laws and regulations may be adopted which could limit our ability to do business or increase the cost of our doing business and which may materially adversely affect our operations. We are required by various governmental and quasi- governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses, certificates, and financial assurances with respect to our operations. The operation of our vessels is affected by the requirements set forth in the United Nations' International Maritime Organization's International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and Pollution Prevention, or “ISM Code.” The ISM Code requires shipowners, ship managers and bareboat charterers to develop and maintain an extensive “Safety Management System” that includes the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for safe operation and describing procedures for dealing with emergencies. The failure of a shipowner or bareboat charterer to comply with the ISM Code may subject it to increased liability, may invalidate existing insurance or decrease available insurance coverage for the affected vessels and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. If we are subject to increased liability for noncompliance or if our insurance coverage is adversely impacted as a result of noncompliance, we may have less cash available for distribution to our stockholders as dividends. If any of our vessels is denied access to, or is detained in, certain ports, this may decrease our revenues. 9 Increased inspection procedures and tighter import and export controls could increase costs and disrupt our business. International shipping is subject to various security and customs inspection and related procedures in countries of origin and destination. Inspection procedures may result in the seizure of contents of our vessels, delays in the loading, offloading or delivery and the levying of customs duties, fines or other penalties against us. It is possible that changes to inspection procedures could impose additional financial and legal obligations on us. Changes to inspection procedures could also impose additional costs and obligations on our customers and may, in certain cases, render the shipment of certain types of cargo uneconomical or impractical. Any such changes or developments may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Maritime claimants could arrest one or more of our vessels, which could interrupt our cash flow. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a claimant may seek to obtain security for its claim by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our cash flow and require us to pay large sums of money to have the arrest or attachment lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the “sister ship” theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant's maritime lien and any “associated” vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could attempt to assert “sister ship” liability against one vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another of our vessels. Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency, resulting in a loss of earnings. A government could requisition one or more of our vessels for title or for hire. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes her owner, while requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes her charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during periods of war or emergency, although governments may elect to requisition vessels in other circumstances. Although we would be entitled to compensation in the event of a requisition of one or more of our vessels, the amount and timing of payment would be uncertain. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels may negatively impact our revenues and reduce the amount of cash we have available for distribution as dividends to our stockholders. 10 An economic slowdown in the Asia Pacific region could materially reduce the amount and/or profitability of our business. A significant number of the port calls made by our vessels involve the loading or discharging of raw materials and semi-finished products in ports in the Asia Pacific region. As a result, a negative change in economic conditions in any Asia Pacific country, particularly in China, may have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations, as well as our future prospects. In particular, in recent years, China has been one of the world’s fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product. Such growth may not be sustained and the Chinese economy may experience contraction in the future. Moreover, any slowdown in the economies of the United States of America, the European Union or certain Asian countries may adversely effect economic growth in China and elsewhere. Our business, financial position and results of operations, as well as our future prospects, will likely be materially and adversely affected by an economic downturn in any of these countries. Changes in the economic and political environment in China and policies adopted by the government to regulate its economy may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, in such respects as structure, government involvement, level of development, growth rate, capital reinvestment, allocation of resources, rate of inflation and balance of payments position. Prior to 1978, the Chinese economy was a planned economy. Since 1978, increasing emphasis has been placed on the utilization of market forces in the development of the Chinese economy. Annual and five-year State Plans are adopted by the Chinese government in connection with the development of the economy. Although state-owned enterprises still account for a substantial portion of the Chinese industrial output, in general, the Chinese government is reducing the level of direct control that it exercises over the economy through State Plans and other measures. There is an increasing level of freedom and autonomy in areas such as allocation of resources, production, pricing and management and a gradual shift in emphasis to a “market economy” and enterprise reform. Limited price reforms were undertaken, with the result that prices for certain commodities are principally determined by market forces. Many of the reforms are unprecedented or experimental and may be subject to revision, change or abolition based upon the outcome of such experiments. The Chinese government may not continue to pursue a policy of economic reform. The level of imports to and exports from China could be adversely affected by changes to these economic reforms by the Chinese government, as well as by changes in political, economic and social conditions or other relevant policies of the Chinese government, such as changes in laws, regulations or export and import restrictions. A reduction in the level of commodities imported into and exported from China would reduce the demand for drybulk carrier capacity and the drybulk charter rates, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 11 Company - - Specific Risk Factors We are dependent on time charters in a volatile shipping industry and a decline in charterhire rates would affect our results of operations and ability to pay dividends. We charter our vessels primarily pursuant to long-term or short-term time charters. The short-term time charter market is highly competitive and spot market charterhire rates (which affect time charter rates) may fluctuate significantly based upon available charters and the supply of, and demand for, seaborne shipping capacity. While our focus on the short-term time charter market may enable us to benefit in periods of increasing charterhire rates, we must consistently renew our charters and this dependence makes us vulnerable to declining charter rates. As a result of the volatility in the drybulk carrier charter market, we may not be able to employ our vessels upon the termination of their existing charters at their current charterhire rates. The drybulk carrier charter market is volatile, and in the past short-term time charter and spot market charter rates for drybulk carriers have declined below operating costs of vessels. Future charterhire rates may not enable us to operate our vessels profitably or to pay you dividends. Our earnings may be adversely affected if we are not able to take advantage of favorable charter rates. We charter our drybulk carriers to customers primarily pursuant to long-term or short-term (spot) time charters, which generally last from several days to several weeks, and long-term time charters, which can last up to several years. We may in the future extend the charter periods for additional vessels in our fleet. Our vessels that are committed to longer -term charters may not be available for employment on short-term charters during periods of increasing short-term charter hire rates when these charters may be more profitable than long-term charters. Investment in derivative instruments such as freight forward agreements could result in losses. From time to time, we may take positions in derivative instruments including freight forward agreements, or FFAs. FFAs and other derivative instruments may be used to hedge a vessel owner's exposure to the charter market by providing for the sale of a contracted charter rate along a specified route and period of time. Upon settlement, if the contracted charter rate is less than the average of the rates, as reported by an identified index, for the specified route and period, the seller of the FFA is required to pay the buyer an amount equal to the difference between the contracted rate and the settlement rate, multiplied by the number of days in the specified period. Conversely, if the contracted rate is greater than the settlement rate, the buyer is required to pay the seller the settlement sum. If we take positions in FFAs or other derivative instruments and do not correctly anticipate charter rate movements over the specified route and time period, we could suffer losses in the settling or termination of the FFA. This could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. 12 We depend entirely on Cardiff to manage and charter our fleet. We currently have two employees, our Chief Executive Officer who also acts as the Interim Chief Financial Officer, and our Internal Auditor. Following the resignation of our Chief Financial Officer on May 29, 2007, we are seeking to employ a Chief Financial Officer. We have no plans to hire additional employees. We subcontract the commercial and technical management of our fleet, including crewing, maintenance and repair to Cardiff Marine Inc. (“Cardiff”), an affiliated company. 70% of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Cardiff is owned by a foundation which is controlled by Mr. Economou, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and a director of our Company. The remaining 30% of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Cardiff is owned by a company controlled by the sister of Mr. Economou. The loss of Cardiff’s services or its failure to perform its obligations to us could materially and adversely affect the results of our operations. Although we may have rights against Cardiff if it defaults on its obligations to us, you will have no recourse against Cardiff. Further, we are required to seek approval from our lenders to change our manager. Cardiff is a privately held company and there is little or no publicly available information about it. The ability of Cardiff to continue providing services for our benefit will depend in part on its own financial strength. Circumstances beyond our control could impair Cardiff’s financial strength, and because it is privately held it is unlikely that information about its financial strength would become public unless Cardiff began to default on its obligations. As a result, an investor in our shares might have little advance warning of problems affecting Cardiff, even though these problems could have a material adverse effect on us. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer has affiliations with Cardiff which could create conflicts of interest. Our majority shareholder is controlled by Mr. George Economou who controls two companies that, in aggregate, own 29.7% of us and a foundation that owns 70% of Cardiff. Mr. Economou is also our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Interim Chief Financial Officer and a director of our Company. These responsibilities and relationships could create conflicts of interest between us, on the one hand, and Cardiff, on the other hand. These conflicts may arise in connection with the chartering, purchase, sale and operations of the vessels in our fleet versus drybulk carriers managed by other companies affiliated with Cardiff and Mr. Economou. In particular, Cardiff may give preferential treatment to vessels that are beneficially owned by related parties because Mr. Economou and members of his family may receive greater economic benefits. 13 Companies affiliated with Cardiff own and may acquire vessels that compete with our fleet which may create conflicts of interest between Cardiff as our fleet manager and us. Erato Owning Company Limited is a company affiliated with Cardiff that owns a Capesize drybulk carrier. Mentor Owning Company Limited and Iris Owning Company Limited are companies affiliated with Cardiff that each own a Handymax drybulk carrier. The three vessels owned by those companies, or the “Bareboat Charter Vessels,” are currently employed under bareboat charters that end in September 2014. Subject to the obligations of Mr. Economou set forth in a letter agreement between him and the Company to use commercially reasonable efforts to cause the sale of the Bareboat Charter Vessels, and to give us a right of first refusal to acquire them, when the Bareboat Charter Vessels are redelivered to the owners, they may be managed by Cardiff in competition with our fleet. In addition, Cardiff’s affiliates may acquire additional drybulk carriers in the future, subject to a right of first refusal that Mr. Economou has granted to us in that letter agreement. Furthermore, Panatrade Shipping and Management S.A., Calypso Marine Corp., Oil Transport Investments Limited, Innovative Investments Limited and Ambassador Shipping Corporation, companies affiliated with Cardiff, each own a Capesize drybulk carrier. These vessels also could be in competition with our fleet and Cardiff and other companies affiliated with Cardiff might be faced with conflicts of interest with respect to their own interests and their obligations to us. Cardiff may give preferential treatment to other companies affiliated with it, which may adversely affect our results of operations. We may not be able to pay dividends. Our current dividend policy is to declare quarterly distributions to stockholders of $0.20 per share by each January, April, July and October. The timing and amount of dividends will depend on our earnings, financial condition, cash requirements and availability, restrictions in our loan agreements, the provisions of Marshall Islands law affecting the payment of dividends and other factors. The declaration and payment of dividends, if any, will always be subject to the discretion of our board of directors. The timing and amount of any dividends declared will depend on, among other things, our earnings, financial condition and cash requirements and availability, our ability to obtain debt and equity financing on acceptable terms as contemplated by our growth strategy and provisions of Marshall Islands law affecting the payment of dividends. The international drybulk shipping industry is highly volatile, and we cannot predict with certainty the amount of cash, if any, that will be available for distribution as dividends in any period. Also, there may be a high degree of variability from period to period in the amount of cash that is available for the payment of dividends. We may incur expenses or liabilities or be subject to other circumstances in the future that reduce or eliminate the amount of cash that we have available for distribution as dividends, including as a result of the risks described in this annual report. Our growth strategy contemplates that we will finance the acquisition of additional vessels through a combination of debt and equity financing on terms acceptable to us. If financing is not available to us on acceptable terms, our board of directors may determine to finance or refinance acquisitions with cash from operations, which would reduce or even eliminate the amount of cash available for the payment of dividends. 14 Marshall Islands law generally prohibits the payment of dividends other than from surplus (retained earnings and the excess of consideration received for the sale of shares above the par value of the shares) or while a company is insolvent or would be rendered insolvent by the payment of such a dividend. We may not have sufficient surplus in the future to pay dividends. We may be unable to pay dividends in the amounts contemplated by our dividend policy, or at all. We may have difficulty managing our planned growth properly. We intend to continue to grow our fleet. Our future growth will primarily depend on our ability to: · locate and acquire suitable vessels, · identify and consummate acquisitions or joint ventures, · enhance our customer base, · manage our expansion, and · obtain required financing on acceptable terms. Growing any business by acquisition presents numerous risks, such as undisclosed liabilities and obligations, the possibility that indemnification agreements will be unenforceable or insufficient to cover potential losses and difficulties associated with imposing common standards, controls, procedures and policies; obtaining additional qualified personnel; managing relationships with customers and integrating newly acquired assets and operations into existing infrastructure. We may be unable to successfully execute our growth plans or we may incur significant expenses and losses in connection with our future growth which would have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our credit facilities impose operating and financial restrictions on us. In addition to certain financial covenants relating to the Company’s financial position, operating performance and liquidity, the following restrictions limit our ability to, among other things: · pay dividends to investors or make capital expenditures if we do not repay amounts drawn under the credit facilities, if there is a default under the credit facilities or if the payment of the dividend or capital expenditure would result in a default or breach of a loan covenant, · incur additional indebtedness, including through the issuance of guarantees, · change the flag, class or management of our vessels, · create liens on our assets, 15 · sell or otherwise change the ownership of our vessels, · merge or consolidate with, or transfer all or substantially all our assets to, another person, · drop below certain minimum cash deposits, as defined in our credit facilities, · maintain a place of business in the United States or the United Kingdom, · receive dividends from certain subsidiaries, and/or · enter into a new line of business. Therefore, we may need to seek permission from our lenders in order to engage in some corporate actions. Our lenders' interests may be different from ours and we may not be able to obtain our lenders' permission when needed. This may limit our ability to pay dividends to you, finance our future operations, make acquisitions or pursue business opportunities. Our loan agreements may prohibit or impose certain conditions on the payment of dividends to investors. Under our credit facilities we are restricted in our payments of dividends to investors. For example, we agreed that we would not pay dividends in 2006 in excess of $18.0 million; however, we were permitted to request our lender’s consent for additional dividend payments. On November 15, 2006 we requested and received consent from our lender for the payment of third-quarter dividends of $7.0 million, which exceeded the $18.0 million threshold for 2006. Under our credit facility in 2007, we have agreed not to pay dividends to investors in any year that exceed 50% of our net income for that year, as evidenced by the relevant annual audited financial statements. Purchasing and operating secondhand vessels may result in increased operating costs and reduced fleet utilization. While we have the right to inspect previously owned vessels prior to our purchase of them and we intend to inspect all secondhand vessels that we acquire in the future, such an inspection does not provide us with the same knowledge about their condition that we would have if these vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us. A secondhand vessel may have conditions or defects that we were not aware of when we bought the vessel and which may require us to incur costly repairs to the vessel. These repairs may require us to put a vessel into drydock which would reduce our fleet utilization. Furthermore, we usually do not receive the benefit of warranties on secondhand vessels. 16 In the highly competitive international shipping industry, we may not be able to compete for charters with new entrants or established companies with greater resources and, as a result, we may be unable to employ our vessels profitably. We employ our vessels in a highly competitive market that is capital-intensive and highly fragmented. Competition arises primarily from other vessel owners, some of whom have substantially greater resources than we do. Competition for the transportation of drybulk cargo by sea is intense and depends on price, location, size, age, condition and the acceptability of the vessel and its operators to the charterers. Due in part to the highly fragmented market, competitors with greater resources could enter the drybulk shipping industry and operate larger fleets through consolidations or acquisitions and may be able to offer lower charter rates and higher quality vessels than we are able to offer. If we are unable to successfully compete with other drybulk shipping companies, this would have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We may be unable to attract and retain key management personnel and other employees in the shipping industry, which may negatively impact the effectiveness of our management and results of operations. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of our management team. The loss of any of these individuals, difficulty in hiring and retaining personnel could adversely affect our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We have entered into a contract for the services of our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and interim Chief Financial Officer, George Economou. Our success will depend upon our ability to retain key members of our management team and to hire new members as may be necessary. The loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business prospects and financial condition. Difficulty in hiring and retaining replacement personnel could have a similar effect. We do not currently, nor do we intend to, maintain “key man” life insurance on any of our officers. Risks associated with operating ocean-going vessels could affect our business and reputation, which could adversely affect our revenues and stock price. The operation of ocean-going vessels carries inherent risks. These risks include the possibility of: · marine disaster, · environmental accidents, · cargo and property losses or damage, · business interruptions caused by mechanical failure, human error, war, terrorism, political action in various countries, labor strikes or adverse weather conditions, and · piracy. 17 The involvement of our vessels in an environmental disaster may harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator. Any of these circumstances or events could increase our costs or lower our revenues. The shipping industry has inherent operational risks that may not be adequately covered by our insurance. We procure insurance for our fleet against risks commonly insured against by vessel owners and operators. Our current insurance includes hull and machinery insurance, war risks insurance and protection and indemnity insurance (which includes environmental damage and pollution insurance). We may not be adequately insured against all risks or our insurers may not pay a particular claim. Even if our insurance coverage is adequate to cover our losses, we may not be able to timely obtain a replacement vessel in the event of a loss. Furthermore, in the future, we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates for our fleet. We may also be subject to calls, or premiums, in amounts based not only on our own claim records but also the claim records of all other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive indemnity insurance coverage for tort liability. Our insurance policies also contain deductibles, limitations and exclusions which, although we believe are standard in the shipping industry, may nevertheless increase our costs. The operation of drybulk carriers has certain unique operational risks. The operation of certain ship types, such as drybulk carriers, has certain unique risks. With a drybulk carrier, the cargo itself and its interaction with the ship can be a risk factor. By their nature, drybulk cargoes are often heavy, dense, easily shifted, and react badly to water exposure. In addition, drybulk carriers are often subjected to battering treatment during unloading operations with grabs, jackhammers (to pry encrusted cargoes out of the hold), and small bulldozers. This treatment may cause damage to the vessel. Vessels damaged due to treatment during unloading procedures may be more susceptible to breach to the sea. Hull breaches in drybulk carriers may lead to the flooding of the vessels holds. If a drybulk carrier suffers flooding in its forward holds, the bulk cargo may become so dense and waterlogged that its pressure may buckle the vessel's bulkheads leading to the loss of a vessel. If we are unable to adequately maintain our vessels we may be unable to prevent these events. Any of these circumstances or events could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. In addition, the loss of any of our vessels could harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator. If our vessels fail to maintain their class certification and/or fail any annual survey, intermediate survey, dry-docking or special survey, that vessel would be unable to carry cargo, thereby reducing our revenues and profitability and violating certain covenants under our credit facility. 18 The hull and machinery of every commercial vessel must be classed by a classification society authorized by its country of registry. The classification society certifies that a vessel is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of the vessel and the Safety of Life at Sea Convention (“SOLAS”). All of our vessels are certified as being “in class” by all the major Classification Societies (e.g., American Bureau of Shipping, Lloyd’s Register of Shipping). A vessel must undergo annual surveys, intermediate surveys, dry-dockings and special surveys. In lieu of a special survey, a vessel’s machinery may be on a continuous survey cycle, under which the machinery would be surveyed periodically over a five-year period. Every vessel is also required to be dry-docked every two to three years for inspection of the underwater parts of such vessel. If any vessel does not maintain its class and/or fails any annual survey, intermediate survey, dry-docking or special survey, the vessel will be unable to carry cargo between ports and will be unemployable and uninsurable which could cause us to be in violation of certain covenants in our credit facility. Any such inability to carry cargo or be employed, or any such violation of covenants, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. That status could cause us to be in violation of certain covenants in our credit facility. The aging of our fleet may result in increased operating costs in the future, which could adversely affect our earnings. In general, the cost of maintaining a vessel in good operating condition increases with the age of the vessel. As of December 31, 2007, the 38 vessels in our fleet had an average age of 8.0 years. Although during the year ended 2007 our fleet age dropped significantly, in general terms, as our fleet ages we will incur increased costs. Older vessels are typically less fuel efficient and more costly to maintain than more recently constructed vessels due to improvements in engine technology. Cargo insurance rates increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers. Governmental regulations and safety or other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may also require expenditures for alterations or the addition of new equipment to our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which our vessels may engage. We cannot assure you that, as our vessels age, market conditions will justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. Because we generate all of our revenues in dollars but incur a significant portion of our expenses in other currencies, exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. 19 We generate all of our revenues in dollars but we incur a portion of our expenses in currencies other than the dollar. This difference could lead to fluctuations in net income due to changes in the value of the dollar relative to the other currencies, in particular the Euro. Expenses incurred in foreign currencies against which the dollar falls in value can increase, decreasing our net income. For example, between January 1, 2007 and December 31, 2007, the value of the dollar declined by approximately 9.5% as compared to the Euro. Further declines in the value of the dollar could lead to higher expenses payable by us. We may have to pay tax on United States source income, which would reduce our earnings. Under the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or the Code, 50% of the gross shipping income of a vessel-owning or chartering corporation, such as ourselves and our subsidiaries, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States may be subject to a 4% United States federal income tax without allowance for any deductions, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder. We expect that we and each of our subsidiaries qualify for this statutory tax exemption and we have taken and intend to continue to take this position for United States federal income tax return reporting purposes. However, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause us to lose the benefit of this tax exemption and thereby become subject to United States federal income tax on our United States source income. Due to the factual nature of the issues involved, it is possible that our tax-exempt status or that of any of our subsidiaries may change. If we or our subsidiaries are not entitled to this exemption under Section 883 for any taxable year, we or our subsidiaries could be subjected for those years to an effective 2% (i.e., 50% of 4%) United States federal income tax on United States-source gross shipping income. The imposition of this taxation could have a negative effect on our business and would result in decreased earnings available for distribution to our shareholders. For the 2007 taxable year, we estimate that our maximum United States federal income tax liability would be $1.13 million if we were to be subject to this taxation. Our vessels may suffer damage and we may face unexpected drydocking costs, which could adversely affect our cash flow and financial condition. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a drydocking facility. The costs of drydock repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. The loss of earnings while our vessels are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease our earnings and reduce the amount of cash that we have available for dividends. We may not have insurance that is sufficient to cover all or any of these costs or losses and may have to pay drydocking costs not covered by our insurance. 20 We are a holding company, and we depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us in order to satisfy our financial obligations and to make dividend payments. We are a holding company and our subsidiaries, which are all wholly-owned by us either directly or indirectly, conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. We have no significant assets other than the equity interests in our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to make dividend payments depends on our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. Under our credit facilities, we are restricted in our payments of dividends. If we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries, our board of directors may exercise its discretion not to declare or pay dividends. We do not intend to obtain funds from other sources to pay dividends. In addition, the declaration and payment of dividends will depend on the provisions of Marshall Islands law affecting the payment of dividends. Marshall Islands law generally prohibits the payment of dividends if the company is insolvent or would be rendered insolvent upon payment of such dividend and dividends may be declared and paid out of our operating surplus; but in this case, there is no such surplus. Dividends may be declared or paid out of net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared and for the preceding fiscal year. Our ability to pay dividends will also be subject to our satisfaction of certain financial covenants contained in our credit facilities. We may be unable to pay dividends in the anticipated amounts or at all. Under our credit facility with HSH Nordbank, we have agreed not to pay dividends in any year that exceed 50% of our net income for that year, as evidenced by the relevant annual audited financial statements. As we expand our business, we may need to improve our operating and financial systems and will need to recruit suitable employees and crew for our vessels. Our current operating and financial systems may not be adequate as we expand the size of our fleet and our attempts to improve those systems may be ineffective. In addition, as we expand our fleet, we will need to recruit suitable additional seafarers and shoreside administrative and management personnel. We may be unable to hire suitable employees as we expand our fleet. If we or our crewing agent encounters business or financial difficulties, we may not be able to adequately staff our vessels. If we are unable to grow our financial and operating systems or to recruit suitable employees as we expand our fleet, our financial performance may be adversely affected and, among other things, the amount of cash available for distribution as dividends to our shareholders may be reduced. Our investment in Ocean Rig ASA carries with it certain obligations that may require us to pay additional consideration, purchase additional shares or prevent us from exercising our rights in the shares acquired. On December 20, 2007, the Company acquired 51,778,647 shares in Ocean Rig ASA, or Ocean Rig, which represents 30.4% of the issued and outstanding shares. Mr. George Economou, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, purchased in a seperate transaction approximately 4.4% of the outstanding shares of Ocean Rig. The sale and purchase agreement executed in conjunction with this acquisition imposes certain obligations on the Company. For instance, if the Company, its nominee, or a third party makes a bid for all of the issued shares of Ocean Rig within three months of the settlement of the December 20, 2007 transaction at a greater per share price, it will trigger an obligation on behalf of the Company to pay an additional purchase price in respect of the 51,778,647 acquired shares. The additional purchase price will be in an amount sufficient to make the per share purchase price in the December 20, 2007 transaction equal to the per share purchase price in the subsequent transaction. This provision expires on March 30, 2008. In addition, the Norwegian Securities Trading Act requires that any purchaser of more than 33% of a public company make a bid for all other outstanding shares of the target company at the highest price paid per share. The Company's shares and Mr. Economou's shares are aggregated for these purposes. If the Company or any “close affiliate” (as such term is defined in the act) further acquires one or more shares of Ocean Rig, then the Company shall be required to bid for all outstanding shares of Ocean Rig at the highest price paid per share in the period six months prior to the point at which the mandatory offer obligation was triggered. Once such an obligation is triggered, the Company cannot exercise any rights (such as voting rights), other than the right to take out dividends and the exercise of pre-emption rights in the event of a capital increase, with respect to the portion of the shares which exceeds the mandatory bid threshold in Ocean Rig until the required bid has been made. In the alternative, the Company would be permitted to sell shares to reduce its ownership below the threshold that triggered the mandatory bid obligation. A requirement to pay additional capital for shares already acquired or to acquire further shares in Ocean Rig, or an inability to exercise voting or other rights with respect to the shares, may result in decreased earnings available for distribution to our shareholders. 21 Risks Relating to Our Common Stock There is no guarantee of a continuing public market for you to resell our common stock. Our common shares commenced trading on the Nasdaq National Market, now the Nasdaq Global Market, in February 2005. An active and liquid public market for our common shares may not continue. The price of our common stock may be volatile and may fluctuate due to factors such as: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results and those of other public companies in our industry, · mergers and strategic alliances in the drybulk shipping industry, · market conditions in the drybulk shipping industry and the general state of the securities markets, · changes in government regulation, · shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecast by securities analysts, and · announcements concerning us or our competitors. You may not be able to sell your shares of our common stock in the future at the price that you paid for them or at all. We are incorporated in the Republic of the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of corporate law and, as a result, shareholders may have fewer rights and protections under Marshall Islands law than under a typical jurisdiction in the United States. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws and by the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act, or “BCA.” The provisions of the BCA resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, there have been few judicial cases in the Republic of the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA. The rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the law of the Republic of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain United States jurisdictions. Shareholder rights may differ as well. While the BCA does specifically incorporate the non-statutory law, or judicial case law, of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction. 22 A small number of our stockholders effectively control the outcome of matters on which our stockholders are entitled to vote. Entities affiliated with Mr. Economou, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and interim Chief Financial Officer, currently own, directly or indirectly, approximately 29.7% of our outstanding common stock. While those stockholders have no agreement, arrangement or understanding relating to the voting of their shares of our common stock, they will effectively control the outcome of matters on which our stockholders are entitled to vote, including the election of directors and other significant corporate actions. The interests of these stockholders may be different from your interests. Future sales of our common stock could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, may depress the market price for our common stock. These sales could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of our equity securities in the future. We may issue additional shares of our common stock in the future and our stockholders may elect to sell large numbers of shares held by them from time to time. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation authorize us to issue 1,000,000,000 common shares with par value $0.01 per share of which 40,890,097 shares are outstanding as of March 11, 2008. We may issue registered preferred stock in the future. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation authorize us to issue 500,000,000 registered preferred shares with par value $0.01 per share of which none have been issued. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents could make it difficult for our stockholders to replace or remove our current board of directors or have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Several provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws could make it difficult for our stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors in any one year, preventing them from changing the composition of management. In addition, the same provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable. These provisions include: · authorizing our board of directors to issue “blank check” preferred stock without stockholder approval, 23 · providing for a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms, · prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors, · authorizing the removal of directors only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock entitled to vote for the directors, · prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, · limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders, and · establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, we have adopted a stockholders rights agreement pursuant to which our board of directors may cause the substantial dilution of the holdings of any person that attempts to acquire us without the approval of our board of directors. These anti-takeover provisions, including provisions of our stockholder rights agreement, could substantially impede the ability of public stockholders to benefit from a change in control and, as a result, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and your ability to realize any potential change of control premium. Item 