ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS We primarily rely on owner-operators to provide transportation services to our customers, and continued reliance primarily on owner-operators, as well as reductions in our pool of available driver candidates could limit our growth. The transportation services that we provide are primarily carried out by owner-operators who are generally responsible for paying for their own equipment, fuel and other operating costs. Our owner-operators provide substantially all of the tractors and over 50% of the trailers used in our business. Owner-operators make up a relatively small portion of the pool of all truck drivers. Thus, continued reliance primarily on owner-operators could limit our ability to grow. In addition, the following factors recently have combined to create a difficult operating environment for owner-operators: • increases in the prices of new and used tractors; • a tightening of financing sources available to owner-operators for the acquisition of equipment; • high fuel prices; and • increases in insurance costs. In recent years, these factors have caused many owner-operators to join company-owned fleets or to exit the industry entirely. As a result of the smaller available pool of qualified owner-operators, the already strong competition among carriers for their services has intensified. Due to the difficult operating environment and intense competition, turnover among owner-operators in the trucking industry is high. In 2008, turnover among our owner-operators was approximately 92%. Additionally, our agreements with our owner-operators are terminable by either party upon short notice and without penalty. Consequently, we regularly need to recruit qualified owner-operators to replace those who have left our fleet. If we are unable to retain our existing owner-operators or recruit new owner-operators, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In the event that the current operating environment for owner-operators worsens, we could adjust our owner-operator compensation package or, alternatively, to acquire more of our own revenue equipment and seat it with employee drivers in order to maintain or increase the size of our fleet. The adoption of either of these measures could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If we are required to increase the compensation of owner-operators, our results of operations would be adversely affected to the extent increased expenses are not offset by higher freight rates. If we elect to purchase more of our own tractors and hire additional employee drivers, our capital expenditures would increase, we would incur additional employee benefits costs and depreciation, interest, and/or equipment rental expenses, our financial return on our assets would decline and we would be exposed to the risks associated with implementing a business model with which we have limited experience. 11 Table of Contents We rely heavily upon our agents to develop customer relationships and to locate freight, and the loss of any agent or agents responsible for a significant portion of our revenue could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. We rely heavily upon our agents to market our transportation services, to act as intermediaries with customers and to recruit owner-operators. Although we employ a small field management staff that maintains direct relationships with some of our larger, national customers and is responsible for supporting, coordinating and supervising our agent’s activities, the primary relationship with our customers generally is with our agents and not directly with us. We rely on verbal agreements with many of our agents and these verbal agreements do not obligate our agents to provide us with a specific amount of service or to refer freight exclusively to us. Our reliance on verbal agreements may increase the likelihood that we or our agents have a disagreement or a misunderstanding of our and their respective rights and obligations. In addition, in the event of a dispute with one of our agents, we may not be able to verify the terms of the agreement. We compete with other trucking companies that utilize agent networks both to recruit quality agents and for the business that they generate, which typically involves both competition with respect to the freight rates that we charge shippers and the compensation paid to the agents. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our agents or that our agents will continue to refer to us the amount of business that they have in the past. In 2008, 157 of our agents generated more than $1.0 million in operating revenues each and our five largest revenue-producing agents generated an aggregate of approximately 9.8% of our operating revenues. If we were to lose the service of an agent or agents responsible for a significant portion of our operating revenues or if any such agent or agents were to significantly reduce the volume of business that they refer to us, it would have a materially adverse effect on our operating revenues and results of operations. Further, if we were required to increase the compensation we pay to agents in order to retain, or maintain business volumes with them, our operating results would be adversely affected to the extent that we could not pass these increased costs on to our customers. We self-insure for a significant portion of our potential liability for auto liability, workers’ compensation and general liability claims. One or more significant claims, our failure to adequately reserve for such claims, or the cost of maintaining our insurance, could have a materially adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We maintain auto liability, workers compensation and general liability insurance with licensed insurance carriers. We are self-insured for all cargo and equipment damage claims. The nature of our industry is that auto accidents occur and, when they do, they almost always result in equipment damage and they often result in injuries or death. Since January 1, 2000, less than 1% of our total casualty claims exceeded our insurance policy limits. If we experience claims that are not covered by our insurance or that exceed our reserves, or if we experience claims for which coverage is not provided, it could increase the volatility of our earnings and have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our insurance premiums continue to increase over our historical levels and as a result we expect our insurance and claims expense to continue to increase over historical levels, even if we do not experience an increase in the number of insurance claims. Insurance carriers have significantly raised premiums for many businesses, including trucking companies. If this continues, the cost of maintaining our insurance would increase. In addition, if we decide to increase our insurance coverage in the future, our costs would be expected to further increase. Our business is subject to general economic and business factors that are largely out of our control, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our operating results. Our business is dependent upon a number of general economic and business factors that may have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations. Many of these are beyond our control, including new equipment 12 Table of Contents prices and used equipment values, interest rates, fuel taxes, tolls, and license and registration fees, all of which could increase the costs borne by our owner-operators, and capacity levels in the trucking industry, particularly in the market segments and geographic regions in which we operate. We also are affected by recessionary economic cycles, changes in inventory levels, and downturns in customers’ business cycles, particularly in market segments and industries where we have a significant concentration of customers, such as automotive, steel and other metals, building materials and machinery. Economic conditions may adversely affect our customers, their need for our services or their ability to pay for our services. Adverse changes in any of these factors could have a materially adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive and fragmented industry, and our business may suffer if we are unable to adequately address factors that may adversely affect our revenue and costs relative to our competitors. Numerous competitive factors could impair our ability to maintain our current profitability. These factors include the following: • we compete with many other truckload carriers of varying sizes and to a lesser extent, with less than truckload carriers and railroads, some of which have more equipment, a broader coverage network, a wider range of services and greater capital resources than we do; • some of our competitors periodically reduce their freight rates to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the economy, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase freight rates, maintain our operating margins or maintain significant growth in our business; • many customers reduce the number of carriers they use by selecting so-called “core carriers” as approved service providers, and in some instances we may not be selected; • many customers periodically accept bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, and this process may depress freight rates or result in the loss of some of our business to competitors; • the trend toward consolidation in the trucking industry may create other large carriers with greater financial resources and other competitive advantages relating to their size and with whom we may have difficulty competing; • advances in technology require increased investments to remain competitive, and our customers may not be willing to accept higher freight rates to cover the cost of these investments; • competition from Internet-based and other brokerage companies may adversely affect our relationships with our customers and freight rates; and • economies of scale that may be passed on to smaller carriers by procurement aggregation providers may improve the ability of smaller carriers to compete with us. Fluctuations in the price or availability of fuel and our ability to collect fuel surcharges may affect our ability to retain or recruit owner-operators. Our owner-operators bear the costs of operating their tractors, including the cost of fuel and fuel taxes. The tractors operated by our owner-operators consume large amounts of diesel fuel. Diesel fuel prices fluctuate greatly due to economic, political and other factors beyond our control. For example, average weekly diesel fuel prices ranged from $2.33 per gallon to $3.88 per gallon in the fourth quarter 2008, compared with $3.04 per gallon to $3.44 per gallon in the fourth quarter of 2007. To address fluctuations in fuel prices, we seek to impose fuel surcharges on our customers and pass these surcharges on to our owner-operators. These arrangements will not fully protect our owner-operators from fuel price increases. If costs for fuel escalate significantly it could make it more difficult to attract additional qualified owner-operators and retain our current owner-operators. Our owner-operators also may seek higher compensation from us in the form of higher commissions, which could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations. If we lose the services of a significant number of owner-operators or are unable to attract additional owner-operators, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents We may not be able to successfully execute our acquisition strategy, which could cause our business and future growth prospects to suffer. One component of our growth strategy is to pursue strategic acquisitions of truckload and other transportation companies that meet our acquisition criteria. However, suitable acquisition candidates may not be available on terms and conditions we find acceptable. In pursuing acquisitions, we compete with other companies, many of which may have greater resources than we do. If we are unable to secure sufficient funding for potential acquisitions, we may not be able to complete strategic acquisitions that we otherwise find desirable. Further, if we succeed in consummating strategic acquisitions, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be negatively affected because: • some of the acquired businesses may not achieve anticipated revenues, earnings or cash flows; • we may assume liabilities that were not disclosed to us or exceed our estimates; • we may be unable to integrate acquired businesses successfully and realize anticipated economic, operational, and other benefits in a timely manner, which could result in substantial costs and delays or other operational, technical or financial problems; • acquisitions could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and divert our resources; • we may experience difficulties operating in markets in which we have had no or only limited direct experience; • we may lose the customers, key employees, agents and owner-operators of the acquired company; • we may finance future acquisitions by issuing common stock for some or all of the purchase price, which could dilute the ownership interests of our shareholders; • we may incur additional debt related to future acquisitions; or • we may acquire companies that derive a portion of their revenues from asset-based operations and experience unforeseen difficulties in integrating this unfamiliar business model. If we are unable to retain our executive officers, our business and results of operations could be harmed. We are highly dependent upon the services of our executive officers and the officers of our operating subsidiaries. We do not maintain key-man life insurance on any of these persons. The loss of the services of any of these individuals could have a materially adverse effect on our operations and future profitability. We also need to continue to develop and retain a core group of managers if we are to realize our goal of expanding our operations and continuing our growth. The market for qualified employees can be highly competitive, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain the services of qualified executives, managers or other employees. We operate in a highly regulated industry and increased costs of compliance with, liability for violation of, or changes in, existing or future regulations could have a materially adverse effect on our business. The U.S. Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, or FMCSA, and various state and local agencies exercise broad powers over our business, generally governing such activities as authorization to engage in motor carrier operations, safety and insurance requirements. Our owner-operators must comply with the safety and fitness regulations promulgated by the FMCSA, including those relating to drug and alcohol testing and hours-of-service. There also are regulations specifically relating to the trucking industry, including testing and specifications of equipment and product handling requirements. These measures could disrupt or impede the timing of our deliveries and we may fail to meet the needs of our customers. The cost of complying with these regulatory measures, or any future measures, could have a materially adverse effect on our business or results of operations. 14 Table of Contents On January 4, 2004, new FMCSA hours-of-service regulations took effect. However, after nine months of operation under the new regulations, citizens’ advocacy groups successfully challenged the new regulations in court, alleging that they were developed without properly considering issues of driver health. Subsequently, on October 1, 2005, the FMCSA again revised the hours of service regulations to address the concerns noted by the federal court. The only significant change effecting our operations is the new requirement that at least one of the two periods of a recognized sleeper berth break be at least 8 consecutive hours. Previously, a driver could accumulate the required 10-hour sleeper berth break in two separate periods as long as each period was at least 2 hours and the two periods combined equaled 10 hours. Requiring a minimum 8 consecutive hour sleeper break will possibly result in a decline in miles per truck because, under the new rule, drivers will no longer have the flexibility to take a shorter sleeper berth break of less than 8 hours while waiting to load or unload at a customer facility. On July 24, 2007, the court struck down the 2005 FMCSA provisions relating to the 11-hour drive time and 34-hour restart provisions. On December 11, 2007, the FMCSA submitted and passed an Interim Final Rule (IFR) preserving the 2005 drive time and restart provisions. The IFR allows commercial motor carrier drivers to continue to drive up to 11 hours within a 14-hours workday and mandates the 10 consecutive off-duty hours between workdays with drivers allowed to restart their calculations of weekly on-duty time after having at least 34 consecutive hours off duty. In November 2008, following the submission of additional data by FMCSA and a series of appeals and related court rulings, the FMCSA adopted the final provisions of its December 2007 IFR, which allows commercial motor carrier drivers to continue to drive up to 11 hours within a 14-hour workday and mandates at least 10 consecutive off-duty hours between workdays. The ruling also allows drivers to continue to restart their calculations of weekly on-duty time limits after having at least 34 consecutive hours off-duty. Advocacy groups may continue to challenge the final rule and we are unable to predict how a court may rule on such challenges. We will continue to monitor the actions of the FMCSA. Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties. Our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage and environmental damage, among others, and we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations. If we are involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to criminal and civil liability, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business and operating results. In addition, claims for environmental liabilities arising out of property contamination have been asserted against us from time to time. Such claims, in some instances, have been associated with businesses related to entities or facilities we acquired and have been based on conduct that occurred prior to our acquisition of those entities or facilities. While none of the claims identified to date have resulted in a material liability to us, additional environmental liabilities relating to any of our former operations or any entities or facilities we have acquired could be identified and give rise to claims against us involving significant losses. A determination by regulators that our agents and owner-operators are employees could expose us to various liabilities and additional costs. From time to time, tax and other regulatory authorities have sought to assert that independent contractors in the trucking industry, such as our agents and owner-operators, are employees rather than independent contractors. There can be no assurance that these interpretations and tax laws that consider these persons independent contractors will not change or that these authorities will not successfully assert this position. If our agents or owner-operators are determined to be our employees, that determination could materially increase our exposure under a variety of federal and state tax, workers’ compensation, unemployment benefits, labor, employment and tort laws, as well as our potential liability for employee benefits. Our business model relies on the fact that our agents and owner-operators are not deemed to be our employees, and exposure to any of the above increased costs would have a materially adverse effect on our business and operating results. 15 Table of Contents Our business may be harmed by terrorist attacks, future war or anti-terrorism measures. In the aftermath of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, federal, state and municipal authorities have implemented and continue to follow various security measures, including checkpoints and travel restrictions on large trucks. Such measures may have costs associated with them, which we or our owner-operators could be forced to bear, or may otherwise reduce the productivity of our owner-operators. For example, security measures imposed at bridges, tunnels, border crossings and other points on key trucking routes may cause delays and increase the non-driving time of our owner-operators, which could have a materially adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, war, risk of war or a terrorist attack also may have an adverse effect on the economy. A decline in economic activity could adversely affect our revenues or restrict our future growth. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war also could affect our ability to raise capital. In addition, the insurance premiums charged for some or all of the coverage currently maintained by us could increase dramatically or such coverage could be unavailable in the future. Our ability to grow may be affected if shippers refuse to use our services because we operate primarily through agents and owner-operators. In our experience, certain high-volume shippers have determined that their freight must be hauled by carriers that use company drivers and equipment. Such shippers believe that they can obtain a more homogenous fleet and more control over service standards. Such policies could prevent us from pursuing certain business opportunities, which could adversely affect our growth and results of operations. A decrease in intermodal volume shipments could adversely affect our business. A portion of our business comes from the intermodal segment of the trucking market and we believe that by expanding our intermodal support services we have a substantial opportunity to grow our business. A decrease in intermodal transportation services resulting from general economic conditions or other factors such as work stoppages, price competition from other modes of transportation, or a disruption in steamship or rail service could have an adverse effect on these growth opportunities and have a materially adverse effect on our business. Seasonality and the impact of weather can affect our operations. The productivity of our owner-operators generally decreases during the winter season because some shippers reduce their shipments and inclement weather impedes operations. At the same time, our operating expenses generally increase because harsh weather creates higher accident frequency and increased claims. We have incurred and will continue to incur increased costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the NASDAQ National Market, have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. We expect new rules and regulations to continuously increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. We are continuously evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these new laws, rules and regulations, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. The costs of compliance or our failure to comply with these laws, rules and regulations could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition, results of operation and the price of our common stock. We may be required to write down goodwill and other intangible assets, causing our financial condition and results to be negatively impacted. When we acquire a business, a portion of the purchase price is allocated to goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. Goodwill represents the excess purchase price over the fair value of assets acquired in 16 Table of Contents connection with the our acquisitions. At December 31, 2008, our goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets were approximately $28.6 million. Under current accounting standards, if we determine goodwill or intangible assets are impaired, we would be required to write down the value of these assets. We are required to test goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently, whenever events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit with goodwill below its carrying amount. We annually test goodwill impairment on the 1st day of our 3rd fiscal quarter. During the third quarter of 2008 we completed our impairment analysis and concluded that no impairment charge was necessary for the year ended December 31, 2008. We cannot provide assurance whether we will be required to take an impairment charge in the future. Any impairment charge would have a negative effect on our financial results. We may be subject to additional impairment charges due to further declines in the fair value of our equity securities. As of December 31, 2008, we held equity securities with a fair value of $8.8 million as short term investments. Holding equity securities subjects us to fluctuations in the market value of our investment portfolio based on current market prices. Marketable securities are carried at fair value and are marked to market at the end of each quarter, with the unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income, unless the declines in value are judged to be other-than-temporary, in which case an impairment charge is included in the determination of net income. During 2008, the Company recorded pre-tax other-than-temporary impairment charges of $3.6 million for marketable equity securities classified as available-for-sale. We may incur future impairment charges if declines in market values continue or worsen and impairments are no longer considered temporary. Any disputes that arise between us and CenTra with respect to our past and ongoing relationships could harm our business operations. Disputes may arise between CenTra and us in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships, including: • labor, tax, employee benefit, indemnification and other matters arising from our separation from CenTra; • employee retention and recruiting; • the nature, quality and pricing of transitional services CenTra has agreed to provide us; and • business opportunities that may be attractive to both CenTra and us. We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts, and even if we do, the resolution may be less favorable than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated party. The agreements we have entered into with CenTra may be amended upon agreement between the parties. While we are controlled by Matthew T. Moroun and Manuel J. Moroun, who also control CenTra, CenTra may be able to require us to agree to amendments to these agreements that may be less favorable to us than the original terms of the agreements. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION STAFF COMMENTS None. 17 Table of Contents 