RISK FACTORS We may not have sufficient cash from operations to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution on our common units following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses. We may not have sufficient cash available each quarter to pay the minimum quarterly distribution on our common units. The amount of cash we can distribute on our common units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which may fluctuate based on, among other things: • the rates we obtain from our charters; • the level of our operating costs, such as the cost of crews and insurance; • the continued availability of LNG and LPG production, liquefaction and regasification facilities; • the number of unscheduled off-hire days for our fleet and the timing of, and number of days required for, scheduled drydocking of our vessels; • delays in the delivery of newbuildings and the beginning of payments under charters relating to those vessels; • prevailing global and regional economic and political conditions; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; and • the effect of governmental regulations and maritime self-regulatory organization standards on the conduct of our business. The actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution also will depend on factors such as: • the level of capital expenditures we make, including for maintaining vessels, building new vessels, acquiring existing vessels and complying with regulations; • our debt service requirements and restrictions on distributions contained in our debt instruments; • fluctuations in our working capital needs; • our ability to make working capital borrowings, including to pay distributions to unitholders; and • the amount of any cash reserves, including reserves for future capital expenditures and other matters, established by Teekay GP L.L.C., our general partner (or the General Partner) in its discretion. The amount of cash we generate from our operations may differ materially from our profit or loss for the period, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result of this and the other factors mentioned above, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net income. We make substantial capital expenditures to maintain the operating capacity of our fleet, which reduce our cash available for distribution. In addition, each quarter our General Partner is required to deduct estimated maintenance capital expenditures from operating surplus, which may result in less cash available to unitholders than if actual maintenance capital expenditures were deducted. We must make substantial capital expenditures to maintain, over the long term, the operating capacity of our fleet. These maintenance capital expenditures include capital expenditures associated with drydocking a vessel, modifying an existing vessel or acquiring a new vessel to the extent these expenditures are incurred to maintain the operating capacity of our fleet. These expenditures could increase as a result of changes in: • the cost of labor and materials; • customer requirements; • increases in the size of our fleet; • governmental regulations and maritime self-regulatory organization standards relating to safety, security or the environment; and • competitive standards. Our significant maintenance capital expenditures reduce the amount of cash we have available for distribution to our unitholders. 9 In addition, our actual maintenance capital expenditures vary significantly from quarter to quarter based on, among other things, the number of vessels drydocked during that quarter. Our partnership agreement requires our General Partner to deduct estimated, rather than actual, maintenance capital expenditures from operating surplus (as defined in our partnership agreement) each quarter in an effort to reduce fluctuations in operating surplus. The amount of estimated maintenance capital expenditures deducted from operating surplus is subject to review and change by the conflicts committee of our General Partner’s board of directors at least once a year. In years when estimated maintenance capital expenditures are higher than actual maintenance capital expenditures — as we expect will be the case in the years we are not required to make expenditures for mandatory drydockings — the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders will be lower than if actual maintenance capital expenditures were deducted from operating surplus. If our General Partner underestimates the appropriate level of estimated maintenance capital expenditures, we may have less cash available for distribution in future periods when actual capital expenditures begin to exceed our previous estimates. We will be required to make substantial capital expenditures to expand the size of our fleet. We generally will be required to make significant installment payments for acquisitions of newbuilding vessels prior to their delivery and generation of revenue. Depending on whether we finance our expenditures through cash from operations or by issuing debt or equity securities, our ability to make required payments on our debt securities and cash distributions on our common units may be diminished or our financial leverage could increase or our unitholders could be diluted. We make substantial capital expenditures to increase the size of our fleet, particularly the number of LNG and LPG carriers we own. As at December 31, 2008, we have agreed to purchase from Teekay Corporation its interests in a number of LNG and LPG delivered and newbuilding carriers and from I.M. Skaugen ASA (or Skaugen) three LPG carriers. Teekay Corporation is obligated to offer to us its interests in additional vessels. Please read Item 5 — Operating and Financial Review and Prospects, for additional information about some of these pending and proposed acquisitions. In addition, we are obligated to purchase five of our existing Suezmax tankers upon the termination of the related capital leases, which will occur at various times from late-2009 to 2011. We and Teekay Corporation regularly evaluate and pursue opportunities to provide the marine transportation requirements for new or expanding LNG and LPG projects. The award process relating to LNG transportation opportunities typically involves various stages and takes several months to complete. Neither we nor Teekay Corporation may be awarded charters relating to any of the projects we or it pursues. If any LNG and LPG project charters are awarded to Teekay Corporation, it must offer them to us pursuant to the terms of an omnibus agreement entered into in connection with our initial public offering. If we elect pursuant to the omnibus agreement to obtain Teekay Corporation’s interests in any projects Teekay Corporation may be awarded, or if we bid on and are awarded contracts relating to any LNG and LPG project, we will need to incur significant capital expenditures to buy Teekay Corporation’s interest in these LNG and LPG projects or to build the LNG and LPG carriers. To fund the remaining portion of existing or future capital expenditures, we will be required to use cash from operations or incur borrowings or raise capital through the sale of debt or additional equity securities. Use of cash from operations will reduce cash available for distributions to unitholders. Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for future offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering as well as by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Our failure to obtain the funds for necessary future capital expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and on our ability to make cash distributions. Even if we are successful in obtaining necessary funds, the terms of such financings could limit our ability to pay cash distributions to unitholders. In addition, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, and issuing additional equity securities may result in significant unitholder dilution and would increase the aggregate amount of cash required to meet our minimum quarterly distribution to unitholders, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to make cash distributions. A shipowner typically is required to expend substantial sums as progress payments during construction of a newbuilding, but does not derive any income from the vessel until after its delivery. If we were unable to obtain financing required to complete payments on any future newbuilding orders, we could effectively forfeit all or a portion of the progress payments previously made. Our ability to grow may be adversely affected by our cash distribution policy. Our cash distribution policy, which is consistent with our partnership agreement, requires us to distribute all of our available cash (as defined in our partnership agreement) each quarter. Accordingly, our growth may not be as fast as businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. Our substantial debt levels may limit our flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities. As at December 31, 2008, our consolidated debt, capital lease obligations and advances from affiliates totaled $2.2 billion and we had the capacity to borrow an additional $374.2 million under our credit facilities. These facilities may be used by us for general partnership purposes. If we are awarded contracts for new LNG or LPG projects, our consolidated debt and capital lease obligations will increase, perhaps significantly. We will continue to have the ability to incur additional debt, subject to limitations in our credit facilities. Our level of debt could have important consequences to us, including the following: • our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; • we will need a substantial portion of our cash flow to make principal and interest payments on our debt, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to unitholders; • our debt level may make us more vulnerable than our competitors with less debt to competitive pressures or a downturn in our industry or the economy generally; and • our debt level may limit our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. 10 Our ability to service our debt depends upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which is affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt, or seeking additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. We may not be able to effect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms, or at all. Financing agreements containing operating and financial restrictions may restrict our business and financing activities. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our financing arrangements and any future financing agreements for us could adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage, expand or pursue our business activities. For example, the arrangements may restrict our ability to: • incur or guarantee indebtedness; • change ownership or structure, including mergers, consolidations, liquidations and dissolutions; • make dividends or distributions when in default of the relevant loans; • make certain negative pledges and grant certain liens; • sell, transfer, assign or convey assets; • make certain investments; and • enter into a new line of business. In addition, some of our financing arrangements require us to maintain a minimum level of tangible net worth and a minimum level of aggregate liquidity, a maximum level of leverage and require one of our subsidiaries to maintain restricted cash deposits. Our ability to comply with covenants and restrictions contained in debt instruments may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, compliance with these covenants may be impaired. If restrictions, covenants, ratios or tests in the financing agreements are breached, a significant portion of the obligations may become immediately due and payable, and the lenders’ commitment to make further loans may terminate. We might not have or be able to obtain sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. In addition, our obligations under our existing credit facilities are secured by certain of our vessels, and if we are unable to repay debt under the credit facilities, the lenders could seek to foreclose on those assets. Restrictions in our debt agreements may prevent us from paying distributions. The payment of principal and interest on our debt and capital lease obligations reduces cash available for distribution to us and on our units. In addition, our financing agreements prohibit the payment of distributions upon the occurrence of the following events, among others: • failure to pay any principal, interest, fees, expenses or other amounts when due; • failure to notify the lenders of any material oil spill or discharge of hazardous material, or of any action or claim related thereto; • breach or lapse of any insurance with respect to vessels securing the facility; • breach of certain financial covenants; • failure to observe any other agreement, security instrument, obligation or covenant beyond specified cure periods in certain cases; • default under other indebtedness; • bankruptcy or insolvency events; • failure of any representation or warranty to be materially correct; • a change of control, as defined in the applicable agreement; and • a material adverse effect, as defined in the applicable agreement. 11 We derive a substantial majority of our revenues from a limited number of customers, and the loss of any customer, time charter or vessel could result in a significant loss of revenues and cash flow. We have derived, and believe that we will continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenues and cash flow from a limited number of customers. Please see Item 18 — Financial Statements: Note 4 Segment Reporting. We could lose a customer or the benefits of a time charter if: • the customer fails to make charter payments because of its financial inability, disagreements with us or otherwise; • the customer exercises certain rights to terminate the charter, purchase or cause the sale of the vessel or, under some of our charters, convert the time charter to a bareboat charter (some of which rights are exercisable at any time); • the customer terminates the charter because we fail to deliver the vessel within a fixed period of time, the vessel is lost or damaged beyond repair, there are serious deficiencies in the vessel or prolonged periods of off-hire, or we default under the charter; or • under some of our time charters, the customer terminates the charter because of the termination of the charterer’s LNG/LPG sales agreement supplying the LNG/LPG designated for our services, or a prolonged force majeure event affecting the customer, including damage to or destruction of relevant LNG/LPG production or regasification facilities, war or political unrest preventing us from performing services for that customer. If we lose a key LNG or LPG time charter, we may be unable to re-deploy the related vessel on terms as favorable to us due to the long-term nature of most LNG and LPG time charters and the lack of an established LNG spot market. If we are unable to re-deploy an LNG carrier, we will not receive any revenues from that vessel, but we may be required to pay expenses necessary to maintain the vessel in proper operating condition. In addition, if a customer exercises its right to purchase a vessel, we would not receive any further revenue from the vessel and may be unable to obtain a substitute vessel and charter. This may cause us to receive decreased revenue and cash flows from having fewer vessels operating in our fleet. Any compensation under our charters for a purchase of the vessels may not adequately compensate us for the loss of the vessel and related time charter. If we lose a key Suezmax tanker customer, we may be unable to obtain other long-term Suezmax charters and may become subject to the volatile spot market, which is highly competitive and subject to significant price fluctuations. If a customer exercises its right under some charters to purchase or force a sale of the vessel, we may be unable to acquire an adequate replacement vessel or may be forced to construct a new vessel. Any replacement newbuilding would not generate revenues during its construction and we may be unable to charter any replacement vessel on terms as favorable to us as those of the terminated charter. The loss of any of our customers, time charters or vessels, or a decline in payments under our charters, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. We depend on Teekay Corporation to assist us in operating our business, competing in our markets, and providing interim financing for certain vessel acquisitions. Pursuant to certain services agreements between us and certain of our operating subsidiaries, on the one hand, and certain subsidiaries of Teekay Corporation, on the other hand, the Teekay Corporation subsidiaries provide to us administrative services and to our operating subsidiaries significant operational services (including vessel maintenance, crewing for some of our vessels, purchasing, shipyard supervision, insurance and financial services) and other technical, advisory and administrative services. Our operational success and ability to execute our growth strategy depend significantly upon Teekay Corporation’s satisfactory performance of these services. Our business will be harmed if Teekay Corporation fails to perform these services satisfactorily or if Teekay Corporation stops providing these services to us. Our ability to compete for the transportation requirements of LNG and LPG projects and to enter into new time charters and expand our customer relationships depends largely on our ability to leverage our relationship with Teekay Corporation and its reputation and relationships in the shipping industry. If Teekay Corporation suffers material damage to its reputation or relationships it may harm our ability to: • renew existing charters upon their expiration; • obtain new charters; • successfully interact with shipyards during periods of shipyard construction constraints; • obtain financing on commercially acceptable terms; or • maintain satisfactory relationships with our employees and suppliers. If our ability to do any of the things described above is impaired, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. Teekay Corporation is also incurring all costs for the construction and delivery of certain newbuildings, which we refer to as “warehousing.” Upon their delivery, we will purchase all of the interest of Teekay Corporation in the vessels at a price that will reimburse Teekay Corporation for these costs and compensate it for its average weighted cost of capital on the construction payments. We may enter into similar arrangements with Teekay Corporation or third parties in the future. If Teekay Corporation or any such third party fails to make construction payments for these newbuildings or other vessels warehoused for us, we could lose access to the vessels as a result of the default or we may need to finance these vessels before they begin operating and generating voyage revenues, which could harm our business and reduce our ability to make cash distributions. 12 Our growth depends on continued growth in demand for LNG and LPG shipping. Our growth strategy focuses on continued expansion in the LNG and LPG shipping sectors. Accordingly, our growth depends on continued growth in world and regional demand for LNG and LPG shipping, which could be negatively affected by a number of factors, such as: • increases in the cost of natural gas derived from LNG relative to the cost of natural gas generally; • increase in the cost of LPG relative to the cost of naphtha and other competing petrochemicals; • increases in the production of natural gas in areas linked by pipelines to consuming areas, the extension of existing, or the development of new, pipeline systems in markets we may serve, or the conversion of existing non-natural gas pipelines to natural gas pipelines in those markets; • decreases in the consumption of natural gas due to increases in its price relative to other energy sources or other factors making consumption of natural gas less attractive; • availability of new, alternative energy sources, including compressed natural gas; and • negative global or regional economic or political conditions, particularly in LNG and LPG consuming regions, which could reduce energy consumption or its growth. Reduced demand for LNG and LPG shipping would have a material adverse effect on our future growth and could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Growth of the LNG market, and as a consequence, the LPG market, may be limited by infrastructure constraints and community environmental group resistance to new LNG infrastructure over concerns about the environment, safety and terrorism. A complete LNG/LPG project includes production, liquefaction, regasification, storage and distribution facilities and LNG/LPG carriers. Existing LNG/LPG projects and infrastructure are limited, and new or expanded LNG/LPG projects are highly complex and capital-intensive, with new projects often costing several billion dollars. Many factors could negatively affect continued development of LNG/LPG infrastructure or disrupt the supply of LNG/LPG, including: • increases in interest rates or other events that may affect the availability of sufficient financing for LNG/LPG projects on commercially reasonable terms; • decreases in the price of LNG/LPG, which might decrease the expected returns relating to investments in LNG/LPG projects; • the inability of project owners or operators to obtain governmental approvals to construct or operate LNG/LPG facilities; • local community resistance to proposed or existing LNG/LPG facilities based on safety, environmental or security concerns; • any significant explosion, spill or similar incident involving an LNG/LPG facility or LNG carrier; and • labor or political unrest affecting existing or proposed areas of LNG/LPG production. If the LNG/LPG supply chain is disrupted or does not continue to grow, or if a significant LNG/LPG explosion, spill or similar incident occurs, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. Our growth depends on our ability to expand relationships with existing customers and obtain new customers, for which we will face substantial competition. One of our principal objectives is to enter into additional long-term, fixed-rate LNG and LPG time charters. The process of obtaining new long-term time charters is highly competitive and generally involves an intensive screening process and competitive bids, and often extends for several months. LNG/LPG shipping contracts are awarded based upon a variety of factors relating to the vessel operator, including: • shipping industry relationships and reputation for customer service and safety; • LNG/LPG shipping experience and quality of ship operations (including cost effectiveness); • quality and experience of seafaring crew; • the ability to finance LNG/LPG carriers at competitive rates and financial stability generally; • relationships with shipyards and the ability to get suitable berths; • construction management experience, including the ability to obtain on-time delivery of new vessels according to customer specifications; • willingness to accept operational risks pursuant to the charter, such as allowing termination of the charter for force majeure events; and • competitiveness of the bid in terms of overall price. 13 We compete for providing marine transportation services for potential LNG/LPG projects with a number of experienced companies, including state-sponsored entities and major energy companies affiliated with the LNG/LPG project requiring LNG/LPG shipping services. Many of these competitors have significantly greater financial resources than we do or Teekay Corporation does. We anticipate that an increasing number of marine transportation companies — including many with strong reputations and extensive resources and experience — will enter the LNG/LPG transportation sector. This increased competition may cause greater price competition for time charters. As a result of these factors, we may be unable to expand our relationships with existing customers or to obtain new customers on a profitable basis, if at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. Delays in deliveries of newbuildings could harm our operating results and lead to the termination of related time charters. We have agreed to purchase various newbuilding vessels. The delivery of these vessels, or any other newbuildings we may order or otherwise acquire, could be delayed, which would delay our receipt of revenues under the time charters for the vessels. In addition, under some of our charters if our delivery of a vessel to our customer is delayed, we may be required to pay liquidated damages in amounts equal to or, under some charters, almost double, the hire rate during the delay. For prolonged delays, the customer may terminate the time charter and, in addition to the resulting loss of revenues, we may be responsible for additional, substantial liquidated damages. Our receipt of newbuildings could be delayed because of: • quality or engineering problems; • changes in governmental regulations or maritime self-regulatory organization standards; • work stoppages or other labor disturbances at the shipyard; • bankruptcy or other financial crisis of the shipbuilder; • a backlog of orders at the shipyard; • political or economic disturbances in South Korea or other locations, where our vessels are being or may be built; • weather interference or catastrophic event, such as a major earthquake or fire; • our requests for changes to the original vessel specifications; • shortages of or delays in the receipt of necessary construction materials, such as steel; • our inability to finance the purchase of the vessels; or • our inability to obtain requisite permits or approvals. If delivery of a vessel is materially delayed, it could adversely affect our results or operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. We may have more difficulty entering into long-term, fixed-rate LNG time charters if an active short-term or spot shipping market develops. LNG shipping historically has been transacted with long-term, fixed-rate time charters, usually with terms ranging from 20 to 25 years. One of our principal strategies is to enter into additional long-term, fixed-rate LNG time charters. In recent years the number of spot and short term LNG charters (defined as charters under 4 years) has been increasing. In 2008 they accounted for approximately 18% of global LNG trade. If an active spot or short-term market continues to develop, we may have increased difficulty entering into long-term, fixed-rate time charters for our LNG vessels and, as a result, our cash flow may decrease and be less stable. In addition, an active short-term or spot LNG market may require us to enter into charters based on changing market prices, as opposed to contracts based on a fixed rate, which could result in a decrease in our cash flow in periods when the market price for shipping LNG is depressed or insufficient funds are available to cover our financing costs for related vessels. Over time vessel values may fluctuate substantially and, if these values are lower at a time when we are attempting to dispose of a vessel, we may incur a loss. Vessel values for LNG and LPG carriers and Suezmax oil tankers can fluctuate substantially over time due to a number of different factors, including: • prevailing economic conditions in natural gas, oil and energy markets; • a substantial or extended decline in demand for natural gas, LNG, LPG or oil; • increases in the supply of vessel capacity; and • the cost of retrofitting or modifying existing vessels, as a result of technological advances in vessel design or equipment, changes in applicable environmental or other regulation or standards, or otherwise. Vessel values may decline substantially from existing levels. If a charter terminates, we may be unable to re-deploy the vessel at attractive rates and, rather than continue to incur costs to maintain and finance it, may seek to dispose of it. Our inability to dispose of the vessel at a reasonable value could result in a loss on its sale and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 14 We may be unable to make or realize expected benefits from acquisitions, and implementing our growth strategy through acquisitions may harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Our growth strategy includes selectively acquiring existing LNG carriers or LNG shipping businesses. Historically, there have been very few purchases of existing vessels and businesses in the LNG shipping industry. Factors that may contribute to a limited number of acquisition opportunities in the LNG/LPG industries in the near term include the relatively small number of independent LNG/LPG fleet owners and the limited number of LNG/LPG carriers not subject to existing long-term charter contracts. In addition, competition from other companies could reduce our acquisition opportunities or cause us to pay higher prices. Any acquisition of a vessel or business may not be profitable to us at or after the time we acquire it and may not generate cash flow sufficient to justify our investment. In addition, our acquisition growth strategy exposes us to risks that may harm our business, financial condition and operating results, including risks that we may: • fail to realize anticipated benefits, such as new customer relationships, cost-savings or cash flow enhancements; • be unable to hire, train or retain qualified shore and seafaring personnel to manage and operate our growing business and fleet; • decrease our liquidity by using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance acquisitions; • significantly increase our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance acquisitions; • incur or assume unanticipated liabilities, losses or costs associated with the business or vessels acquired; or • incur other significant charges, such as impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, asset devaluation or restructuring charges. Unlike newbuildings, existing vessels typically do not carry warranties as to their condition. While we generally inspect existing vessels prior to purchase, such an inspection would normally not provide us with as much knowledge of a vessel’s condition as we would possess if it had been built for us and operated by us during its life. Repairs and maintenance costs for existing vessels are difficult to predict and may be substantially higher than for vessels we have operated since they were built. These costs could decrease our cash flow and reduce our liquidity. Terrorist attacks, piracy, increased hostilities or war could lead to further economic instability, increased costs and disruption of our business. Terrorist attacks, and the current conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan and other current and future conflicts, may adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition, ability to raise capital and future growth. Continuing hostilities in the Middle East may lead to additional armed conflicts or to further acts of terrorism and civil disturbance in the United States, Spain or elsewhere, which may contribute further to economic instability and disruption of LNG/LPG and oil production and distribution, which could result in reduced demand for our services. In addition, LNG, LPG and oil facilities, shipyards, vessels, pipelines and oil and gas fields could be targets of future terrorist attacks and our vessels could be targets of pirates or hijackers. Any such attacks could lead to, among other things, bodily injury or loss of life, vessel or other property damage, increased vessel operational costs, including insurance costs, and the inability to transport LNG, LPG, natural gas and oil to or from certain locations. Terrorist attacks, war, piracy, hijacking or other events beyond our control that adversely affect the distribution, production or transportation of LNG, LPG or oil to be shipped by us could entitle our customers to terminate our charter contracts, which would harm our cash flow and our business. Terrorist attacks, or the perception that LNG/LPG facilities and carriers are potential terrorist targets, could materially and adversely affect expansion of LNG/LPG infrastructure and the continued supply of LNG/LPG to the United States and other countries. Concern that LNG/LPG facilities may be targeted for attack by terrorists has contributed to significant community and environmental resistance to the construction of a number of LNG/LPG facilities, primarily in North America. If a terrorist incident involving an LNG/LPG facility or LNG/LPG carrier did occur, in addition to the possible effects identified in the previous paragraph, the incident may adversely affect construction of additional LNG facilities in the United States and other countries or lead to the temporary or permanent closing of various LNG/LPG facilities currently in operation. Our substantial operations outside the United States expose us to political, governmental and economic instability, which could harm our operations. Because our operations are primarily conducted outside of the United States, they may be affected by economic, political and governmental conditions in the countries where we are engaged in business or where our vessels are registered. Any disruption caused by these factors could harm our business. In particular, we derive a substantial portion of our revenues from shipping LNG and oil from politically unstable regions. Past political conflicts in these regions, particularly in the Arabian Gulf, have included attacks on ships, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt shipping in the area. Future hostilities or other political instability in the Arabian Gulf or other regions where we operate or may operate could have a material adverse effect on the growth of our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. In addition, tariffs, trade embargoes and other economic sanctions by Spain, the United States or other countries against countries in the Middle East, Southeast Asia or elsewhere as a result of terrorist attacks, hostilities or otherwise may limit trading activities with those countries, which could also harm our business and ability to make cash distributions. 15 Marine transportation is inherently risky, and an incident involving significant loss of or environmental contamination by any of our vessels could harm our reputation and business. Our vessels and their cargoes are at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as: • marine disasters; • bad weather; • mechanical failures; • grounding, fire, explosions and collisions; • piracy; • human error; and • war and terrorism. An accident involving any of our vessels could result in any of the following: • death or injury to persons, loss of property or environmental damage; • delays in the delivery of cargo; • loss of revenues from or termination of charter contracts; • governmental fines, penalties or restrictions on conducting business; • higher insurance rates; and • damage to our reputation and customer relationships generally. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our insurance may be insufficient to cover losses that may occur to our property or result from our operations. The operation of LNG and LPG carriers and oil tankers is inherently risky. Although we carry hull and machinery (marine and war risks) and protection and indemnity insurance, all risks may not be adequately insured against, and any particular claim may not be paid. In addition, we do not carry insurance on our oil tankers covering the loss of revenues resulting from vessel off-hire time based on its cost compared to our off-hire experience. Any claims covered by insurance would be subject to deductibles, and since it is possible that a large number of claims may be brought, the aggregate amount of these deductibles could be material. Certain of our insurance coverage is maintained through mutual protection and indemnity associations, and as a member of such associations we may be required to make additional payments over and above budgeted premiums if member claims exceed association reserves. We may be unable to procure adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates in the future. For example, more stringent environmental regulations have led in the past to increased costs for, and in the future may result in the lack of availability of, insurance against risks of environmental damage or pollution. A catastrophic oil spill or marine disaster could result in losses that exceed our insurance coverage, which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Any uninsured or underinsured loss could harm our business and financial condition. In addition, our insurance may be voidable by the insurers as a result of certain of our actions, such as our ships failing to maintain certification with applicable maritime self-regulatory organizations. Changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks may also make certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain. In addition, the insurance that may be available may be significantly more expensive than our existing coverage. The marine energy transportation industry is subject to substantial environmental and other regulations, which may significantly limit our operations or increase our expenses. Our operations are affected by extensive and changing international, national and local environmental protection laws, regulations, treaties and conventions in force in international waters, the jurisdictional waters of the countries in which our vessels operate, as well as the countries of our vessels’ registration, including those governing oil spills, discharges to air and water, and the handling and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes. Many of these requirements are designed to reduce the risk of oil spills and other pollution. In addition, we believe that the heightened environmental, quality and security concerns of insurance underwriters, regulators and charterers will lead to additional regulatory requirements, including enhanced risk assessment and security requirements and greater inspection and safety requirements on vessels. We expect to incur substantial expenses in complying with these laws and regulations, including expenses for vessel modifications and changes in operating procedures. 16 These requirements can affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels, require a reduction in cargo capacity, ship modifications or operational changes or restrictions, lead to decreased availability of insurance coverage for environmental matters or result in the denial of access to certain jurisdictional waters or ports, or detention in, certain ports. Under local, national and foreign laws, as well as international treaties and conventions, we could incur material liabilities, including cleanup obligations, in the event that there is a release of petroleum or other hazardous substances from our vessels or otherwise in connection with our operations. We could also become subject to personal injury or property damage claims relating to the release of or exposure to hazardous materials associated with our operations. In addition, failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of our operations, including, in certain instances, seizure or detention of our vessels. The United States Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (or OPA 90), for instance, allows for potentially unlimited liability for owners, operators and bareboat charterers for oil pollution and related damages in U.S. waters, which include the U.S. territorial sea and the 200-nautical mile exclusive economic zone around the United States, without regard to fault of such owners, operators and bareboat charterers. OPA 90 expressly permits individual states to impose their own liability regimes with regard to hazardous materials and oil pollution incidents occurring within their boundaries. Coastal states in the United States have enacted pollution prevention liability and response laws, many providing for unlimited liability. Similarly, the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage, 1969, as amended, which has been adopted by many countries outside of the United States, imposes liability for oil pollution in international waters. In addition, in complying with OPA 90, regulations of the International Maritime Organization (or IMO), European Union directives and other existing laws and regulations and those that may be adopted, ship-owners may incur significant additional costs in meeting new maintenance and inspection requirements, in developing contingency arrangements for potential spills and in obtaining insurance coverage. OPA 90 does not preclude claimants from seeking damages for the discharge of oil and hazardous substances under other applicable law, including maritime tort law. Such claims could include attempts to characterize seaborne transportation of LNG or LPG as an ultra-hazardous activity, which attempts, if successful, would lead to our being strictly liable for damages resulting from that activity. Various jurisdictions and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (or EPA) have recently adopted regulations affecting the management of ballast water to prevent the introduction of non-indigenous species considered to be invasive. to the EPA’s new ballast water treatment obligations will increase the cost of operating our vessels in United States waters. Exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations will result in fluctuations in our cash flows and operating results. We are paid in Euros under some of our charters, and a majority of our vessel operating expenses and general and administrative expenses currently are denominated in Euros, which is primarily a function of the nationality of our crew and administrative staff. We also make payments under two Euro-denominated term loans. If the amount of our Euro-denominated obligations exceeds our Euro-denominated revenues, we must convert other currencies, primarily the U.S. Dollar, into Euros. An increase in the strength of the Euro relative to the U.S. Dollar would require us to convert more U.S. Dollars to Euros to satisfy those obligations, which would cause us to have less cash available for distribution. In addition, if we do not have sufficient U.S. Dollars, we may be required to convert Euros into U.S. Dollars for distributions to unitholders. An increase in the strength of the U.S. Dollar relative to the Euro could cause us to have less cash available for distribution in this circumstance. We have not entered into currency swaps or forward contracts or similar derivatives to mitigate this risk. Because we report our operating results in U.S. Dollars, changes in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to the Euro also result in fluctuations in our reported revenues and earnings. In addition, under U.S. accounting guidelines, all foreign currency-denominated monetary assets and liabilities such as cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, restricted cash, accounts payable, long-term debt and capital lease obligations, are revalued and reported based on the prevailing exchange rate at the end of the period. This revaluation historically has caused us to report significant non-monetary foreign currency exchange gains or losses each period. The primary source for these gains and losses is our Euro-denominated term loans. Many of our seafaring employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements and the failure to renew those agreements or any future labor agreements may disrupt our operations and adversely affect our cash flows. A significant portion of our seafarers, and the seafarers employed by Teekay Corporation and its other affiliates that crew some of our vessels, are employed under collective bargaining agreements, which expired at varying times through 2008. The collective bargaining agreement for our Filipino LNG tanker crew members (covering four Spanish LNG tankers) has been renewed. The collective bargaining agreement for our Spanish Suezmax tanker crew members (covering five Spanish Suezmax tankers) and the collective bargaining agreement for our Spanish LNG tanker officers (covering four Spanish LNG tankers) expired at the end of 2008 and were renewed until a new one is renegotiated during 2009. We may be subject to similar labor agreements in the future. Crew compensation levels under new or renegotiated collective bargaining agreements may exceed existing compensation levels, which would adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. We may be subject to labor disruptions in the future if our relationships deteriorate with our seafarers or the unions that represent them. Our collective bargaining agreements may not prevent labor disruptions, particularly when the agreements are being renegotiated. Any labor disruptions could harm our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. Teekay Corporation may be unable to attract and retain qualified, skilled employees or crew necessary to operate our business, or may have to pay substantially increased costs for its employees and crew. Our success depends in large part on Teekay Corporation’s ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. In crewing our vessels, we require technically skilled employees with specialized training who can perform physically demanding work. The oil shipping industry is experiencing a global manpower shortage due to significant growth in the world fleet. This shortage resulted in crew wage increases during 2007 and 2008. We expect the trend of increasing crew compensation to continue during 2009. If we are not able to increase our rates to compensate for any crew cost increases, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Any inability we experience in the future to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees could impair our ability to manage, maintain and grow our business. 17 Due to our lack of diversification, adverse developments in our LNG, LPG or oil marine transportation businesses could reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. We rely exclusively on the cash flow generated from our LNG and LPG carriers and Suezmax oil tankers that operate in the LNG, LPG and oil marine transportation business. Due to our lack of diversification, an adverse development in the LNG, LPG or oil shipping industry would have a significantly greater impact on our financial condition and results of operations than if we maintained more diverse assets or lines of business. Teekay Corporation and its affiliates may engage in competition with us. Teekay Corporation and its affiliates, including Teekay Offshore Partners L.P. (or Teekay Offshore), may engage in competition with us. Pursuant to an omnibus agreement between Teekay Corporation, Teekay Offshore, us and other related parties, Teekay Corporation, Teekay Offshore and their respective controlled affiliates (other than us and our subsidiaries) generally have agreed not to own, operate or charter LNG carriers without the consent of our General Partner. The omnibus agreement, however, allows Teekay Corporation, Teekay Offshore or any of such controlled affiliates to: • acquire LNG carriers and related time charters as part of a business if a majority of the value of the total assets or business acquired is not attributable to the LNG carriers and time charters, as determined in good faith by the board of directors of Teekay Corporation or the board of directors of Teekay Offshore’s general partner; however, if at any time Teekay Corporation or Teekay Offshore completes such an acquisition, it must offer to sell the LNG carriers and related time charters to us for their fair market value plus any additional tax or other similar costs to Teekay Corporation or Teekay Offshore that would be required to transfer the LNG carriers and time charters to us separately from the acquired business; or • own, operate and charter LNG carriers that relate to a bid or award for a proposed LNG project that Teekay Corporation or any of its subsidiaries has submitted or hereafter submits or receives; however, at least 180 days prior to the scheduled delivery date of any such LNG carrier, Teekay Corporation must offer to sell the LNG carrier and related time charter to us, with the vessel valued at its “fully-built-up cost,” which represents the aggregate expenditures incurred (or to be incurred prior to delivery to us) by Teekay Corporation to acquire or construct and bring such LNG carrier to the condition and location necessary for our intended use, plus a reasonable allocation of overhead costs related to the development of such a project and other projects that would have been subject to the offer rights set forth in the omnibus agreement but were not completed. If we decline the offer to purchase the LNG carriers and time charters described above, Teekay Corporation or Teekay Offshore may own and operate the LNG carriers, but may not expand that portion of its business. In addition, pursuant to the omnibus agreement, Teekay Corporation, Teekay Offshore or any of their respective controlled affiliates (other than us and our subsidiaries) may: • acquire, operate or charter LNG carriers if our General Partner has previously advised Teekay Corporation or Teekay Offshore that the board of directors of our General Partner has elected, with the approval of the conflicts committee of its board of directors, not to cause us or our subsidiaries to acquire or operate the carriers; • acquire up to a 9.9% equity ownership, voting or profit participation interest in any publicly traded company that owns or operate LNG carriers; and • provide ship management services relating to LNG carriers. If there is a change of control of Teekay Corporation or Teekay Offshore, the non-competition provisions of the omnibus agreement may terminate, which termination could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. Our General Partner and its other affiliates have conflicts of interest and limited fiduciary duties, which may permit them to favor their own interests to those of unitholders. Teekay Corporation, which owns and controls our General Partner, indirectly owns the 2% General Partner interest and as at May 1, 2009 owned a 52.1% limited partner interest in us. Conflicts of interest may arise between Teekay Corporation and its affiliates, including our General Partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts, our General Partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations: • neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires our General Partner or Teekay Corporation to pursue a business strategy that favors us or utilizes our assets, and Teekay Corporation’s officers and directors have a fiduciary duty to make decisions in the best interests of the stockholders of Teekay Corporation, which may be contrary to our interests; • the executive officers and three of the directors of our General Partner also currently serve as executive officers or directors of Teekay Corporation; • our General Partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as Teekay Corporation, in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its fiduciary duty to our unitholders; • our General Partner has limited its liability and reduced its fiduciary duties under the laws of the Marshall Islands, while also restricting the remedies available to our unitholders, and as a result of purchasing common units, unitholders are treated as having agreed to the modified standard of fiduciary duties and to certain actions that may be taken by our General Partner, all as set forth in our partnership agreement; 18 • our General Partner determines the amount and timing of our asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures, borrowings, issuances of additional partnership securities and reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is available for distribution to our unitholders; • in some instances our General Partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make a distribution on our subordinated units or to make incentive distributions (in each case to affiliates to Teekay Corporation) or to accelerate the expiration of the subordination period applicable to our subordinated units; • our General Partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us; • our partnership agreement does not restrict our General Partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us on terms that are fair and reasonable or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf; • our General Partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by it and its affiliates; and • our General Partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us. Certain of our lease arrangements contain provisions whereby we have provided a tax indemnification to third parties. We and a joint venture partner are the lessee under 30-year capital lease arrangements with a third party for three LNG carriers. Under the terms of these capital lease arrangements, the lessor claims tax depreciation on the capital expenditures it incurred to acquire these vessels. As is typical in these leasing arrangements, tax and change of law risks are assumed by the lessee. The rentals payable under the lease arrangements are predicated on the basis of certain tax and financial assumptions at the commencement of the leases. If an assumption proves to be incorrect or there is a change in the applicable tax legislation, the lessor is entitled to increase the rentals so as to maintain its agreed after-tax margin. However, the terms of the lease arrangements enable us and our joint venture partner to terminate the lease arrangement on a voluntary basis at any time. In the event of an early termination of the lease arrangements, the joint venture may be obliged to pay termination sums to the lessor sufficient to repay its investment in the vessels and to compensate it for the tax effect of the terminations, including recapture of tax depreciation, if any. In addition, the subsidiaries of another joint venture formed to service the Tangguh LNG project in Indonesia have entered into lease arrangements with a third party for two LNG carriers, and we intend to purchase Teekay Corporation’s interest in this joint venture in 2009. The terms of the lease arrangements provide similar tax and change of law risk assumption by this joint venture as we have with the three LNG carriers above. The continuation of recent economic conditions, including disruptions in the global credit markets, could adversely affect our results of operations. The recent economic downturn and financial crisis in the global markets have produced illiquidity in the capital markets, market volatility, heightened exposure to interest rate and credit risks and reduced access to capital markets. If this economic downturn continues, we may face restricted access to the capital markets or secured debt lenders, such as our revolving credit facilities. The decreased access to such resources could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The recent economic downturn may affect our customers’ ability to charter our vessels and pay for our services and may adversely affect our business and results of operations. The recent economic downturn in the global financial markets may lead to a decline in our customers’ operations or ability to pay for our services, which could result in decreased demand for our vessels and services. Our customer’s inability to pay could also result in their default on our current contracts and charters. The decline in the amount of services requested by our customers or their default on our contracts with them could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot determine whether the difficult conditions in the economy and the financial markets will improve or worsen in the near future. Some of our subsidiaries are classified as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which could result in additional tax. Our subsidiaries Arctic Spirit LLC and Polar Spirit LLC, which own the two LNG carriers, are classified as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As such, if these subsidiaries (and any other subsidiary classified as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes) fail to qualify for an exemption from U.S. federal income tax on the U.S. source portion of our income attributable to transportation that begins or ends (but not both) in the United States, the subsidiaries may be subject to U.S. federal income tax on such income. The imposition of this tax would result in decreased cash available for distribution to common unitholders. Please see Item 4 - - Information on the Partnership: D. Taxation of the Partnership: United States Taxation: Taxation of Operating Income. In addition, these subsidiaries could be treated as passive foreign investment companies (or PFICs) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. U.S. shareholders of a PFIC are subject to an adverse U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC, and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their interests in the PFIC. For a discussion of the consequences of possible PFIC classification on our unitholders, please read Item 10 — Additional Information: Taxation to Unitholders — United States Tax Consequences: Consequences of Possible PFIC Classification. The Internal Revenue Service (or IRS) may challenge the manner in which we value our assets in determining the amount of income, gain, loss and deduction allocable to the unitholders, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. A unitholder’s taxable income or loss with respect to a common unit each year will depend upon a number of factors, including the nature and fair market value of our assets at the time the holder acquired the common unit, whether we issue additional units or whether we engage in certain other transactions, and the manner in which our items of income, gain, loss and deduction are allocated among our partners. For this purpose, we determine the value of our assets and the relative amounts of our items of income, gain, loss and deduction allocable to our unitholders and our general partner as holder of the incentive distribution rights by reference to the value of our interests, including the incentive distribution rights. The IRS may challenge any valuation determinations that we make, particularly as to the incentive distribution rights, for which there is no public market. Moreover, the IRS could challenge certain other aspects of the manner in which we determine the relative allocations made to our unitholders and to the general partner as holder of our incentive distribution rights. A successful IRS challenge to our valuation or allocation methods could increase the amount of net taxable income and gain realized by a unitholder with respect to a common unit. Any such IRS challenge, whether or not successful, could adversely affect the value of our common units. 19 If we do not receive a favorable ruling from the IRS related to the type of structure we propose to use for certain of our LPG operations, we may recognize additional non-qualifying income from our LPG operations. Because we also plan to use the same structure for certain of our LNG operations, we may also receive less cash flow than expected from these LNG operations, or none at all, if we do not receive the ruling. We anticipate that the LPG carriers acquired from Skaugen will be held by a foreign subsidiary classified as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes that is wholly owned by a U.S. partnership. We have requested a ruling from the IRS that would cause this foreign subsidiary not to be classified as PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If we do not receive a favorable ruling from the IRS, we anticipate that we would operate the LPG carriers in a pass-through structure rather than a corporation, and thereby avoid PFIC status for those vessels. Doing so would increase the amount of our non-qualifying income for purposes of determining our status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, but we do not anticipate that the amount of this non-qualifying income would be sufficient to jeopardize such status. Please see Item 4 — Information on the Partnership: D. Taxation of the Partnership United States Taxation: Classification as a Partnership. If we receive a favorable ruling with respect to the LPG carrier structure, we anticipate that we will use the same structure to acquire and hold the carriers servicing the Tangguh LNG project. If we do not receive a favorable ruling, we believe placing the two LNG carriers servicing the Tangguh project in a pass-through structure could jeopardize our status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes due to the nature of their charter agreements and the amount of income they generate. Please see 4 D. Taxation of the Partnership: United States Taxation: Classification as a Partnership. In order to preserve our status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, in the event we do not receive a favorable ruling, we would (1) seek to restructure the project, which may provide us less benefit than we originally anticipated or (2) require certain tax elections to be made by unitholders to avoid adverse tax consequences of this subsidiary being treated as a PFIC. For a discussion of the consequences of possible PFIC classification on our unitholders, please see Item 4 — Information on the Partnership: D. Taxation of the Partnership — United States Taxation: Consequences of Possible PFIC Classification. If any of these alternatives are not satisfactory to us, we may not acquire Teekay Corporation’s interest in the two LNG carriers and related charters. In that case, we would not receive the cash flow we currently expect to receive from this project. If the IRS does not grant Teekay Holdings Limited’s request for an extension of time to make an election to be classified as a disregarded entity for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we may not be able to continue to rely on the ruling we received from the IRS that our income derived from certain time charters is qualifying income under Section 7704(d) of the Internal Revenue Code and, as a result, there is greater uncertainty as to whether we will be classified as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. On May 11, 2007, Teekay Corporation transferred its greater than 50% interest in our capital and profits to its wholly-owned subsidiary, Teekay Holdings Limited. Teekay Holdings Limited did not timely elect to be classified as a disregarded subsidiary of Teekay Corporation for U.S. tax purposes in connection with this transaction. If the IRS does not grant Teekay Holdings Limited’s request for an extension of time to make an election to be classified as a disregarded entity for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we will be considered, as of May 11, 2007, to have been terminated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and then to have been reconstituted as a new partnership. Please see Item 4 — Information on the Partnership: D. Taxation of the Partnership: United States Taxation: May 2007 Constructive Termination if IRS Does Not Grant Requested Ruling. If we are considered to have been terminated, it is uncertain whether we could continue to rely on the ruling we received from the IRS that our income derived from certain time charters is qualifying income under Section 7704(d) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. If we were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we could be treated as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes and unitholders could be subject to an adverse U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC, and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their interests in the PFIC. For a discussion of the consequences of possible PFIC classification on our unitholders, please see Item 10 — Additional Information: Taxation to Unitholders — United States Tax Consequences: Consequences of Possible PFIC Classification. 