Risk Factors We may not have sufficient cash from operations to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution on our common units following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses. We may not have sufficient cash available each quarter to pay the minimum quarterly distribution. The amount of cash we can distribute on our common units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which may fluctuate based on, among other things: · the rates we obtain from our charters; · the level of our operating costs, such as the cost of crews and insurance; · the continued availability of LNG and LPG production, liquefaction and regasification facilities; · the number of unscheduled off-hire days for our fleet and the timing of, and number of days required for, scheduled drydocking of our vessels; · delays in the delivery of newbuildings and the beginning of payments under charters relating to those vessels; · prevailing global and regional economic and political conditions; · currency exchange rate fluctuations; and · the effect of governmental regulations and maritime self-regulatory organization standards on the conduct of our business. The actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution also will depend on factors such as: · the level of capital expenditures we make, including for maintaining vessels, building new vessels, acquiring existing vessels and complying with regulations; · our debt service requirements and restrictions on distributions contained in our debt instruments; · fluctuations in our working capital needs; · our ability to make working capital borrowings, including to pay distributions to unitholders; and · the amount of any cash reserves, including reserves for future capital expenditures and other matters, established by our general partner in its discretion. The amount of cash we generate from our operations may differ materially from our profit or loss for the period, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result of this and the other factors mentioned above, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net income. We make substantial capital expenditures to maintain the operating capacity of our fleet, which reduce our cash available for distribution. In addition, each quarter our general partner is required to deduct estimated maintenance capital expenditures from operating surplus, which may result in less cash available to unitholders than if actual maintenance capital expenditures were deducted. We must make substantial capital expenditures to maintain, over the long term, the operating capacity of our fleet. These maintenance capital expenditures include capital expenditures associated with drydocking a vessel, modifying an existing vessel or acquiring a new vessel to the extent these expenditures are incurred to maintain the operating capacity of our fleet. These expenditures could increase as a result of changes in: · the cost of labor and materials; · customer requirements; · increases in the size of our fleet; · governmental regulations and maritime self-regulatory organization standards relating to safety, security or the environment; and · competitive standards. Our significant maintenance capital expenditures will reduce the amount of cash we have available for distribution to our unitholders. In addition, our actual maintenance capital expenditures vary significantly from quarter to quarter based on, among other things, the number of vessels drydocked during that quarter. Our partnership agreement requires our general partner to deduct estimated, rather than actual, maintenance capital expenditures from operating surplus each quarter in an effort to reduce fluctuations in operating surplus. The amount of estimated maintenance capital expenditures deducted from operating surplus is subject to review and change by the conflicts committee at least once a year. In years when estimated maintenance capital expenditures are higher than actual maintenance capital expenditures — as we expect will be the case in the years we are not required to make expenditures for mandatory drydockings — the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders will be lower than if actual maintenance capital expenditures were deducted from operating surplus. If our general partner underestimates the appropriate level of estimated maintenance capital expenditures, we may have less cash available for distribution in future periods when actual capital expenditures begin to exceed our previous estimates. 10 We will be required to make substantial capital expenditures to expand the size of our fleet. We generally are required to make significant installment payments for acquisitions of newbuilding vessels prior to their delivery and generation of revenue. Depending on whether we finance our expenditures through cash from operations or by issuing debt or equity securities, our ability to make cash distributions may be diminished or our financial leverage could increase or our unitholders could be diluted. We intend to make substantial capital expenditures to increase the size of our fleet, particularly the number of LNG and LPG carriers we own. In July and August 2005, Teekay Shipping Corporation announced the awards to it of a 70% interest in two LNG carriers and related long-term, fixed-rate time charters to service the Tangguh LNG project in Indonesia and a 40% interest in four LNG carriers and related long-term, fixed-rate time charters to service an LNG project in Qatar. In connection with these awards, Teekay Shipping Corporation has (a) exercised shipbuilding options to construct two 155,000 cubic meter LNG carriers at a total delivered cost of approximately $450 million, which vessels are scheduled to deliver in late 2008 and early 2009, respectively, and (b) entered into agreements to construct four 217,000 cubic meter LNG carriers at a total delivered cost of approximately $1.1 billion, which vessels are scheduled to deliver in the first half of 2008. On November 1, 2006, we entered into an agreement with Teekay Shipping Corporation to purchase its 70% interest in Teekay Tangguh and its 40% interest in Teekay Nakilat III. The purchases will occur upon the delivery of the first newbuildings for each of the projects, which deliveries are scheduled for 2008. The estimated purchase price for the 70% interest in Teekay Tangguh and the 40% interest in Teekay Nakilat III is $60.0 million and $80.0 million, respectively. In December 2006, we announced that we had agreed to acquire three LPG carriers from I.M. Skaugen ASA (or Skaugen) for approximately $29.2 million per vessel. The vessels are currently under construction and are expected to deliver between early 2008 and mid-2009, when they will be acquired by us. Upon delivery, the vessels will be chartered to Skaugen, which engages in the marine transportation of petrochemical gases and LPG, and the lightering of crude oil, at fixed rates, for a period of 15 years. In addition, we are obligated to purchase five of our existing Suezmax tankers upon the termination of the related capital leases, which will occur at various times from 2007 to 2011, seven years from the respective commencement dates of the capital leases. The purchase price will be based on the unamortized portion of the vessel construction financing costs for the vessels, which we expect to range from $39.4 million to $41.9 million per vessel. We expect to satisfy the purchase obligation by assuming the existing vessel financing. We and Teekay Shipping Corporation regularly evaluate and pursue opportunities to provide the marine transportation requirements for new or expanding LNG projects. Teekay Shipping Corporation currently has submitted bids to provide transportation solutions for LNG projects and we and Teekay Shipping Corporation may submit additional bids from time to time. The award process relating to LNG transportation opportunities typically involves various stages and takes several months to complete. The award process for some of the projects upon which Teekay Shipping Corporation has bid are in advanced stages. Neither we nor Teekay Shipping Corporation may be awarded charters relating to any of the projects we or it pursues. If any LNG project charters are awarded to Teekay Shipping Corporation, it must offer them to us pursuant to the terms of an omnibus agreement. If we elect pursuant to the omnibus agreement to obtain Teekay Shipping Corporation’s interests in any projects Teekay Shipping Corporation may be awarded, or if we bid on and are awarded contracts relating to any LNG project, we will need to incur significant capital expenditures to buy Teekay Shipping Corporation’s interest in these LNG projects or to build the LNG carriers. To fund the remaining portion of these and other capital expenditures, we will be required to use cash from operations or incur borrowings or raise capital through the sale of debt or additional equity securities. Use of cash from operations will reduce cash available for distributions to unitholders. Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for future offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering as well as by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Our failure to obtain the funds for necessary future capital expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and on our ability to make cash distributions. Even if we are successful in obtaining necessary funds, the terms of such financings could limit our ability to pay cash distributions to unitholders. In addition, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, and issuing additional equity securities may result in significant unitholder dilution and would increase the aggregate amount of cash required to meet our minimum quarterly distribution to unitholders, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to make cash distributions. If we were unable to obtain financing required to complete payments on any future newbuilding orders, we could effectively forfeit all or a portion of the progress payments previously made. Our ability to grow may be adversely affected by our cash distribution policy. Our cash distribution policy, which is consistent with our partnership agreement, requires us to distribute all of our available cash each quarter. Accordingly, our growth may not be as fast as businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. Our substantial debt levels may limit our flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities. As of December 31, 2006, our consolidated debt, capital lease obligations and advances from affiliates totaled $1.6 billion and we had the capacity to borrow an additional $415.6 million under our credit facilities. These facilities may be used by us for general partnership purposes. If we are awarded contracts for new LNG or LPG projects, our consolidated debt and capital lease obligations will increase, perhaps significantly. We will continue to have the ability to incur additional debt, subject to limitations in our credit facilities. Our level of debt could have important consequences to us, including the following: · our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; · we will need a substantial portion of our cash flow to make principal and interest payments on our debt, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to unitholders; 11 · our debt level will make us more vulnerable than our competitors with less debt to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and · our debt level may limit our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt, or seeking additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. We may not be able to affect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms, or at all. Financing agreements containing operating and financial restrictions may restrict our business and financing activities. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our financing arrangements and any future financing agreements for us could adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage, expand or pursue our business activities. For example, the arrangements may restrict our ability to: · incur or guarantee indebtedness; · change ownership or structure, including mergers, consolidations, liquidations and dissolutions; · make dividends or distributions when in default of the relevant loans; · make certain negative pledges and grant certain liens; · sell, transfer, assign or convey assets; · make certain investments; and · enter into a new line of business. In addition, some of our financing arrangements require us to maintain a minimum level of tangible net worth, a minimum level of aggregate liquidity, a maximum level of leverage and requires one of our subsidiaries to maintain restricted cash deposits. Our ability to comply with covenants and restrictions contained in debt instruments may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, compliance with these covenants may be impaired. If restrictions, covenants, ratios or tests in the financing agreements are breached, a significant portion of the obligations may become immediately due and payable, and the lenders’ commitment to make further loans may terminate. We might have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. In addition, our obligations under our existing credit facilities are secured by certain of our vessels, and if we are unable to repay debt under the credit facilities, the lenders could seek to foreclose on those assets. Restrictions in our debt agreements may prevent us from paying distributions. The payment of principal and interest on our debt and capital lease obligations will reduce cash available for distribution to us and on our units. In addition, our financing agreements will prohibit the payment of distributions upon the occurrence of the following events, among others: · failure to pay any principal, interest, fees, expenses or other amounts when due; · failure to notify the lenders of any material oil spill or discharge of hazardous material, or of any action or claim related thereto; · breach or lapse of any insurance with respect to the vessels; · breach of certain financial covenants; · failure to observe any other agreement, security instrument, obligation or covenant beyond specified cure periods in certain cases; · default under other indebtedness; · bankruptcy or insolvency events; · failure of any representation or warranty to be materially correct; · a change of control, as defined in the applicable agreement; and · a material adverse effect, as defined in the applicable agreement. We derive a substantial majority of our revenues from a limited number of customers, and the loss of any customer, time charter or vessel could result in a significant loss of revenues and cash flow. We have derived, and believe that we will continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenues and cash flow from a limited number of customers. Compania Espanola de Petroleos, S.A. (or CEPSA), an international oil company, accounted for approximately 36%, 30% and 30% of our revenues during 2004, 2005, and 2006, respectively. In addition, two other customers, Spanish energy companies Repsol YPF, S.A. and Gas Natural SDG, S.A., accounted for 18% and 21% of our revenues in 2004, 33% and 18% of our revenues in 2005, and 27% and 13% of our revenues in 2006, respectively. Unión Fenosa Gas, S.A. accounted for 16% of our revenues in 2005 and 13% of our revenues in 2006. As a result of our acquisition of 12 the three Suezmax tankers (or the ConocoPhillips Tankers) from Teekay Shipping Corporation upon the closing of our follow-on pubic offering on November 23, 2005, we also derived 16% of our revenues in 2006 from a ConocoPhillips subsidiary, the customer under the related time charter contracts. Collectively, these customers accounted for approximately 75%, 97%, and 99% of our revenues during 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively. No other customer accounted for 10% or more of our revenues during any of these periods. Likewise, Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Co. Limited (II) (or RasGas II) will be a significant customer following the delivery in 2007 of the remaining two LNG newbuildings we have purchased from Teekay Shipping Corporation and commencement of payments by RasGas II under the related time charters. We could lose a customer or the benefits of a time charter if: · the customer fails to make charter payments because of its financial inability, disagreements with us or otherwise; · the customer exercises certain rights to terminate the charter, purchase or cause the sale of the vessel or, under some of our charters, convert the time charter to a bareboat charter (some of which rights are exercisable at any time); · the customer terminates the charter because we fail to deliver the vessel within a fixed period of time, the vessel is lost or damaged beyond repair, there are serious deficiencies in the vessel or prolonged periods of off-hire, or we default under the charter; or · under some of our time charters, the customer terminates the charter because of the termination of the charterer’s LNG sales agreement supplying the LNG designated for our services, or a prolonged force majeure event affecting the customer, including damage to or destruction of relevant LNG production or regasification facilities, war or political unrest preventing us from performing services for that customer. If we lose a key LNG time charter, we may be unable to re-deploy the related vessel on terms as favorable to us due to the long-term nature of most LNG time charters and the lack of an established LNG spot market. If we are unable to re-deploy an LNG carrier, we will not receive any revenues from that vessel, but we may be required to pay expenses necessary to maintain the vessel in proper operating condition. In addition, if a customer exercises its right to purchase a vessel, we would not receive any further revenue from the vessel and may be unable to obtain a substitute vessel and charter. This may cause us to receive decreased revenue and cash flows from having fewer vessels operating in our fleet. Any compensation under our charters for a purchase of the vessels may not adequately compensate us for the loss of the vessel and related time charter. If we lose a key Suezmax tanker customer, we may be unable to obtain other long-term Suezmax charters and may become subject to the volatile spot market, which is highly competitive and subject to significant price fluctuations. If a customer exercises its right under some charters to purchase or force a sale of the vessel, we may be unable to acquire an adequate replacement vessel or may be forced to construct a new vessel. Any replacement newbuilding would not generate revenues during its construction and we may be unable to charter any replacement vessel on terms as favorable to us as those of the terminated charter. The loss of any of our customers, time charters or vessels, or a decline in payments under our charters, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. We depend on Teekay Shipping Corporation to assist us in operating our business, competing in our markets, and providing interim financing for certain vessel acquisitions. Pursuant to certain services agreements between us and certain of our operating subsidiaries, on the one hand, and certain subsidiaries of Teekay Shipping Corporation, on the other hand, the Teekay Shipping Corporation subsidiaries provide to us administrative services and to our operating subsidiaries significant operational services (including vessel maintenance, crewing for some of our vessels, purchasing, shipyard supervision, insurance and financial services) and other technical, advisory and administrative services. Our operational success and ability to execute our growth strategy depend significantly upon Teekay Shipping Corporation’s satisfactory performance of these services. Our business will be harmed if Teekay Shipping Corporation fails to perform these services satisfactorily or if Teekay Shipping Corporation stops providing these services to us. Our ability to compete for the transportation requirements of LNG projects and to enter into new time charters and expand our customer relationships depends largely on our ability to leverage our relationship with Teekay Shipping Corporation and its reputation and relationships in the shipping industry. If Teekay Shipping Corporation suffers material damage to its reputation or relationships it may harm our ability to: · renew existing charters upon their expiration; · obtain new charters; · successfully interact with shipyards during periods of shipyard construction constraints; · obtain financing on commercially acceptable terms; or · maintain satisfactory relationships with our employees and suppliers. If our ability to do any of the things described above is impaired, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. Teekay Shipping Corporation is also incurring all costs for the construction and delivery of the four RasGas 3 LNG newbuildings and the two Tangguh newbuildings, which we refer to as “warehousing.” Upon their delivery, we will purchase all of the interest of Teekay Shipping Corporation in the vessels at a price that will reimburse Teekay Shipping Corporation for these costs and compensate it for its average weighted cost of capital on the construction payments. We may enter into similar arrangements with Teekay Shipping Corporation or third parties in the future. If Teekay Shipping Corporation or any such third party fails to make construction payments for these newbuildings or other vessels warehoused for us, we could lose access to the vessels as a result of the default or we may need to finance these vessels before they begin operating and generating voyage revenues, which could harm our business and reduce our ability to make cash distributions. 13 Our growth depends on continued growth in demand for LNG and LNG shipping. Our growth strategy focuses on continued expansion in the LNG shipping sector. Accordingly, our growth depends on continued growth in world and regional demand for LNG and LNG shipping, which could be negatively affected by a number of factors, such as: · increases in the cost of natural gas derived from LNG relative to the cost of natural gas generally; · increases in the production of natural gas in areas linked by pipelines to consuming areas, the extension of existing, or the development of new, pipeline systems in markets we may serve, or the conversion of existing non-natural gas pipelines to natural gas pipelines in those markets; · decreases in the consumption of natural gas due to increases in its price relative to other energy sources or other factors making consumption of natural gas less attractive; · availability of new, alternative energy sources, including compressed natural gas; and · negative global or regional economic or political conditions, particularly in LNG consuming regions, which could reduce energy consumption or its growth. Reduced demand for LNG and LNG shipping would have a material adverse effect on our future growth and could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Growth of the LNG market may be limited by infrastructure constraints and community environmental group resistance to new LNG infrastructure over concerns about the environment, safety and terrorism A complete LNG project includes production, liquefaction, regasification, storage and distribution facilities and LNG carriers. Existing LNG projects and infrastructure are limited, and new or expanded LNG projects are highly complex and capital-intensive, with new projects often costing several billion dollars. Many factors could negatively affect continued development of LNG infrastructure or disrupt the supply of LNG, including: · increases in interest rates or other events that may affect the availability of sufficient financing for LNG projects on commercially reasonable terms; · decreases in the price of LNG, which might decrease the expected returns relating to investments in LNG projects; · the inability of project owners or operators to obtain governmental approvals to construct or operate LNG facilities; · local community resistance to proposed or existing LNG facilities based on safety, environmental or security concerns; · any significant explosion, spill or similar incident involving an LNG facility or LNG carrier; · labor or political unrest affecting existing or proposed areas of LNG production; and · capacity constraints at existing shipyards, which are expected to continue until at least the end of the decade. If the LNG supply chain is disrupted or does not continue to grow, or if a significant LNG explosion, spill or similar incident occurs, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. Our growth depends on our ability to expand relationships with existing customers and obtain new customers, for which we will face substantial competition. One of our principal objectives is to enter into additional long-term, fixed-rate LNG time charters. The process of obtaining new long-term LNG time charters is highly competitive and generally involves an intensive screening process and competitive bids, and often extends for several months. LNG shipping contracts are awarded based upon a variety of factors relating to the vessel operator, including: · shipping industry relationships and reputation for customer service and safety; · LNG shipping experience and quality of ship operations (including cost effectiveness); · quality and experience of seafaring crew; · the ability to finance LNG carriers at competitive rates and financial stability generally; · relationships with shipyards and the ability to get suitable berths; · construction management experience, including the ability to obtain on-time delivery of new vessels according to customer specifications; · willingness to accept operational risks pursuant to the charter, such as allowing termination of the charter for force majeure events; and · competitiveness of the bid in terms of overall price. We compete for providing marine transportation services for potential LNG projects with a number of experienced companies, including state-sponsored entities and major energy companies affiliated with the LNG project requiring LNG shipping services. Many of these competitors have 14 significantly greater financial resources than we do or Teekay Shipping Corporation does. We anticipate that an increasing number of marine transportation companies — including many with strong reputations and extensive resources and experience — will enter the LNG transportation sector. This increased competition may cause greater price competition for time charters. As a result of these factors, we may be unable to expand our relationships with existing customers or to obtain new customers on a profitable basis, if at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. Delays in deliveries of newbuildings could harm our operating results and lead to the termination of related time charters. We have agreed to purchase Teekay Shipping Corporation’s 40% interest in the four newbuilding LNG carriers that will service the RasGas 3 project and its 70% interest in the two newbuilding LNG carriers that will service the Tangguh LNG projects, in each case upon the first vessel deliveries for the respective projects. The delivery of these vessels, or any other newbuildings we may order or otherwise acquire, could be delayed, which would delay our receipt of revenues under the time charters for the vessels. In addition, under some of our charters if our delivery of a vessel to our customer is delayed, we may be required to pay liquidated damages in amounts equal to or, under some charters, almost double, the hire rate during the delay. For prolonged delays, the customer may terminate the time charter and, in addition to the resulting loss of revenues, we may be responsible for additional, substantial liquidated damages. Our receipt of newbuildings could be delayed because of: · quality or engineering problems; · changes in governmental regulations or maritime self-regulatory organization standards; · work stoppages or other labor disturbances at the shipyard; · bankruptcy or other financial crisis of the shipbuilder; · a backlog of orders at the shipyard; · political or economic disturbances in South Korea or other locations, where our vessels are being or may be built; · weather interference or catastrophic event, such as a major earthquake or fire; · our requests for changes to the original vessel specifications; · shortages of or delays in the receipt of necessary construction materials, such as steel; · our inability to finance the purchase of the vessels; or · our inability to obtain requisite permits or approvals. If delivery of a vessel is materially delayed, it could adversely affect our results or operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. We may have more difficulty entering into long-term, fixed-rate time charters if an active short-term or spot LNG shipping market develops. LNG shipping historically has been transacted with long-term, fixed-rate time charters, usually with terms ranging from 20 to 25 years. One of our principal strategies is to enter into additional long-term, fixed-rate LNG time charters. However, the number of spot and short-term charters has been increasing, with LNG charters under 12 months in duration growing from less than 2% of the market in the late 1990s to almost 13% in 2006. For example, substantially all LNG shipped into the Lake Charles, Louisiana terminal in 2004 was shipped under short-term charters. If an active spot or short-term market continues to develop, we may have increased difficulty entering into long-term, fixed-rate time charters for our LNG vessels and, as a result, our cash flow may decrease and be less stable. In addition, an active short-term or spot LNG market may require us to enter into charters based on changing market prices, as opposed to contracts based on a fixed rate, which could result in a decrease in our cash flow in periods when the market price for shipping LNG is depressed or insufficient funds are available to cover our financing costs for related vessels. Over time, vessel values may fluctuate substantially and, if these values are lower at a time when we are attempting to dispose of a vessel, we may incur a loss. Vessel values for LNG and LPG carriers and Suezmax oil tankers can fluctuate substantially over time due to a number of different factors, including: · prevailing economic conditions in natural gas, oil and energy markets; · a substantial or extended decline in demand for natural gas, LNG, LPG or oil; · increases in the supply of vessel capacity, and 15 · the cost of retrofitting or modifying existing vessels, as a result of technological advances in vessel design or equipment, changes in applicable environmental or other regulation or standards, or otherwise. If a charter terminates, we may be unable to re-deploy the vessel at attractive rates and, rather than continue to incur costs to maintain and finance it, may seek to dispose of it. Our inability to dispose of the vessel at a reasonable value could result in a loss on its sale and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may be unable to make or realize expected benefits from acquisitions, and implementing our growth strategy through acquisitions may harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Our growth strategy includes selectively acquiring existing LNG carriers or LNG shipping businesses. Historically, there have been very few purchases of existing vessels and businesses in the LNG shipping industry. Factors that may contribute to a limited number of acquisition opportunities in the LNG industry in the near term include the relatively small number of independent LNG fleet owners and the limited number of LNG carriers not subject to existing long-term charter contracts. In addition, competition from other companies could reduce our acquisition opportunities or cause us to pay higher prices. Any acquisition of a vessel or business may not be profitable to us at or after the time we acquire it and may not generate cash flow sufficient to justify our investment. In addition, our acquisition growth strategy exposes us to risks that may harm our business, financial condition and operating results, including risks that we may: · fail to realize anticipated benefits, such as new customer relationships, cost-savings or cash flow enhancements; · be unable to hire, train or retain qualified shore and seafaring personnel to manage and operate our growing business and fleet; · decrease our liquidity by using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance acquisitions; · significantly increase our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance acquisitions; · incur or assume unanticipated liabilities, losses or costs associated with the business or vessels acquired; or · incur other significant charges, such as impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, asset devaluation or restructuring charges. Unlike newbuildings, existing vessels typically do not carry warranties as to their condition. While we generally inspect existing vessels prior to purchase, such an inspection would normally not provide us with as much knowledge of a vessel’s condition as we would possess if it had been built for us and operated by us during its life. Repairs and maintenance costs for existing vessels are difficult to predict and may be substantially higher than for vessels we have operated since they were built. These costs could decrease our cash flow and reduce our liquidity. Terrorist attacks, increased hostilities or war could lead to further economic instability, increased costs and disruption of our business. Terrorist attacks, and the current conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan and other current and future conflicts, may adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition, ability to raise capital and future growth. Continuing hostilities in the Middle East may lead to additional armed conflicts or to further acts of terrorism and civil disturbance in the United States, Spain or elsewhere, which may contribute further to economic instability and disruption of LNG and oil production and distribution, which could result in reduced demand for our services. In addition, LNG and oil facilities, shipyards, vessels, pipelines and oil and gas fields could be targets of future terrorist attacks. Any such attacks could lead to, among other things, bodily injury or loss of life, vessel or other property damage, increased vessel operational costs, including insurance costs, and the inability to transport LNG, natural gas and oil to or from certain locations. Terrorist attacks, war or other events beyond our control that adversely affect the distribution, production or transportation of LNG or oil to be shipped by us could entitle our customers to terminate our charter contracts, which would harm our cash flow and our business. Terrorist attacks, or the perception that LNG facilities and LNG carriers are potential terrorist targets, could materially and adversely affect expansion of LNG infrastructure and the continued supply of LNG to the United States and other countries. Concern that LNG facilities may be targeted for attack by terrorists has contributed to significant community and environmental resistance to the construction of a number of LNG facilities, primarily in North America. If a terrorist incident involving an LNG facility or LNG carrier did occur, in addition to the possible effects identified in the previous paragraph, the incident may adversely affect construction of additional LNG facilities in the United States and other countries or lead to the temporary or permanent closing of various LNG facilities currently in operation. Our substantial operations outside the United States expose us to political, governmental and economic instability, which could harm our operations. Because our operations are primarily conducted outside of the United States, they may be affected by economic, political and governmental conditions in the countries where we are engaged in business or where our vessels are registered. Any disruption caused by these factors could harm our business. In particular, we derive a substantial portion of our revenues from shipping LNG and oil from politically unstable regions. Past political conflicts in these regions, particularly in the Arabian Gulf, have included attacks on ships, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt shipping in the area. In addition to acts of terrorism, vessels trading in this and other regions have also been subject, in limited instances, to piracy. Future hostilities or other political instability in the Arabian Gulf or other regions where we operate or may operate could have a material adverse effect on the growth of our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. In addition, tariffs, trade embargoes and other economic sanctions by Spain, the United States or other countries against countries in the Middle East, Southeast Asia or elsewhere as a result of terrorist attacks, hostilities or otherwise may limit trading activities with those countries, which could also harm our business and ability to make cash distributions. 16 Marine transportation is inherently risky, and an incident involving significant loss of or environmental contamination by any of our vessels could harm our reputation and business. Our vessels and their cargoes are at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as: · marine disasters; · bad weather; · mechanical failures; · grounding, fire, explosions and collisions; · piracy; · human error; and · war and terrorism. An accident involving any of our vessels could result in any of the following: · death or injury to persons, loss of property or environmental damage; · delays in the delivery of cargo; · loss of revenues from or termination of charter contracts; · governmental fines, penalties or restrictions on conducting business; · higher insurance rates; and · damage to our reputation and customer relationships generally. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our insurance may be insufficient to cover losses that may occur to our property or result from our operations. The operation of LNG carriers and oil tankers is inherently risky. Although we carry hull and machinery (marine and war risks) and protection and indemnity insurance, all risks may not be adequately insured against, and any particular claim may not be paid. In addition, we do not carry insurance on our oil tankers covering the loss of revenues resulting from vessel off-hire time based on its cost compared to our off-hire experience. Commencing January 1, 2006, Teekay Shipping Corporation began providing off-hire insurance for our LNG carriers. Any claims covered by insurance would be subject to deductibles, and since it is possible that a large number of claims may be brought, the aggregate amount of these deductibles could be material. Certain of our insurance coverage is maintained through mutual protection and indemnity associations, and as a member of such associations we may be required to make additional payments over and above budgeted premiums if member claims exceed association reserves. We may be unable to procure adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates in the future. For example, more stringent environmental regulations have led in the past to increased costs for, and in the future may result in the lack of availability of, insurance against risks of environmental damage or pollution. A catastrophic oil spill or marine disaster could result in losses that exceed our insurance coverage, which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Any uninsured or underinsured loss could harm our business and financial condition. In addition, our insurance may be voidable by the insurers as a result of certain of our actions, such as our ships failing to maintain certification with applicable maritime self-regulatory organizations. Changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks may also make certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain. In addition, the insurance that may be available may be significantly more expensive than our existing coverage. The marine energy transportation industry is subject to substantial environmental and other regulations, which may significantly limit our operations or increase our expenses. Our operations are affected by extensive and changing environmental protection laws and other regulations and international conventions. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, substantial expenses in complying with these laws and regulations, including expenses for vessel modifications and changes in operating procedures. Additional laws and regulations may be adopted that could limit our ability to do business or further increase our costs. In addition, failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of our operations. The United States Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (or OPA 90), for instance, increased expenses for us and others in our industry. OPA 90 provides for potentially unlimited joint, several and strict liability for owners, operators and demise or bareboat charterers for oil pollution and related damages in U.S. waters, which include the U.S. territorial sea and the 200-nautical mile exclusive economic zone around the United States. OPA 90 applies to discharges of any oil from a vessel, including discharges of oil tanker cargoes and discharges of fuel and lubricants from an oil tanker or LNG carrier. To comply with OPA 90, vessel owners generally incur increased costs in meeting additional maintenance and inspection requirements, in developing contingency arrangements for potential spills and in obtaining required insurance coverage. OPA 90 requires vessel owners and operators of vessels operating in U.S. waters to establish and maintain with the U.S. Coast Guard evidence of insurance or of qualification as a self-insurer or other acceptable evidence of financial responsibility sufficient to meet certain potential liabilities under OPA 90 and the 17 U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (or CERCLA), which imposes similar liabilities upon owners, operators and bareboat charterers of vessels from which a discharge of “hazardous substances” (other than oil) occurs. While LNG should not be considered a hazardous substance under CERCLA, additives to fuel oil or lubricants used on LNG carriers might fall within its scope. Under OPA 90 and CERCLA, owners, operators and bareboat charterers are jointly, severally and strictly liable for costs of cleanup and damages resulting from a discharge or threatened discharge within U.S. waters. This means we may be subject to liability even if we are not negligent or at fault. Most states in the United States bordering on a navigable waterway have enacted legislation providing for potentially unlimited strict liability without regard to fault for the discharge of pollutants within their waters. An oil spill or other event could result in significant liability, including fines, penalties, criminal liability and costs for natural resource damages. The potential for these releases could increase to the extent we increase our operations in U.S. waters. OPA 90 and CERCLA do not preclude claimants from seeking damages for the discharge of oil and hazardous substances under other applicable law, including maritime tort law. Such claims could include attempts to characterize seaborne transportation of LNG as an ultra-hazardous activity, which attempts, if successful, would lead to our being strictly liable for damages resulting from that activity. In addition, we believe that the heightened environmental, quality and security concerns of insurance underwriters, regulators and charterers will generally lead to additional regulatory requirements, including enhanced risk assessment and security requirements and greater inspection and safety requirements on all vessels in the LNG carrier and oil tanker markets. Exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations will result in fluctuations in our cash flows and operating results. We are paid in Euros under some of our charters, and a majority of our vessel operating expenses and general and administrative expenses currently are denominated in Euros, which is primarily a function of the nationality of our crew and administrative staff. We also make payments under two Euro-denominated term loans. If the amount of our Euro-denominated obligations exceeds our Euro-denominated revenues, we must convert other currencies, primarily the U.S. Dollar, into Euros. An increase in the strength of the Euro relative to the U.S. Dollar would require us to convert more U.S. Dollars to Euros to satisfy those obligations, which would cause us to have less cash available for distribution. In addition, if we do not have sufficient U.S. Dollars, we may be required to convert Euros into U.S. Dollars for distributions to unitholders. An increase in the strength of the U.S. Dollar relative to the Euro could cause us to have less cash available for distribution in this circumstance. We have not entered into currency swaps or forward contracts or similar derivatives to mitigate this risk. Because we report our operating results in U.S. Dollars, changes in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to the Euro also result in fluctuations in our reported revenues and earnings. In addition, under U.S. accounting guidelines, all foreign currency-denominated monetary assets and liabilities such as cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, restricted cash, accounts payable, long-term debt and capital lease obligations, are revalued and reported based on the prevailing exchange rate at the end of the period. This revaluation historically has caused us to report significant non-monetary foreign currency exchange gains or losses each period. The primary source for these gains and losses is our Euro-denominated term loans. In 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2006, we reported foreign currency exchange losses of $44.3 million, $71.5 million, $60.8 million and $39.5, respectively. In 2005, we reported a foreign currency exchange gain of $81.8 million. Many of our seafaring employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements and the failure to renew those agreements or any future labor agreements may disrupt our operations and adversely affect our cash flows. A significant portion of our seafarers, and the seafarers employed by Teekay Shipping Corporation and its other affiliates that crew our vessels, are employed under collective bargaining agreements, which expire at varying times through 2008. The collective bargaining agreement for our Spanish Suezmax tanker crew members (covering five Suezmax tankers) and the collective bargaining agreement for our Spanish LNG tanker crew members (covering four LNG tankers) expire at the end of 2008. We may be subject to similar labor agreements in the future. We may be subject to labor disruptions in the future if our relationships deteriorate with our seafarers or the unions that represent them. Our collective bargaining agreements may not prevent labor disruptions, particularly when the agreements are being renegotiated. Any labor disruptions could harm our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. Due to our lack of diversification, adverse developments in our LNG or oil marine transportation business could reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. We rely exclusively on the cash flow generated from our LNG carriers and Suezmax oil tankers that operate in the LNG and oil marine transportation business. Due to our lack of diversification, an adverse development in the LNG or oil shipping industry would have a significantly greater impact on our financial condition and results of operations than if we maintained more diverse assets or lines of business. Teekay Shipping Corporation and its affiliates may engage in competition with us. Teekay Shipping Corporation and its affiliates, including Teekay Offshore Partners L.P. (or Teekay Offshore), may engage in competition with us. Pursuant to an omnibus agreement between Teekay Shipping Corporation, Teekay Offshore, us and other related parties, Teekay Shipping Corporation, Teekay Offshore and their respective controlled affiliates (other than us and our subsidiaries) generally will agree not to own, operate or charter LNG carriers without the consent of our general partner. The omnibus agreement, however, allows Teekay Shipping Corporation, Teekay Offshore or any of such controlled affiliates to: · acquire LNG carriers and related time charters as part of a business if a majority of the value of the total assets or business acquired is not attributable to the LNG carriers and time charters, as determined in good faith by the board of directors of Teekay Shipping Corporation or the board of directors of Teekay Offshore’s general partner; however, if at any time Teekay Shipping Corporation or Teekay Offshore completes such an acquisition, it must offer to sell the LNG carriers and related time charters to us for their fair market value plus any additional tax or other similar costs to Teekay Shipping Corporation or Teekay Offshore that would be required to transfer the LNG carriers and time charters to us separately from the acquired business; or 18 · own, operate and charter LNG carriers that relate to a bid or award for a proposed LNG project that Teekay Shipping Corporation or any of its subsidiaries has submitted or hereafter submits or receives; however, at least 180 days prior to the scheduled delivery date of any such LNG carrier, Teekay Shipping Corporation must offer to sell the LNG carrier and related time charter to us, with the vessel valued at its “fully-built-up cost,” which represents the aggregate expenditures incurred (or to be incurred prior to delivery to us) by Teekay Shipping Corporation to acquire or construct and bring such LNG carrier to the condition and location necessary for our intended use, plus a reasonable allocation of overhead costs related to the development of such a project and other projects that would have been subject to the offer rights set forth in the omnibus agreement but were not completed. If we decline the offer to purchase the LNG carriers and time charters described above, Teekay Shipping Corporation or Teekay Offshore may own and operate the LNG carriers, but may not expand that portion of its business. In addition, pursuant to the omnibus agreement, Teekay Shipping Corporation, Teekay Offshore or any of their respective controlled affiliates (other than us and our subsidiaries) may: · acquire, operate or charter LNG carriers if our general partner has previously advised Teekay Shipping Corporation or Teekay Offshore that the board of directors of our general partner has elected, with the approval of its conflicts committee, not to cause us or our subsidiaries to acquire or operate the carriers; · acquire up to a 9.9% equity ownership, voting or profit participation interest in any publicly traded company that owns or operate LNG carriers; and · provide ship management services relating to LNG carriers. If there is a change of control of Teekay Shipping Corporation or Teekay Offshore, the non-competition provisions of the omnibus agreement may terminate, which termination could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. Our general partner and its other affiliates have conflicts of interest and limited fiduciary duties, which may permit them to favor their own interests to those of unitholders. Teekay Shipping Corporation, which owns and controls our general partner, indirectly owns the 2% general partner interest and currently owns a 65.8% limited partner interest in us. Conflicts of interest may arise between Teekay Shipping Corporation and its affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations: · neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires our general partner or Teekay Shipping Corporation to pursue a business strategy that favors us or utilizes our assets, and Teekay Shipping Corporation’s officers and directors have a fiduciary duty to make decisions in the best interests of the stockholders of Teekay Shipping Corporation, which may be contrary to our interests; · the executive officers and three of the directors of our general partner also currently serve as executive officers or directors of Teekay Shipping Corporation and another director of our general partner is employed by an affiliate of Teekay Shipping Corporation; · our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as Teekay Shipping Corporation, in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its fiduciary duty to our unitholders; · our general partner has limited its liability and reduced its fiduciary duties under the laws of the Marshall Islands, while also restricting the remedies available to our unitholders, and as a result of purchasing common units, unitholders are treated as having agreed to the modified standard of fiduciary duties and to certain actions that may be taken by our general partner, all as set forth in the partnership agreement; · our general partner determines the amount and timing of our asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures, borrowings, issuances of additional partnership securities and reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is available for distribution to our unitholders; · in some instances, our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make a distribution on the subordinated units or to make incentive distributions or to accelerate the expiration of the subordination period; · our general partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us; · our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us on terms that are fair and reasonable or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf; · our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by it and its affiliates; and · our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us. Tax Indemnification. The Partnership purchased from Teekay Shipping Corporation its 70% interest in Teekay Nakilat. Teekay Nakilat has a 30-year capital lease arrangement for three LNG carriers, one of which delivered on October 31, 2006. Under the terms of the RasGas II capital lease arrangements, the lessor claims tax depreciation on the capital expenditures it incurred to acquire these vessels. As is typical in these leasing arrangements, tax and 19 change of law risks are assumed by the lessee. The rentals payable under the lease arrangements are predicated on the basis of certain tax and financial assumptions at the commencement of the leases. If an assumption proves to be incorrect, the lessor is entitled to increase the rentals so as to maintain its agreed after-tax margin. However, the terms of the lease arrangements enable Teekay Nakilat to terminate the lease arrangement on a voluntary basis at any time. In the event of a termination of the lease arrangements, Teekay Nakilat would be obliged to pay termination sums to the lessor sufficient to repay its investment in the vessels and to compensate it for the tax effect of the terminations, including recapture of tax depreciation, if any. Item 