Risk Factors” section, you should not expect to be able to own a significant percentage of our shares. Payment of fees to Cole Advisors II and its affiliates reduces cash available for investment and distribution. Cole Advisors II and its affiliates perform services for us in connection with our offer and sale of our shares, the selection and acquisition of our investments, and the management and leasing of our properties, the servicing of our mortgage loans, if any, and the administration of our other investments. They are paid substantial fees for these services, which reduces the amount of cash available for investment in properties or distribution to stockholders. We may be unable to pay or maintain cash distributions or increase distributions over time. There are many factors that can affect the availability and timing of cash distributions to stockholders. Distributions will be based principally on cash available from our operations. The amount of cash available for distributions is affected by many factors, such as our ability to buy properties as offering proceeds become available, rental income from such properties, and our operating expense levels, as well as many other variables. Actual cash available for distributions may vary substantially from estimates. We may not be able to pay or maintain our current level of distributions or increase distributions over time. Rents from the properties may not increase, or may decrease, we may experience increased vacancies, the securities we buy may not increase in value or provide constant or increased distributions over time, and future acquisitions of real properties, mortgage loans and any investments in securities may not increase our cash available for distributions to stockholders. Our actual results may differ significantly from the assumptions used by our board of directors in establishing the distribution rate to stockholders. We may not have sufficient cash from operations to make a distribution required to maintain our REIT status. 22 Table of Contents General Risks Related to Investments in Real Estate Our operating results will be affected by economic and regulatory changes that have an adverse impact on the real estate market in general, and we may not be profitable and may not realize growth in the value of our real estate properties. Our operating results are subject to risks generally incident to the ownership of real estate, including: • changes in general economic or local conditions; • changes in supply of or demand for similar or competing properties in an area; • changes in interest rates and availability of permanent mortgage funds that may render the sale of a property difficult or unattractive; • changes in tax, real estate, environmental and zoning laws; and • periods of high interest rates and tight money supply. These risks and other factors may prevent us from being profitable or from realizing growth or maintaining the value of our real estate properties. The recent market disruptions may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The global financial markets are currently undergoing pervasive and fundamental disruptions. The continuation or intensification of any such volatility may have an adverse impact on the availability of credit to businesses generally and could lead to a further weakening of the U.S. and global economies. To the extent that turmoil in the financial markets continues and/or intensifies, it has the potential to materially affect the value of our properties and other investments we may make, the availability or the terms of financing that we may anticipate utilizing, our ability to make principal and interest payments on, or refinance, any outstanding debt when due, and/or the ability of our tenants to enter into new leasing transactions or satisfy rental payments under existing leases. The current market disruption could also affect our operating results and financial condition as follows: • Debt and Equity Markets —The real estate debt markets are currently experiencing volatility as a result of certain factors, including the tightening of underwriting standards by lenders and credit rating agencies, and the significant inventory of unsold commercial mortgage-backed securities in the market. Credit spreads for major sources of capital have widened significantly as investors have demanded a higher risk premium. This is resulting in lenders increasing the cost for debt financing. Should the overall cost of borrowings increase, either by increases in the index rates or by increases in lender spreads, we will need to factor such increases into the economics of our acquisitions, developments and other real estate-related investments. This may result in our operations generating lower overall economic returns and a reduced level of cash flows, which could potentially impact our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. In addition, the recent dislocations in the debt markets have reduced the amount of capital that is available to finance real estate, which, in turn: (i) limits the ability of real estate investors to benefit from reduced real estate values or to realize enhanced returns on real estate investments; (ii) has slowed real estate transaction activity; and (iii) may result in an inability to refinance debt as it becomes due, all of which may reasonably be expected to have a material impact, favorable or unfavorable, on revenues, income and/or cash flows from the acquisition and operations of real estate and mortgage loans. In addition, the state of the debt markets could have an impact on the overall amount of capital being invested in real estate, which may result in price or value decreases of real estate assets and impact our ability to raise equity capital. • Valuations — The recent market volatility will likely make the valuation of properties more difficult. There may be significant uncertainty in the valuation, or in the stability of the value, of the properties we acquire that could result in a substantial decrease in the value of our properties. As a result, we may not be able to recover the carrying amount of our properties, which may require us to recognize an impairment charge in earnings. • Government Intervention — The pervasive and fundamental disruptions that the global financial markets are currently undergoing have led to extensive and unprecedented governmental intervention. Although the government intervention is intended to stimulate the flow of capital and to undergird the U.S. economy in the short term, it is impossible to predict the actual effect of the government intervention and what effect, if any, additional interim or permanent governmental intervention may have on the financial markets and/or the effect of such intervention on us and our results of operations. In addition, there is a high likelihood that regulation of the financial markets will be significantly increased in the future, which could have a material impact on our operating results and financial condition. 23 Table of Contents Adverse economic and geopolitical conditions may negatively affect our returns and profitability. Our operating results may be affected by market and economic challenges, including the current global economic credit environment, which may result from a continued or exacerbated general economic slow down experienced by the nation as a whole or by the local economics where our properties may be located, or by the real estate industry, including the following: • poor economic conditions may result in tenant defaults under leases; • re-leasing may require concessions or reduced rental rates under the new leases; • poor economic conditions may result in lower revenue to us from retailers who pay us a percentage of their revenues under percentage rent leases; • constricted access to credit may result in tenant defaults or non-renewals under leases; and • increased insurance premiums may reduce funds available for distribution or, to the extent such increases are passed through to tenants, may lead to tenant defaults. Increased insurance premiums may make it difficult to increase rents to tenants on turnover, which may adversely affect our ability to increase our returns. The length and severity of any economic slow down or downturn cannot be predicted. Our operations could be negatively affected to the extent that an economic slow down or downturn is prolonged or becomes more severe. The United States’ armed conflict in Iraq and other parts of the world could have a further impact on our tenants. The consequences of any armed conflict are unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events that could have an adverse effect on our business or your investment. More generally, any of these events could result in increased volatility in or damage to the United States and worldwide financial markets and economy. They also could result in higher energy costs and increased economic uncertainty in the United States or abroad. Our revenues will be dependent upon payment of rent by retailers, which may be particularly vulnerable to uncertainty in the local economy. Adverse economic conditions could affect the ability of our tenants to pay rent, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to pay distributions to you. Many of our retail properties will depend upon a single tenant for all or a majority of their rental income, and our financial condition and ability to make distributions may be adversely affected by the bankruptcy or insolvency, a downturn in the business, or a lease termination of a single tenant. Almost all of our properties are, and we expect that many of our future properties will be, occupied by only one tenant or will derive a majority of their rental income from one tenant and, therefore, the success of those properties will be materially dependent on the financial stability of such tenants. Lease payment defaults by tenants could cause us to reduce the amount of distributions we pay. A default of a tenant on its lease payments to us would cause us to lose the revenue from the property and force us to find an alternative source of revenue to meet any mortgage payment and prevent a foreclosure if the property is subject to a mortgage. In the event of a default, we may experience delays in enforcing our rights as landlord and may incur substantial costs in protecting our investment and re-letting the property. If a lease is terminated, there is no assurance that we will be able to lease the property for the rent previously received or sell the property without incurring a loss. A default by a tenant, the failure of a guarantor to fulfill its obligations or other premature termination of a lease, or a tenant’s election not to extend a lease upon its expiration, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to pay distributions to you. If a tenant declares bankruptcy, we may be unable to collect balances due under relevant leases. Any of our tenants, or any guarantor of a tenant’s lease obligations, could be subject to a bankruptcy proceeding pursuant to Title 11 of the bankruptcy laws of the United States. Such a bankruptcy filing would bar all efforts by us to collect pre-bankruptcy debts from these entities or their properties, unless we receive an enabling order from the bankruptcy court. Post-bankruptcy debts would be paid currently. If a lease is assumed, all pre-bankruptcy balances owing under it must be paid in full. If a lease is rejected by a tenant in bankruptcy, we would have a general unsecured claim for damages. If a lease is rejected, it is unlikely we would receive any payments from the tenant because our claim is capped at the rent reserved under the lease, without acceleration, for the greater of one year or 15% of the remaining term of the lease, but not greater than three years, plus rent already due but unpaid. This claim could be paid only in the event funds were available, and then only in the same percentage as that realized on other unsecured claims. 24 Table of Contents A tenant or lease guarantor bankruptcy could delay efforts to collect past due balances under the relevant leases, and could ultimately preclude full collection of these sums. Such an event could cause a decrease or cessation of rental payments that would mean a reduction in our cash flow and the amount available for distributions to our stockholders. In the event of a bankruptcy, we cannot assure you that the tenant or its trustee will assume our lease. If a given lease, or guaranty of a lease, is not assumed, our cash flow and the amounts available for distributions to our stockholders may be adversely affected. A high concentration of our properties in a particular geographic area, or that have tenants in a similar industry, would magnify the effects of downturns in that geographic area or industry. We expect that our properties will be diverse according to geographic area and industry of our tenants. However, in the event that we have a concentration of properties in any particular geographic area, any adverse situation that disproportionately effects that geographic area would have a magnified adverse effect on our portfolio. Similarly, if our tenants are concentrated in a certain industry or industries, any adverse effect to that industry generally would have a disproportionately adverse effect on our portfolio. If a sale-leaseback transaction is re-characterized in a tenant’s bankruptcy proceeding, our financial condition could be adversely affected. We may enter into sale-leaseback transactions, whereby we would purchase a property and then lease the same property back to the person from whom we purchased it. In the event of the bankruptcy of a tenant, a transaction structured as a sale-leaseback may be re-characterized as either a financing or a joint venture, either of which outcomes could adversely affect our business. If the sale-leaseback were re-characterized as a financing, we might not be considered the owner of the property, and as a result would have the status of a creditor in relation to the tenant. In that event, we would no longer have the right to sell or encumber our ownership interest in the property. Instead, we would have a claim against the tenant for the amounts owed under the lease, with the claim arguably secured by the property. The tenant/debtor might have the ability to propose a plan restructuring the term, interest rate and amortization schedule of its outstanding balance. If confirmed by the bankruptcy court, we could be bound by the new terms, and prevented from foreclosing our lien on the property. If the sale-leaseback were re-characterized as a joint venture, our lessee and we could be treated as co-venturers with regard to the property. As a result, we could be held liable, under some circumstances, for debts incurred by the lessee relating to the property. Either of these outcomes could adversely affect our cash flow and the amount available for distributions to our stockholders. Properties that have vacancies for a significant period of time could be difficult to sell, which could diminish the return to our stockholders. A property may incur vacancies either by the continued default of tenants under their leases or the expiration of tenant leases. If vacancies continue for a long period of time, we may suffer reduced revenues resulting in less cash to be distributed to stockholders. In addition, because properties’ market values depend principally upon the value of the properties’ leases, the resale value of properties with prolonged vacancies could suffer, which could further reduce your return. We may obtain only limited warranties when we purchase a property and would have only limited recourse in the event our due diligence did not identify any issues that lower the value of our property. The seller of a property often sells such property in its “as is” condition on a “where is” basis and “with all faults,” without any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular use or purpose. In addition, purchase agreements may contain only limited warranties, representations and indemnifications that will only survive for a limited period after the closing. The purchase of properties with limited warranties increases the risk that we may lose some or all of our invested capital in the property as well as the loss of rental income from that property. We may be unable to secure funds for future tenant improvements or capital needs, which could adversely impact our ability to pay cash distributions to our stockholders. When tenants do not renew their leases or otherwise vacate their space, it is usual that, in order to attract replacement tenants, we will be required to expend substantial funds for tenant improvements and tenant refurbishments to the vacated space. In addition, although we expect that our leases with tenants will require tenants to pay routine property maintenance costs, we will likely be responsible for any major structural repairs, such as repairs to the foundation, exterior walls and rooftops. We will use substantially all of our gross proceeds from our Offerings to buy real estate and pay various fees and expenses. We reserve only 0.1% of the gross proceeds from our Offerings for future capital needs. Accordingly, if we need additional capital in the future to improve or maintain our properties or for any other reason, we will have to obtain financing from other sources, such as cash flow from operations, borrowings, property sales or future equity offerings. These sources of funding may not be available on attractive terms or at all. If we cannot procure additional funding for capital improvements, our investments may generate lower cash flows or decline in value, or both. 25 Table of Contents Our inability to sell a property when we desire to do so could adversely impact our ability to pay cash distributions to our stockholders. The real estate market is affected by many factors, such as general economic conditions, availability of financing, interest rates and other factors, including supply and demand, that are beyond our control. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms set by us, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. We may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold. We cannot assure you that we will have funds available to correct such defects or to make such improvements. Moreover, in acquiring a property, we may agree to restrictions that prohibit the sale of that property for a period of time or impose other restrictions, such as a limitation on the amount of debt that can be placed or repaid on that property. These provisions would restrict our ability to sell a property. We may not be able to sell our properties at a price equal to, or greater than, the price for which we purchased such property, which may lead to a decrease in the value of our assets. Many of our leases do not, and will not, contain rental increases over time. Therefore, the value of the property to a potential purchaser may not increase over time, which may restrict our ability to sell a property, or in the event we are able to sell such property, may lead to a sale price less than the price that we paid to purchase the property. Certain of our properties are subject to lock-out provisions, and in the future we may acquire or finance additional properties with lock-out provisions, which may prohibit us from selling a property, or may require us to maintain specified debt levels for a period of years on some properties. Lock-out provisions could materially restrict us from selling or otherwise disposing of or refinancing properties. These provisions affect our ability to turn our investments into cash and thus affect cash available for distributions to our stockholders. Lock-out provisions may prohibit us from reducing the outstanding indebtedness with respect to any properties, refinancing such indebtedness on a non-recourse basis at maturity, or increasing the amount of indebtedness with respect to such properties. Lock-out provisions could impair our ability to take other actions during the lock-out period that could be in the best interests of our stockholders and, therefore, may have an adverse impact on the value of the shares, relative to the value that would result if the lock-out provisions did not exist. In particular, lock-out provisions could preclude us from participating in major transactions that could result in a disposition of our assets or a change in control even though that disposition or change in control might be in the best interests of our stockholders. Increased operating expenses could reduce cash flow from operations and funds available to acquire investments or make distributions. Our current properties are, and any properties that we buy in the future will be, subject to operating risks common to real estate in general, any or all of which may negatively affect us. If any property is not fully occupied or if rents are being paid in an amount that is insufficient to cover operating expenses, we could be required to expend funds with respect to that property for operating expenses. The properties will be subject to increases in tax rates, utility costs, operating expenses, insurance costs, repairs and maintenance and administrative expenses. While we expect that many of our properties will be leased on a triple-net-lease basis or will require the tenants to pay a portion of such expenses, renewals of leases or future leases may not be negotiated on that basis, in which event we may have to pay those costs. If we are unable to lease properties on a triple-net-lease basis or on a basis requiring the tenants to pay all or some of such expenses, or if tenants fail to pay required tax, utility and other impositions, we could be required to pay those costs which could adversely affect funds available for future acquisitions or cash available for distributions to you. 26 Table of Contents The failure of any bank in which we deposit our funds could reduce the amount of cash we have available to pay distributions and make additional investments. We intend to diversify our cash and cash equivalents among several banking institutions in an attempt to minimize exposure to any one of these entities. However, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or “FDIC,” currently only insures amounts up to $250,000 per depositor per insured bank. As of December 31, 2008, we had cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash deposited in certain financial institutions in excess of federally insured levels. If any of the banking institutions in which we have deposited funds ultimately fails, we may lose our deposits over the federally insured level. The loss of our deposits could reduce the amount of cash we have available to distribute or invest and could result in a decline in the value of your investment. If we suffer losses that are not covered by insurance or that are in excess of insurance coverage, we could lose invested capital and anticipated profits. Generally, each of our tenants is responsible for insuring its goods and premises and, in some circumstances, may be required to reimburse us for a share of the cost of acquiring comprehensive insurance for the property, including casualty, liability, fire and extended coverage customarily obtained for similar properties in amounts that our advisor determines are sufficient to cover reasonably foreseeable losses. Tenants of single-user properties leased on a triple-net-lease basis typically are required to pay all insurance costs associated with those properties. Material losses may occur in excess of insurance proceeds with respect to any property, as insurance may not be sufficient to fund the losses. However, there are types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as losses due to wars, acts of terrorism, earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, pollution or environmental matters, which are either uninsurable or not economically insurable, or may be insured subject to limitations, such as large deductibles or co-payments. Insurance risks associated with potential terrorism acts could sharply increase the premiums we pay for coverage against property and casualty claims. Additionally, mortgage lenders in some cases have begun to insist that commercial property owners purchase specific coverage against terrorism as a condition for providing mortgage loans. It is uncertain whether such insurance policies will be available, or available at reasonable cost, which could inhibit our ability to finance or refinance our potential properties. In these instances, we may be required to provide other financial support, either through financial assurances or self-insurance, to cover potential losses. We may not have adequate coverage for such losses. The Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 is designed for a sharing of terrorism losses between insurance companies and the federal government. We cannot be certain how this act will impact us or what additional cost to us, if any, could result. If such an event damaged or destroyed one or more of our properties, we could lose both our invested capital and anticipated profits from such property. Real estate-related taxes may increase and if these increases are not passed on to tenants, our income will be reduced. Some local real property tax assessors may seek to reassess some of our properties as a result of our acquisition of the property. Generally, from time to time our property taxes increase as property values or assessment rates change or for other reasons deemed relevant by the assessors. An increase in the assessed valuation of a property for real estate tax purposes will result in an increase in the related real estate taxes on that property. Although some tenant leases may permit us to pass through such tax increases to the tenants for payment, there is no assurance that renewal leases or future leases will be negotiated on the same basis. Increases not passed through to tenants will adversely affect our income, cash available for distributions, and the amount of distributions to you. Revenue from our properties depends on the amount of our tenants’ retail revenue, making us vulnerable to general economic downturns and other conditions affecting the retail industry. Some of our leases may also include a percentage rent clause for additional rent above the base amount based upon a specified percentage of the sales our tenants generate. Under those leases that contain percentage rent clauses, our revenue from tenants may decrease as the sales of our tenants decrease. Generally, retailers face declining revenues during downturns in the economy. As a result, the portion of our revenue that we derive from percentage rent leases could decline upon a general economic downturn. CC&Rs may restrict our ability to operate a property. Some of our properties will most likely be contiguous to other parcels of real property, comprising part of the same retail center. In connection with such properties, there will likely exist significant covenants, conditions and restrictions, known as “CC&Rs,” restricting the operation of such properties and any improvements on such properties, and related to granting easements on such properties. Moreover, the operation and management of the contiguous properties may impact such properties. Compliance with CC&Rs may adversely affect our operating costs and reduce the amount of funds that we have available to pay distributions to you. 27 Table of Contents Our operating results may be negatively affected by potential development and construction delays and result in increased costs and risks. While we do not currently intend to do so, we may acquire and develop properties upon which we will construct improvements. We will be subject to uncertainties associated with re-zoning for development, environmental concerns of governmental entities and/or community groups, and our builder’s ability to build in conformity with plans, specifications, budgeted costs, and timetables. If a builder fails to perform, we may resort to legal action to rescind the purchase or the construction contract or to compel performance. A builder’s performance may also be affected or delayed by conditions beyond the builder’s control. Delays in completion of construction could also give tenants the right to terminate preconstruction leases. We may incur additional risks when we make periodic progress payments or other advances to builders before they complete construction. These and other such factors can result in increased costs of a project or loss of our investment. In addition, we will be subject to normal lease-up risks relating to newly constructed projects. We also must rely on rental income and expense projections and estimates of the fair market value of property upon completion of construction when agreeing upon a price at the time we acquire the property. If our projections are inaccurate, we may pay too much for a property, and our return on our investment could suffer. While we do not currently intend to do so, we may invest in unimproved real property. Returns from development of unimproved properties are also subject to risks associated with re-zoning the land for development and environmental concerns of governmental entities and/or community groups. Although we intend to limit any investment in unimproved property to property we intend to develop, your investment nevertheless is subject to the risks associated with investments in unimproved real property. If we contract with an affiliated development company for newly developed property, we cannot guarantee that our earnest money deposit made to the development company will be fully refunded. While we currently do not have an affiliated development company, our sponsor and/or its affiliates may form a development company. In such an event, we may enter into one or more contracts, either directly or indirectly through joint ventures with affiliates or others, to acquire real property from an affiliate of Cole Advisors II that is engaged in construction and development of commercial real properties. Properties acquired from an affiliated development company may be either existing income-producing properties, properties to be developed or properties under development. We anticipate that we will be obligated to pay a substantial earnest money deposit at the time of contracting to acquire such properties. In the case of properties to be developed by an affiliated development company, we anticipate that we will be required to close the purchase of the property upon completion of the development of the property by our affiliate. At the time of contracting and the payment of the earnest money deposit by us, our development company affiliate typically will not have acquired title to any real property. Typically, our development company affiliate will only have a contract to acquire land, a development agreement to develop a building on the land and an agreement with one or more tenants to lease all or part of the property upon its completion. We may enter into such a contract with our development company affiliate even if at the time of contracting we have not yet raised sufficient proceeds to enable us to close the purchase of such property. However, we will not be required to close a purchase from our development company affiliate, and will be entitled to a refund of our earnest money, in the following circumstances: • our development company affiliate fails to develop the property; • all or a specified portion of the pre-leased tenants fail to take possession under their leases for any reason; or • we are unable to raise sufficient proceeds from our Offerings to pay the purchase price at closing. The obligation of our development company affiliate to refund our earnest money will be unsecured, and no assurance can be made that we would be able to obtain a refund of such earnest money deposit from it under these circumstances since our development company affiliate may be an entity without substantial assets or operations. However, our development company affiliates obligation to refund our earnest money deposit may be guaranteed by Cole Realty Advisors, our property manager, which will enter into contracts to provide property management and leasing services to various Cole-sponsored programs, including us, for substantial monthly fees. As of the time Cole Realty Advisors may be required to perform under any guaranty, we cannot assure that Cole Realty Advisors will have sufficient assets to refund all of our earnest money deposit in a lump sum payment. If we were forced to collect our earnest money deposit by enforcing the guaranty of Cole Realty Advisors, we will likely be required to accept installment payments over time payable out of the revenues of Cole Realty Advisors’ operations. We cannot assure you that we would be able to collect the entire amount of our earnest money deposit under such circumstances. 28 Table of Contents Competition with third parties in acquiring properties and other investments may reduce our profitability and the return on your investment. We compete with many other entities engaged in real estate investment activities, including individuals, corporations, bank and insurance company investment accounts, other REITs, real estate limited partnerships, and other entities engaged in real estate investment activities, many of which have greater resources than we do. Larger REITs may enjoy significant competitive advantages that result from, among other things, a lower cost of capital and enhanced operating efficiencies. In addition, the number of entities and the amount of funds competing for suitable investments may increase. Any such increase would result in increased demand for these assets and therefore increased prices paid for them. If we pay higher prices for properties and other investments, our profitability will be reduced and you may experience a lower return on your investment. Our properties face competition that may affect tenants’ ability to pay rent and the amount of rent paid to us may affect the cash available for distributions and the amount of distributions. Our properties typically are, and we expect will be, located in developed areas. Therefore, there are and will be numerous other retail properties within the market area of each of our properties that will compete with us for tenants. The number of competitive properties could have a material effect on our ability to rent space at our properties and the amount of rents charged. We could be adversely affected if additional competitive properties are built in locations competitive with our properties, causing increased competition for customer traffic and creditworthy tenants. This could result in decreased cash flow from tenants and may require us to make capital improvements to properties that we would not have otherwise made, thus affecting cash available for distributions, and the amount available for distributions to you and the amount of distributions we pay. Acquiring or attempting to acquire multiple properties in a single transaction may adversely affect our operations. From time to time, we may attempt to acquire multiple properties in a single transaction. Portfolio acquisitions are more complex and expensive than single property acquisitions, and the risk that a multiple-property acquisition does not close may be greater than in a single-property acquisition. Portfolio acquisitions may also result in us owning investments in geographically dispersed markets, placing additional demands on our ability to manage the properties in the portfolio. In addition, a seller may require that a group of properties be purchased as a package even though we may not want to purchase one or more properties in the portfolio. In these situations, if we are unable to identify another person or entity to acquire the unwanted properties, we may be required to operate or attempt to dispose of these properties. To acquire multiple properties in a single transaction we may be required to accumulate a large amount of cash. We would expect the returns that we earn on such cash to be less than the ultimate returns on real property, therefore accumulating such cash could reduce our funds available for distributions to you. Any of the foregoing events may have an adverse effect on our operations. If we set aside insufficient capital reserves, we may be required to defer necessary capital improvements. If we do not have enough reserves for capital to supply needed funds for capital improvements throughout the life of the investment in a property and there is insufficient cash available from our operations, we may be required to defer necessary improvements to a property, which may cause that property to suffer from a greater risk of obsolescence or a decline in value, or a greater risk of decreased cash flow as a result of fewer potential tenants being attracted to the property. If this happens, we may not be able to maintain projected rental rates for affected properties, and our results of operations may be negatively impacted. Costs of complying with governmental laws and regulations, including those relating to environmental matters, may adversely affect our income and the cash available for any distributions. All real property and the operations conducted on real property are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and human health and safety. These laws and regulations generally govern wastewater discharges, air emissions, the operation and removal of underground and above-ground storage tanks, the use, storage, treatment, transportation and disposal of solid and hazardous materials, and the remediation of contamination associated with disposals. Some of these laws and regulations may impose joint and several liability on tenants, owners or operators for the costs to investigate or remediate contaminated properties, regardless of fault or whether the acts causing the contamination were legal. This liability could be substantial. In addition, the presence of hazardous substances, or the failure to properly remediate these substances, may adversely affect our ability to sell, rent or pledge such property as collateral for future borrowings. Some of these laws and regulations have been amended so as to require compliance with new or more stringent standards as of future dates. Compliance with new or more stringent laws or regulations or stricter interpretation of existing laws may require material expenditures by us. Future laws, ordinances or regulations may impose material environmental liability. Additionally, our tenants’ operations, the existing condition of land when we buy it, operations in the vicinity of our properties, such as the presence of underground storage tanks, or activities of unrelated third parties may affect our properties. In addition, there are various local, state and federal fire, health, life-safety and similar regulations with which we may be required to comply, and that may subject us to liability in the form of fines or damages for noncompliance. Any material expenditures, fines, or damages we must pay will reduce our ability to make distributions and may reduce the value of your investment. 29 Table of Contents We will not obtain an independent third-party environmental assessment for every property we acquire. In addition, any such assessment that we do obtain may not reveal all environmental liabilities or that a prior owner of a property did not create a material environmental condition not known to us. The cost of defending against claims of liability, of compliance with environmental regulatory requirements, of remediating any contaminated property, or of paying personal injury claims would materially adversely affect our business, assets or results of operations and, consequently, amounts available for distribution to our stockholders. Discovery of previously undetected environmentally hazardous conditions may adversely affect our operating results. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in such property. The costs of removal or remediation could be substantial. Such laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. Environmental laws also may impose restrictions on the manner in which property may be used or businesses may be operated, and these restrictions may require substantial expenditures. Environmental laws provide for sanctions in the event of noncompliance and may be enforced by governmental agencies or, in certain circumstances, by private parties. Certain environmental laws and common law principles could be used to impose liability for release of and exposure to hazardous substances, including asbestos-containing materials into the air, and third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties for personal injury or property damage associated with exposure to released hazardous substances. The cost of defending against claims of liability, of compliance with environmental regulatory requirements, of remediating any contaminated property, or of paying personal injury claims could materially adversely affect our business, assets or results of operations and, consequently, amounts available for distribution to you. If we sell properties by providing financing to purchasers, defaults by the purchasers would adversely affect our cash flows. If we decide to sell any of our properties, we intend to use our best efforts to sell them for cash. However, in some instances we may sell our properties by providing financing to purchasers. When we provide financing to purchasers, we will bear the risk that the purchaser may default, which could negatively impact our cash distributions to stockholders. Even in the absence of a purchaser default, the distribution of the proceeds of sales to our stockholders, or their reinvestment in other assets, will be delayed until the promissory notes or other property we may accept upon the sale are actually paid, sold, refinanced or otherwise disposed of. In some cases, we may receive initial down payments in cash and other property in the year of sale in an amount less than the selling price and subsequent payments will be spread over a number of years. If any purchaser defaults under a financing arrangement with us, it could negatively impact our ability to pay cash distributions to you. Our recovery of an investment in a mortgage that has defaulted may be limited. There is no guarantee that the mortgage, loan or deed of trust securing an investment will, following a default, permit us to recover the original investment and interest that would have been received absent a default. The security provided by a mortgage, deed of trust or loan is directly related to the difference between the amount owed and the appraised market value of the property. Although we intend to rely on a current real estate appraisal when we make the investment, the value of the property is affected by factors outside our control, including general fluctuations in the real estate market, re-zoning, neighborhood changes, highway relocations and failure by the borrower to maintain the property. Our costs associated with complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act may affect cash available for distributions. Our properties will be subject to the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (the “Disabilities Act”). Under the Disabilities Act, all places of public accommodation are required to comply with federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. The Disabilities Act has separate compliance requirements for “public accommodations” and “commercial facilities” that generally requires that buildings and services, including restaurants and retail stores, be made accessible and available to people with disabilities. The Disabilities Act’s requirements could require removal of access barriers and could result in the imposition of injunctive relief, monetary penalties, or, in some cases, an award of damages. We will attempt to acquire properties that comply with the Disabilities Act or place the burden on the seller or other third party, such as a tenant, to ensure compliance with the Disabilities Act. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to acquire properties or allocate responsibilities in this manner. If we cannot, our funds used for Disabilities Act compliance may affect cash available for distributions and the amount of distributions to you. 30 Table of Contents Risks Associated with Debt Financing We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, mortgage indebtedness and other borrowings, which may increase our business risks, hinder our ability to make distributions, and decrease the value of your investment. We expect to incur additional indebtedness even if we raise significant proceeds in our offering. We expect that in most instances, we will acquire real properties by using either existing financing or borrowing new funds. In addition, we may incur mortgage debt and pledge all or some of our real properties as security for that debt to obtain funds to acquire additional real properties. We may borrow if we need funds to satisfy the REIT tax qualification requirement that we distribute at least 90% of our annual REIT taxable income to our stockholders. We may also borrow if we otherwise deem it necessary or advisable to assure that we maintain our qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. Our advisor believes that utilizing borrowing is consistent with our investment objective of maximizing the return to investors. There is no limitation on the amount we may borrow against any single improved property. However, under our charter, we are required to limit our borrowings to 60% of the greater of cost (before deducting depreciation or other non-cash reserves) or fair market value of our gross assets, unless excess borrowing is approved by a majority of the independent directors. This level of borrowing is less than, and our borrowings will not exceed, 300% of our net assets, as set forth in the NASAA REIT Guidelines. If there is a shortfall between the cash flow from a property and the cash flow needed to service mortgage debt on a property, then the amount available for distributions to stockholders may be reduced. In addition, incurring mortgage debt increases the risk of loss since defaults on indebtedness secured by a property may result in lenders initiating foreclosure actions. In that case, we could lose the property securing the loan that is in default, thus reducing the value of your investment. For tax purposes, a foreclosure of any of our properties would be treated as a sale of the property for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage. If the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage exceeds our tax basis in the property, we would recognize taxable income on foreclosure, but would not receive any cash proceeds. In such event, we may be unable to pay the amount of distributions required in order to maintain our REIT status. We may give full or partial guarantees to lenders of mortgage debt to the entities that own our properties. When we provide a guaranty on behalf of an entity that owns one of our properties, we will be responsible to the lender for satisfaction of the debt if it is not paid by such entity. If any mortgages contain cross-collateralization or cross-default provisions, a default on a single property could affect multiple properties. If any of our properties are foreclosed upon due to a default, our ability to pay cash distributions to our stockholders will be adversely affected, which could result in our losing our REIT status and would result in a decrease in the value of our stockholders investment. High interest rates may make it difficult for us to finance or refinance properties, which could reduce the number of properties we can acquire and the amount of cash distributions we can make to you. We run the risk of being unable to finance or refinance our properties on favorable terms or at all. If interest rates are higher when we desire to mortgage our properties or when existing loans come due and the properties need to be refinanced, we may not be able to finance the properties and we would be required to use cash to purchase or repay outstanding obligations. Our inability to use debt to finance or refinance our properties could reduce the number of properties we can acquire, which could reduce our operating income and the amount of cash distributions we can make to you. Higher costs of capital also could negatively impact operating income and returns on our investments. Lenders may require us to enter into restrictive covenants relating to our operations, which could limit our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. In connection with providing us financing, a lender could impose restrictions on us that affect our distribution and operating policies and our ability to incur additional debt. Loan documents we enter into may contain covenants that limit our ability to further mortgage the property, discontinue insurance coverage or replace Cole Advisors II as our advisor. These or other limitations may adversely affect our flexibility and our ability to achieve our investment and operating objectives. Increases in interest rates could increase the amount of our debt payments and adversely affect our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. To the extent that we incur variable rate debt, increases in interest rates would increase our interest costs, which could reduce our cash flows and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. In addition, if we need to repay existing debt during periods of rising interest rates, we could be required to liquidate one or more of our investments in properties at times that may not permit realization of the maximum return on such investments. 31 Table of Contents We have broad authority to incur debt, and high debt levels could hinder our ability to make distributions and could decrease the value of your investment. Our charter generally limits us to incurring debt no greater than 60% of the greater of cost (before deducting depreciation or other non-cash reserves) or fair market value of all of our assets, unless any excess borrowing is approved by a majority of our independent directors and disclosed to our stockholders in our next quarterly report, along with a justification for such excess borrowing. We expect that during the period of our offering we will request that our independent directors approve borrowings in excess of this limitation since we will then be in the process of raising our equity capital to acquire our portfolio. As a result, we expect that our debt levels will be higher until we have invested most of our capital. High debt levels would cause us to incur higher interest charges, would result in higher debt service payments, and could be accompanied by restrictive covenants. These factors could limit the amount of cash we have available to distribute and could result in a decline in the value of your investment. Interest-only indebtedness may increase our risk of default and ultimately may reduce our funds available for distribution to you. We may finance our property acquisitions using interest-only mortgage indebtedness. During the interest-only period, the amount of each scheduled payment will be less than that of a traditional amortizing mortgage loan. The principal balance of the mortgage loan will not be reduced (except in the case of prepayments) because there are no scheduled monthly payments of principal during this period. After the interest-only period, we will be required either to make scheduled payments of amortized principal and interest or to make a lump-sum or “balloon” payment at maturity. These required principal or balloon payments will increase the amount of our scheduled payments and may increase our risk of default under the related mortgage loan. If the mortgage loan has an adjustable interest rate, the amount of our scheduled payments also may increase at a time of rising interest rates. Increased payments and substantial principal or balloon maturity payments will reduce the funds available for distribution to our stockholders because cash otherwise available for distribution will be required to pay principal and interest associated with these mortgage loans. To hedge against exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations, we may use derivative financial instruments that may be costly and ineffective and may reduce the overall returns on your investment. We may use derivative financial instruments to hedge our exposure to changes in exchange rates and interest rates on loans secured by our assets and investments in collateralized mortgage-backed securities. Derivative instruments may include interest rate swap contracts, interest rate cap or floor contracts, futures or forward contracts, options or repurchase agreements. Our actual hedging decisions will be determined in light of the facts and circumstances existing at the time of the hedge and may differ from time to time. To the extent that we use derivative financial instruments to hedge against exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations, we will be exposed to credit risk, basis risk and legal enforceability risks. In this context, credit risk is the failure of the counterparty to perform under the terms of the derivative contract. If the fair value of a derivative contract is positive, the counterparty owes us, which creates credit risk for us. We intend to manage credit risk by dealing only with major financial institutions that have high credit ratings. Basis risk occurs when the index upon which the contract is based is more or less variable than the index upon which the hedged asset or liability is based, thereby making the hedge less effective. We intend to manage basis risk by matching, to a reasonable extent, the contract index to the index upon which the hedged asset or liability is based. Finally, legal enforceability risks encompass general contractual risks, including the risk that the counterparty will breach the terms of, or fail to perform its obligations under, the derivative contract. We intend to manage legal enforceability risks by ensuring, to the best of our ability, that we contract with reputable counterparties and that each counterparty complies with the terms and conditions of the derivative contract. If we are unable to manage these risks effectively, our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions to you will be adversely affected. If we enter into financing arrangements involving balloon payment obligations, it may adversely affect our ability to make distributions to you. Some of our financing arrangements may require us to make a lump-sum or “balloon” payment at maturity. Our ability to make a balloon payment at maturity is uncertain and may depend upon our ability to obtain additional financing or our ability to sell the property. At the time the balloon payment is due, we may or may not be able to refinance the balloon payment on terms as favorable as the original loan, or at all, or sell the property at a price sufficient to make the balloon payment. The effect of a refinancing or sale could affect the rate of return to stockholders and the projected time of disposition of our assets. In addition, payments of principal and interest made to service our debts may leave us with insufficient cash to pay the distributions that we are required to pay to maintain our qualification as a REIT. Any of these results would have a significant, negative impact on your investment. 32 Table of Contents Risks Associated with Co-Ownership Transactions Our participation in a co-ownership arrangement would subject us to risk that otherwise may not be present in other real estate investments. We may enter in co-ownership arrangements with respect to a portion of the properties we acquire. Co-ownership arrangements involve risks generally not otherwise present with an investment in real estate such as the following: • the risk that a co-owner may at any time have economic or business interests or goals that are or become inconsistent with our business interests or goals; • the risk that a co-owner may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives; • the possibility that an individual co-owner might become insolvent or bankrupt, or otherwise default under the applicable mortgage loan financing documents, which may constitute an event of default under all of the applicable mortgage loan financing documents or allow the bankruptcy court to reject the agreements entered into by the co-owners owning interests in the property; • the possibility that a co-owner might not have adequate liquid assets to make cash advances that may be required in order to fund operations, maintenance and other expenses related to the property, which could result in the loss of current or prospective tenants and may otherwise adversely affect the operation and maintenance of the property, and could cause a default under the mortgage loan financing documents applicable to the property and may result in late charges, penalties and interest, and may lead to the exercise of foreclosure and other remedies by the lender; • the risk that a co-owner could breach agreements related to the property, which may cause a default, or result in personal liability for, the applicable mortgage loan financing documents, violate applicable securities law, result in a foreclosure or otherwise adversely affect the property and the co-ownership arrangement; • we could have limited control and rights, with management decisions made entirely by a third-party; or • the possibility that we will not have the right to sell the property at a time that otherwise could result in the property being sold for its maximum value. Any of the above might subject a property to liabilities in excess of those contemplated and thus reduce the amount available for distribution to our stockholders. In the event that our interests become adverse to those of the other co-owners, we will not have the contractual right to purchase the co-ownership interests from the other co-owners. Even if we are given the opportunity to purchase such co-ownership interests in the future, we cannot guarantee that we will have sufficient funds available at the time to purchase co-ownership interests from the co-owners. We might want to sell our co-ownership interests in a given property at a time when the other co-owners in such property do not desire to sell their interests. Therefore, because we anticipate that it will be much more difficult to find a willing buyer for our co-ownership interests in a property than it would be to find a buyer for a property we owned outright, we may not be able to sell our interest in a property at the time we would like to sell. Risks Associated with Investments in Mortgage, Bridge and Mezzanine Loans and Real Estate-Related Securities We do not have substantial experience investing in mortgage, bridge or mezzanine loans, which could adversely affect our return on our loan investments. We may make or acquire mortgage, bridge or mezzanine loans, or participations in such loans, to the extent our advisor and board of directors determine that it is advantageous for us to do so. However, neither our advisor nor any of its affiliates has any substantial experience investing in mortgage, bridge or mezzanine loans. If we make or acquire mortgage, bridge or mezzanine loans or participations in them, we may not have the expertise necessary to maximize the return on our investment in these types of loans. If we make or invest in mortgage, bridge or mezzanine loans, we will be at risk of defaults on those loans caused by many conditions beyond our control, including local and other economic conditions affecting real estate values, interest rate changes, rezoning, and failure by the borrower to maintain the property. If there are defaults under these loans, we may not be able to repossess and sell quickly any properties securing such loans. An action to foreclose on a property securing a loan is regulated by state statutes and regulations and is subject to many of the delays and expenses of any lawsuit brought in connection with the foreclosure if the defendant raises defenses or counterclaims. In the event of default by a mortgagor, these restrictions, among other things, may impede our ability to foreclose on or sell the mortgaged property or to obtain proceeds sufficient to repay all amounts due to us on the loan, which could reduce the value of our investment in the defaulted loan. In addition, investments in mezzanine loans involve a higher degree of risk than long-term senior mortgage lending secured by income-producing real property because the investment may become unsecured as a result of foreclosure on the underlying real property by the senior lender. 33 Table of Contents We may invest in various types of real estate-related securities. Aside from investments in real estate, we are permitted to invest in real estate-related securities, including securities issued by other real estate companies, CMBS, mortgage, bridge, mezzanine or other loans and Section 1031 tenant-in-common interests, and we may invest in real estate-related securities of both publicly traded and private real estate companies. We are focused, however, on acquiring interests in retail and other income-producing properties. We may not have the expertise necessary to maximize the return on our investment in real estate-related securities. If our advisor determines that it is advantageous to us to make the types of investments in which our advisor or its affiliates do not have experience, our advisor intends to employ persons, engage consultants or partner with third parties that have, in our advisor’s opinion, the relevant expertise necessary to assist our advisor in evaluating, making and administering such investments. Investments in real estate-related securities will be subject to specific risks relating to the particular issuer of the securities and may be subject to the general risks of investing in subordinated real estate securities, which may result in losses to us. Our investments in real estate-related securities will involve special risks relating to the particular issuer of the securities, including the financial condition and business outlook of the issuer. Issuers of real estate-related equity securities generally invest in real estate or real estate-related assets and are subject to the inherent risks associated with real estate-related investments discussed in this prospectus, including risks relating to rising interest rates. Real estate-related securities are often unsecured and also may be subordinated to other obligations of the issuer. As a result, investments in real estate-related securities are subject to risks of (1) limited liquidity in the secondary trading market in the case of unlisted or thinly traded securities, (2) substantial market price volatility resulting from changes in prevailing interest rates in the case of traded equity securities, (3) subordination to the prior claims of banks and other senior lenders to the issuer, (4) the operation of mandatory sinking fund or call/redemption provisions during periods of declining interest rates that could cause the issuer to reinvest redemption proceeds in lower yielding assets, (5) the possibility that earnings of the issuer may be insufficient to meet its debt service and distribution obligations and (6) the declining creditworthiness and potential for insolvency of the issuer during periods of rising interest rates and economic slow down or downturn. These risks may adversely affect the value of outstanding real estate-related securities and the ability of the issuers thereof to repay principal and interest or make distribution payments. The CMBS in which we may invest are subject to all of the risks of the underlying mortgage loans, the risks of the securitization process and dislocations in the mortgage-backed securities market in general. CMBS are securities that evidence interests in, or are secured by, a single commercial mortgage loan or a pool of commercial mortgage loans. Accordingly, these securities are subject to all of the risks of the underlying mortgage loans. In a rising interest rate environment, the value of CMBS may be adversely affected when payments on underlying mortgages do not occur as anticipated, resulting in the extension of the security’s effective maturity and the related increase in interest rate sensitivity of a longer-term instrument. The value of CMBS may also change due to shifts in the market’s perception of issuers and regulatory or tax changes adversely affecting the mortgage securities market as a whole. In addition, CMBS are subject to the credit risk associated with the performance of the underlying mortgage properties. CMBS are issued by investment banks, not financial institutions, and are not insured or guaranteed by the U.S. government. CMBS are also subject to several risks created through the securitization process. Subordinate CMBS are paid interest only to the extent that there are funds available to make payments. To the extent the collateral pool includes delinquent loans, there is a risk that interest payments on subordinate CMBS will not be fully paid. Subordinate CMBS are also subject to greater credit risk than those CMBS that are more highly rated. In certain instances, third-party guarantees or other forms of credit support can reduce the credit risk. Although we intend to invest only in mortgage-backed securities collateralized by commercial loans, the value of such CMBS can be negatively impacted by any dislocation in the mortgage-backed securities market in general. Currently, the mortgage-backed securities market is suffering from a severe dislocation created by mortgage pools that include sub-prime mortgages secured by residential real estate. Sub-prime loans often have high interest rates and are often made to borrowers with credit scores that would not qualify them for prime conventional loans. In recent years, banks made a great number of the sub-prime residential mortgage loans with high interest rates, floating interest rates, interest rates that reset from time to time, and/or interest-only payment features that expire over time. These terms, coupled with rising interest rates, have caused an increasing number of homeowners to default on their mortgages. Purchasers of mortgage-backed securities collateralized by mortgage pools that include risky sub-prime residential mortgages have experienced severe losses as a result of the defaults and such losses have had a negative impact on the CMBS market. 34 Table of Contents Federal Income Tax Risks Failure to qualify as a REIT would adversely affect our operations and our ability to make distributions. If we fail to qualify as a REIT for any taxable year, we will be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at corporate rates. In addition, we would generally be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year of losing our REIT status. Losing our REIT status would reduce our net earnings available for investment or distribution to stockholders because of the additional tax liability. In addition, distributions to stockholders would no longer qualify for the dividends paid deduction, and we would no longer be required to make distributions. If this occurs, we might be required to borrow funds or liquidate some investments in order to pay the applicable tax. Re-characterization of the Section 1031 programs may result in a 100% tax on income from a prohibited transaction, which would diminish our cash distributions to our stockholders. The Internal Revenue Service could re-characterize transactions under the Section 1031 program such that Cole OP II, rather than the co-owner in the program (Section 1031 Participant), is treated as the bona fide owner, for tax purposes, of properties acquired and resold by a Section 1031 Participant in connection with the Section 1031 program. Such characterization could result in the fees paid to Cole OP II by a Section 1031 Participant as being deemed income from a prohibited transaction, in which event the fee income paid to us in connection with the Section 1031 programs would be subject to a 100% penalty tax. If this occurs, our ability to pay cash distributions to our stockholders will be adversely affected. We expect to obtain a legal opinion in connection with each co-ownership program to the effect that the program will qualify as a like-kind exchange under Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code. However, the Internal Revenue Service may take a position contrary to such an opinion. Re-characterization of sale-leaseback transactions may cause us to lose our REIT status. We may purchase properties and lease them back to the sellers of such properties. While we will use our best efforts to structure any such sale-leaseback transaction so that the lease will be characterized as a “true lease,” thereby allowing us to be treated as the owner of the property for federal income tax purposes, the IRS could challenge such characterization. In the event that any sale-leaseback transaction is challenged and re-characterized as a financing transaction or loan for federal income tax purposes, deductions for depreciation and cost recovery relating to such property would be disallowed. If a sale-leaseback transaction were so recharacterized, we might fail to satisfy the REIT qualification “asset tests” or the “income tests” and, consequently, lose our REIT status effective with the year of recharacterization. Alternatively, the amount of our REIT taxable income could be recalculated which might also cause us to fail to meet the distribution requirement for a taxable year. You may have current tax liability on distributions you elect to reinvest in our common stock. If you participate in our distribution reinvestment plan, you will be deemed to have received, and for income tax purposes will be taxed on, the amount reinvested in common stock to the extent the amount reinvested was not a tax-free return of capital. As a result, unless you are a tax-exempt entity, you may have to use funds from other sources to pay your tax liability on the value of the common stock received. If our operating partnership fails to maintain its status as a partnership, its income may be subject to taxation, which would reduce the cash available to us for distribution to you. We intend to maintain the status of Cole OP II, our operating partnership, as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. However, if the Internal Revenue Service were to successfully challenge the status of our operating partnership as an entity taxable as a partnership, Cole OP II would be taxable as a corporation. In such event, this would reduce the amount of distributions that the operating partnership could make to us. This could also result in our losing REIT status, and becoming subject to a corporate level tax on our income. This would substantially reduce the cash available to us to make distributions to you and the return on your investment. In addition, if any of the partnerships or limited liability companies through which Cole OP II owns its properties, in whole or in part, loses its characterization as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, it would be subject to taxation as a corporation, thereby reducing distributions to our operating partnership. Such a re-characterization of an underlying property owner also could threaten our ability to maintain REIT status. 35 Table of Contents In certain circumstances, we may be subject to federal and state income taxes as a REIT, which would reduce our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Even if we qualify and maintain our status as a REIT, we may be subject to federal income taxes or state taxes. For example, net income from the sale of properties that are “dealer” properties sold by a REIT (a “prohibited transaction” under the Internal Revenue Code) will be subject to a 100% tax. We may not be able to make sufficient distributions to avoid excise taxes applicable to REITs. We may also decide to retain income we earn from the sale or other disposition of our property and pay income tax directly on such income. In that event, our stockholders would be treated as if they earned that income and paid the tax on it directly. However, stockholders that are tax-exempt, such as charities or qualified pension plans, would have no benefit from their deemed payment of such tax liability. We may also be subject to state and local taxes on our income or property, either directly or at the level of Cole OP II or at the level of the other companies through which we indirectly own our assets. Any federal or state taxes we pay will reduce our cash available for distribution to stockholders. Legislative or regulatory action could adversely affect investors. Changes to the tax laws are likely to occur, and such changes may adversely affect the taxation of a stockholder. Any such changes could have an adverse effect on an investment in our shares or on the market value or the resale potential of our assets. You are urged to consult with your own tax advisor with respect to the status of legislative, regulatory or administrative developments and proposals and their potential effect on an investment in our shares. Congress passed major federal tax legislation in 2003, with modifications to that legislation in 2005. One of the changes effected by that legislation generally reduced the tax rate on dividends paid by corporations to individuals to a maximum of 15% prior to 2011. REIT distributions generally do not qualify for this reduced rate. The tax changes did not, however, reduce the corporate tax rates. Therefore, the maximum corporate tax rate of 35% has not been affected. However, as a REIT, we generally would not be subject to federal or state corporate income taxes on that portion of our ordinary income or capital gain that we distribute currently to our stockholders, and we thus expect to avoid the “double taxation” that other corporations are typically subject to. Although REITs continue to receive substantially better tax treatment than entities taxed as corporations, it is possible that future legislation would result in a REIT having fewer tax advantages, and it could become more advantageous for a company that invests in real estate to elect to be taxed, for federal income tax purposes, as a corporation. As a result, our charter provides our board of directors with the power, under certain circumstances, to revoke or otherwise terminate our REIT election and cause us to be taxed as a corporation, without the vote of our stockholders. Our board of directors has fiduciary duties to us and our stockholders and could only cause such changes in our tax treatment if it determines in good faith that such changes are in the best interest of our stockholders. Foreign holders of our common stock may be subject to FIRPTA tax upon the sale of their shares. A foreign person disposing of a U.S. real property interest, including shares of a U.S. corporation whose assets consist principally of U.S. real property interests, is generally subject to a tax, known as FIRPTA tax, on the gain recognized on the disposition. Such FIRPTA tax does not apply, however, to the disposition of stock in a REIT if the REIT is “domestically controlled.” A REIT is “domestically controlled” if less than 50% of the REIT’s stock, by value, has been owned directly or indirectly by persons who are not qualifying U.S. persons during a continuous five-year period ending on the date of disposition or, if shorter, during the entire period of the REIT’s existence. We cannot assure you that we will qualify as a “domestically controlled” REIT. If we were to fail to so qualify, gain realized by foreign investors on a sale of our shares would be subject to FIRPTA tax, unless our shares were traded on an established securities market and the foreign investor did not at any time during a specified testing period directly or indirectly own more than 5% of the value of our outstanding common stock. In order to avoid triggering additional taxes and/or penalties, if you have invested in our shares through pension or profit-sharing trusts or IRAs, you should consider additional factors. If you are investing the assets of a pension, profit-sharing, 401(k), Keogh or other qualified retirement plan or the assets of an IRA in our common stock, you should satisfy yourself that, among other things: • your investment is consistent with your fiduciary obligations under ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code; • your investment is made in accordance with the documents and instruments governing your plan or IRA, including your plan’s investment policy; • your investment satisfies the prudence and diversification requirements of ERISA and other applicable provisions of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code; 36 Table of Contents • your investment will not impair the liquidity of the plan or IRA; • your investment will not produce UBTI for the plan or IRA; • you will be able to value the assets of the plan annually in accordance with ERISA requirements and applicable provisions of the plan or IRA; and • your investment will not constitute a prohibited transaction under Section 406 of ERISA or Section 4975 of the Internal Revenue Code. Failure to satisfy the fiduciary standards of conduct and other applicable requirements of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code may result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties and could subject the fiduciary to equitable remedies. In addition, if an investment in our shares constitutes a prohibited transaction under ERISA or the Internal Revenue Code, the fiduciary who authorized or directed the investment may be subject to the imposition of excise taxes with respect to the amount invested. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 