ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. We operate in an evolving industry that presents numerous risks. Many of these risks are beyond our control and are driven by factors that often cannot be predicted. Prospective purchasers of our securities should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below, as well as the other information appearing in this report, before making any investment in our securities. If any of the risks described below or in the documents incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K actually occur, the respective business, financial results, financial conditions of the Company and the stock price of the Company could be materially adversely affected. These risk factors should be considered in conjunction with the other information included in this Form 10-K. 12 Risks Related to the Company Our business success is dependent on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Our ability to operate our business and implement our strategies effectively depends, in part, on the efforts of our executive officers and other key personnel. Our executive officers have developed expertise in ethanol and related industries, and they have hired qualified managers and key personnel to operate our plants, our grain business, and our marketing and distribution business. However, they have limited experience in managing a vertically-integrated ethanol company. We are evaluating and continuing to recruit for the areas of expertise that we need to facilitate management of a large, complex ethanol company. There is no assurance that we will be successful in attracting or retaining such individuals because of the limited number of individuals with expertise in this area and a competitive market with many new plants in operation and several under development. The inability to retain our executive officers, managers or other key personnel, or rec ruit qualified replacements, may negatively impact us by impairing our ability to operate efficiently or execute our growth strategies. We have limited operating histories in the ethanol industry. We were formed in June of 2004 and our first ethanol plant, located in Shenandoah, IA, began operations in August 2007. Our other ethanol plants, located in Superior, IA, Bluffton, IN and Obion, TN commenced operations in the third, third and fourth quarters of calendar 2008, respectively. Neither we nor any of our subsidiaries have any other history of operations as ethanol producers or grain business operators. Our new and proposed operations are subject to all the risks inherent in the establishment of new business enterprises. Even though our management team has substantial experience, with much of it in ethanol, other energy-related businesses and grain operations, there is no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to operate our ethanol facilities. Even if we successfully meet these objectives, there is no assurance that we will be able to market the ethanol and distillers grains produced or operate the plants profitably. We have a history of operating losses under reverse merger accounting rules and may never achieve profitable operations. As a result of reverse merger accounting, VBV was considered the acquiring entity for financial statement purposes. At the time of the merger, VBV had an accumulated deficit. Although the accumulated deficit originated during the period prior to initial operations when VBV was a development stage company, the Company has generated a net loss since that time. No assurance can be given that we will be able to operate profitably in the future. In addition, since the Merger occurred toward the end of our fiscal year and involved complex legal and accounting issues, we performed a tentative allocation of the purchase price using preliminary estimates of the values of the assets and liabilities acquired. We have engaged an expert to assist in the determination of the purchase price allocation. We believe the final allocation will be determined during 2009 with prospective adjustments recorded to our financial statements at that time, if necessary. The true-up of the purchase price allocation could result in gains or losses recognized in our consolidated financial statements in future periods. We may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the merger with VBV. In order to realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the Merger, we combined our businesses with those of VBV and its subsidiaries. If we are not able to achieve the objectives of the Merger, the anticipated benefits and cost savings may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, disruption of the Company’s ongoing businesses, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers and employees. Integration efforts, including diversion of management’s attention and resources, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations during and following this transition period. If we are unable to manage growth profitably, our business and financial results could suffer. Our future financial results will depend in part on our ability to profitably manage our core businesses, including any growth that we may be able to achieve. We will need to maintain existing customers and attract new customers, recruit, train, retain and effectively manage employees, as well as expand operations, customer support and financial control systems. If we are unable to manage our businesses profitably, including any growth that we may be able to achieve, our business and financial results could suffer. 13 If our cash flow from operations is insufficient to service our indebtedness, then the value of our stock could be significantly reduced and our business may fail. Our ability to repay current and anticipated future indebtedness will depend on our financial and operating performance and on the successful implementation of our business strategies. Our financial and operational performance will depend on numerous factors including prevailing economic conditions, volatile commodity prices, and financial, business and other factors beyond our control. If we cannot pay our debt service, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, restructure our indebtedness or seek additional capital. If we are unable to restructure our indebtedness or raise funds through sales of assets, equity or otherwise, our ability to operate could be harmed and the value of our stock could be significantly reduced. Our lenders hold security interests in the respective subsidiary assets upon which they have provided financing, including their property and plants, which means that our shareholders would be subordinate to such lenders in the event of a liquidation of our assets. If we fail to make debt service payments or if we otherwise default under our loan agreements, our lenders will have the right to repossess the secured assets. Such action would end our ability to continue operations and your rights as a shareholder upon a liquidation of our business would be inferior to the rights of our lenders and other creditors. In the event of our insolvency, liquidation, dissolution or other winding up of affairs, all of our indebtedness must be paid in full before any payment is made to the holders of our common stock. In such event, there is no assurance that there would be any remaining funds after the payment of all of our indebtedness for any distribution to shareholders. Distressed industry conditions may severely constrain our ability to access incremental debt financing. Ethanol producers have faced significant distress recently, culminating with several bankruptcy filings by various companies. The capital markets experienced volatility and disruption during late 2008 and early 2009. As a result of these conditions, securing incremental credit commitments from lenders and refinancing existing credit facilities is difficult. Although construction of our plants, along with anticipated levels of required working capital, were funded under long-term credit facilities and we believe we have sufficient liquidity to operate our businesses, increases in liquidity requirements could occur due to, for example, increased commodity prices. Also, our debt facilities have ongoing payment requirements which we expect to meet from our operating cash flow. Our operating cash flow is dependent on our ability to profitably operate our businesses and overall commodity market conditions for corn, ethanol, distillers grains and natural gas. In addition, we may need to raise additional debt financing to fund growth of our businesses. In this market environment, we have limited access to incremental debt financing. This could cause us to defer or cancel growth projects, reduce our business activity or, if we are unable to meet our debt repayment schedules, cause a default in our existing debt agreements. These events could have a materially adverse effect on our operations and financial position. Casualty losses may occur for which we have not secured adequate insurance. We have acquired insurance that we believe to be adequate to prevent loss from foreseeable risks. However, events occur for which no insurance is available or for which insurance is not available on terms that are acceptable to us. Loss from such an event, such as, but not limited to, earthquake, tornados, war, riot, terrorism or other risks, may not be insured and such a loss may have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. Our Obion plant is located within a recognized seismic zone. The design of this facility has been modified to fortify it to meet structural requirements for that region of the country. We have also obtained additional insurance coverage specific to earthquake risk for this plant. However, there is no assurance that this facility would remain in operation if a seismic event were to occur. Disruption or difficulties with our information technology could impair our ability to operate. Our business depends on the effective and efficient use of information technology. A disruption or failure of these systems could cause system interruptions, delays in production and a loss of critical data that could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations. 14 We are subject to financial reporting and other requirements, for which our accounting and other management systems and resources may not be adequately prepared. Any failure to maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to reporting and other obligations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), including the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 requires annual management assessment of the effectiveness of a company’s internal controls over financial reporting and a report by its independent registered public accounting firm addressing the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. These reporting and other obligations place significant demands on our management, administrative, operational, internal audit and accounting resources. If we are unable to meet these demands in a timely and effective fashion, our ability to comply with our financial reporting requirements and other rules that apply to us could be impaired. In the past, we identified and reported a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting, which we have remediated. A “material weakness” is a deficiency, or a combination of control deficiencies, resulting in a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the financial statements will not be prevented or detected. Any failure to remediate any material weaknesses or to implement new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. As discussed in Item 9A – Controls and Procedures of this report, management did not perform an assessment of internal controls over financial reporting at December 31, 2008. We cannot provide assurance that management and/or our independent registered public accounting firm will be able to provide an assessment indicating effective operation of internal controls over financial reporting in 200 9. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will have no future deficiencies or weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. We are exposed to credit risk resulting from the possibility that a loss may occur from the failure of another party to perform according to the terms of a contract with us. We sell ethanol and distillers grains, which may result in concentrations of credit risk from a variety of customers, including major integrated oil companies, large independent refiners, petroleum wholesalers, other marketers and jobbers. We are also exposed to credit risk resulting from sales of grain to large commercial buyers, including other ethanol plants, which we continually monitor. Although payments are typically received within fifteen days from the date of sale for ethanol and distillers grains, we continually monitor this credit risk exposure. In addition, we may prepay for or make deposits on undelivered inventories. Concentrations of credit risk with respect to inventory advances are primarily with a few major suppliers of petroleum products and agricultural inputs. The inability of a third party to make payments to us for our accounts receivable or to provide inventory to us on advances made may cause us to experience losses and may advers ely impact our liquidity and our ability to make our payments when due. Risks Related to Our Operations Our ability to produce ethanol and operate at a profit is largely dependent on prices of corn, natural gas, ethanol and distillers grains. Our operations and financial condition are significantly affected by the cost and supply of grain and natural gas and by the selling price for ethanol and distillers grains. Prices and supplies are subject to and determined by market forces over which we have no control. We are heavily dependent on the price and supply of corn. There is no assurance of consistent and continued availability of feedstock. There is significant price pressure on local corn markets caused by nearby ethanol plants, livestock industries and other value-added enterprises. Additionally, the local corn supplies could be adversely affected by rising prices for alternative crops, increasing input costs, changes in government policies, shifts in global markets or damaging growing conditions such as plant disease, weather or drought. As a result of price volatility for these commodities, our operating results may fluctuate substantially. Based on recent forward prices of corn and ethanol, we may be operating our plants at low to possibly negative operating margins. Increases in corn prices or decreases in ethanol or distillers grains prices may result in it being unprofitable to operate our plants. No assurance can be given that we will be able to purchase corn at prices anywhere near the historic averages of corn in the states in which our plants are located; that we will be able to purchase natural gas at, or near, its current price; that we will be able to sell ethanol at, or near, current prices; or that we will be able to sell distillers grains at, or near, current prices. Commodities prices have been extremely volatile in the past and are likely to be volatile in the future due to factors beyond our control, such as weather, domestic and global demand, shortages, export prices a nd various governmental policies in the U.S. and around the world. 15 We have been, and expect to continue, purchasing the corn for our plants, either directly in the case of Shenandoah and Superior, and indirectly in Obion and Bluffton, in the cash market from farmers and commercial elevators in the areas surrounding the plants, and hedging corn purchases through futures contracts or with options to reduce short-term exposure to price fluctuations. Additionally, when market conditions dictate, corn is purchased from other areas and transported to our plants by rail for our Obion and Bluffton plants. We may contract with third parties to manage our hedging activities and corn purchasing. Our purchasing and hedging activities may or may not lower our respective price of corn, and in a period of declining corn prices, these advance purchase and hedging strategies may result in paying a higher price for corn than our competitors. Further, hedging for protection against the adverse changes in the price of corn may be unsuccessful, and could result in substantial losses. Substantial fluctuations in the price of corn over the past year have caused some ethanol plants to temporarily cease production or operate at a loss. Significant price fluctuations may occur in the future. Increased ethanol production from new or expanded ethanol production facilities may increase the demand for corn and increase the price of corn or decrease the availability of corn in areas where we intend to source corn for our plants. We may have to source corn from greater distances from our plants at a higher delivered cost. If a period of high corn prices were to be sustained for some time, such pricing may have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. Our revenues will also be dependent on the market prices for ethanol and distillers grains. These prices can be volatile as a result of a number of factors. These factors include the overall supply and demand of ethanol and corn, the price of gasoline and corn, the level of government support, and the availability and price of competing products. We attempt to manage price fluctuations of our inputs and outputs simultaneously using various hedging methods. We have been, and expect to continue, selling ethanol and distillers grains from our plants in the cash markets, and hedging through futures contracts or with options to reduce short-term exposure to price fluctuations. Our key objective is to lock in profitable margins between the cost of the corn and the value of the ethanol we process regardless of ethanol prices. Price relationships of ethanol, gasoline and corn are continually changing based on market forces and may result in reduced competitiveness of ethanol in the marketplace, which may have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. Green Plains Obion and Green Plains Bluffton have entered into corn purchase agreements that limit their ability to purchase corn on the open market. Green Plains Bluffton has contracted with Cargill Incorporated, through its AgHorizons Business Unit (“Cargill”), for all of its corn supplies. Green Plains Obion has contracted with Obion Grain as its exclusive supplier for corn obtained in Obion County, Tennessee and the seven contiguous counties in Tennessee and Kentucky. Our Obion plant has entered into an agreement with Central States Enterprises, Inc. (“Central States”) for its corn needs that are satisfied by rail shipment. Because of our Bluffton plant’s corn purchase agreement with Cargill and our Obion plant’s corn purchase agreements with Obion Grain and Central States, both our Obion and Bluffton plants are unable to purchase all, or any in the case of our Bluffton plant, of their corn supplies on the open market, which may place the plants at a greater risk to any price fluctuations that may arise and may have a material adverse effect on the operations, cash flo ws and financial performance of such plants. We do not have shareholder corn delivery agreements to assure that our plants have a source for corn and to protect from corn price fluctuations. Many producers of ethanol have corn delivery programs that require their members or shareholders to deliver specified quantities of corn to the producer at established, formula or market prices. These agreements may, at times, protect producers from supply and price fluctuations. We do not have corn delivery agreements and are required to acquire substantial quantities of corn in the marketplace based on prevailing market prices. If the supplies of corn available to us are not adequate, we may not be able to procure adequate supplies of corn at reasonable prices. This could result in a utilization of less than the full capacity of the plants, reduced revenues, higher operating costs, and reduced income or losses. We cannot provide any assurance that there will be sufficient demand for ethanol to support current ethanol prices. Ethanol production has expanded rapidly in recent years. To support this rapid expansion of the industry, domestic ethanol consumption must continue to increase. In the past, the domestic market for ethanol was largely dictated by federal mandates for blending ethanol with gasoline The RFS level for 2009 of 10.5 billion gallons is approximately equal to current domestic production levels. Future demand will be largely dependent upon the economic incentives to blend based upon the relative value of gasoline versus ethanol, taking into consideration the blender’s credit and the RFS. Any significant increase in production capacity beyond the RFS level might have an adverse impact on ethanol prices. 16 Ethanol production from corn has not been without controversy. There have been questions of overall economic efficiency and sustainability, given the industrialized and energy-intensive nature of modern corn agriculture. Additionally, ethanol critics frequently cite the moral dilemma of redirecting corn supplies from international food markets to domestic fuel markets. The controversy surrounding corn ethanol is dangerous to the industry because ethanol demand is largely dictated by federal mandate. If public opinion were to erode, it is possible that the federal mandates will lose political support and the ethanol industry will be left without a market. Beyond the federal mandates, there are limited markets for ethanol. Discretionary blending and E85 blending is an important secondary market. Discretionary blending is often determined by the price of ethanol versus the price of gasoline. In periods when discretionary blending is financially unattractive, the demand for ethanol may be reduced. A reduction in the demand for our products may depress the value of our products, erode our margins, and reduce our ability to generate revenue or to operate profitably. Consumer acceptance of E85 fuels and flexible-fuel technology vehicles is needed before there will be any significant growth in market share. Additional infrastructure is also needed to deliver high-level blends to the end consumer. International markets offer possible opportunities. Certain states have adopted policies to encourage the use of mid-level blends which do not require flexible-fuel technology. Ethanol also has foreseeable applications a s an aviation or locomotive fuel. Limited markets also exist for use of ethanol as an antiseptic, antidote or base compound for further chemical processing. Unfortunately, all these additional markets are undeveloped. At present, we cannot provide any assurance that there will be any material or significant increase in the demand for ethanol beyond the increases in mandated gasoline blending. Increased production in the coming years is likely to lead to lower ethanol prices. Additionally, the increased production of ethanol could have other adverse effects as well. For example, the increased production could lead to increased supplies of by-products from the production of ethanol, such as distillers grains. Those increased supplies could lead to lower prices for those by-products. Also, the increased production of ethanol could result in a further increase in the demand for corn. This could result in higher prices for corn creating lower profits. There can be no assurance as to the price of ethanol, corn or distillers grains in the future. Adverse changes affecting these prices may have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance.< /P> We expect to compete with existing and future ethanol plants and oil companies, which may result in diminished returns on your investment. We operate in a very competitive environment. We compete with large, multi-product, multi-national companies that have much greater resources than we currently have or will have in the future. We may face competition for capital, labor, management, corn and other resources. There is clearly a consolidation trend in the ethanol industry. As a result, firms are growing in size and scope. Larger firms offer efficiencies and economies of scale, resulting in lower costs of production. Absent significant growth and diversification, we might not be able to operate profitably in a more competitive environment. No assurance can be given that we will be able to compete successfully or that such competition will not have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. At present, the ethanol industry is primarily comprised of firms that engage exclusively in ethanol production and large integrated grain companies that produce ethanol along with their base grain businesses. Until recently, oil companies, petrochemical refiners and gasoline retailers have not been engaged in ethanol production to a large extent. These companies, however, form the primary distribution networks for marketing ethanol through blended gasoline. If these companies seek to engage further in direct ethanol production, there will be less of a need to buy ethanol from independent ethanol producers. Such a structural change in the market could result in a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. The price of distillers grains is affected by the price of other commodity products, such as soybeans and corn, and decreases in the price of these commodities could decrease the price of distillers grains, which will decrease the amount of revenue we may generate. Distillers grains compete with other protein-based animal feed products. The price of distillers grains may decrease when the prices of competing feed products decrease. The prices of competing animal feed products are based in part on the prices of the commodities from which these products are derived. Downward pressure on commodity prices, such as soybeans and corn, will generally cause the price of competing animal feed products to decline, resulting in downward pressure on the price of distillers grains. Decreases in the price of distillers grains will result in lower revenues. 17 Engaging in hedging activities to minimize the potential volatility of ethanol, corn, distillers grains and natural gas prices could result in substantial costs and expenses. In an attempt to minimize the effects of the volatility of ethanol, corn, distillers grains and natural gas prices on operating profits, we have entered into hedging positions in futures markets and have utilized other derivative contracts, and will likely take additional hedging positions in these commodities in the future. Hedging means protecting the price at which we buy or sell a commodity product in the future. It is a way to attempt to reduce the risk caused by price fluctuations. The effectiveness of such hedging activities is dependent upon, among other things, the cost and the market liquidity of the underlying commodities. Although we will attempt to link hedging activities to sales plans and purchasing activities, such hedging activities can themselves result in costs because price movements in these commodities are highly volatile and are influenced by many factors that are beyond our control. To the extent we buy and sell commodity derivatives on registered and non-registered exchanges, our derivatives are subject to margin calls. If there is a significant movement in prices in the derivatives market, we could be subject to significant margin calls which would impact our liquidity and our interest expense. There is no assurance that our efforts to mitigate the impact of the volatility of the prices of commodities will be successful, and any sudden change in the price of these commodities could have an adverse affect on our liquidity and profitability. Our ability to successfully operate is dependent on the availability of energy and water at anticipated prices. Our plants require a significant and uninterrupted supply of electricity, natural gas and water to operate. There is no assurance that we will be able to secure an adequate supply of energy or water to support current and expected plant operations. If there is an interruption in the supply of energy or water for any reason, such as supply, delivery or mechanical problems, we may be required to halt production. If production is halted for an extended period of time, it may have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. We have entered into agreements with third parties to negotiate and purchase natural gas and secure related natural gas pipeline capacity for our respective plants from third-party providers. There can be no assurance given that we will be able to obtain a sufficient supply of natural gas for our respective plants or that we will be able to procure alternative sources of natural gas on acceptable terms. Higher natural gas prices may have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. We also purchase significant amounts of electricity to operate the plants. Currently, our plants do not have onsite electric generation capability to support plant operations. All electricity must be purchased from third-party electric utilities. We have negotiated an agreement with MidAmerican Energy to supply electricity to the plant in Shenandoah for a period of five years. We have entered into an agreement with the Iowa Lakes Electric Cooperative and the Corn Belt Cooperative to supply electricity to the Superior plant. The Obion plant purchases its electricity from Gibson Electric Company under a multi-year agreement that provided for the infrastructure and provision of electricity over the term of the agreement. Green Plains Bluffton is served by the local, municipal electric utility, Bluffton Utilities. No assurance can be given that we will be able to negotiate contract extensions at favorable rates after the current contract periods are completed . Electricity prices have historically fluctuated significantly. Sustained increases in the price of electricity in the future would increase the costs of production at the plants. As a result, these issues may have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. Sufficient availability and quality of water are important requirements to produce ethanol. The water requirements at the Shenandoah plants are approximately 400 to 800 gallons per minute, depending on the quality of the water at the plants. We believe the City of Shenandoah has sufficient capacities of water to meet those needs and we have a contract with the city to supply grey water to the plant, which is discharge water from the local municipal water treatment facility, at a price that we believe is favorable to our operations. It is anticipated that this water will comprise about two thirds of the water that we will use at this plant. However, no assurance can be given that a prolonged drought could not diminish the water supplies in the areas of the Shenandoah plant, or that we would continue to have sufficient water supplies in the future. We obtain the water supply for the Superior ethanol plant from two wells on the site. The Obion and Bluffton p lants require approximately 900 to 1,200 gallons of water per minute. We use onsite wells, supplemented by city services as necessary, for our water needs. If a drought were to occur, we may have to purchase water from other sources, such as the local rural water company or the local municipal water utility, which would cost more. If we ever had to do this, it may have a material adverse effect on its operations, cash flows and financial performance and could even cause one or more of our plants to cease production for periods of time. 18 Risk of foreign competition from producers who can produce ethanol at less expensive prices than producing it from corn in the United States. There is an increased risk of foreign competition in the ethanol industry. At present, there is a $0.54 per gallon tariff on foreign ethanol. However, this tariff might not be sufficient to deter overseas producers from importing ethanol into the domestic market, resulting in depressed ethanol prices. It is also important to note that the tariff on foreign ethanol is the subject of ongoing controversy and disagreement amongst lawmakers. Many lawmakers attribute growth in the ethanol industry to increases in food prices. They see foreign competition in ethanol production as a means of controlling food prices. Additionally, the tariff on ethanol has sparked international criticism because it diverts corn from export and prevents Latin American agricultural development. Foreign competitors are likely to have lower input, energy and labor costs, as well as less restrictive environmental practices and laws. International feedstocks might be less costly and more sustainable than corn. Additionally, the bulk of the domestic ethanol market is located on the coasts in areas of greater population density. It is possible that it could be cheaper to import foreign ethanol via tanker than transport our subsidiaries’ ethanol to coastal markets via rail or truck. The primary source of foreign competition is Brazil, which is the world’s second largest producer after the U.S. Brazil produces ethanol from sugarcane, which as a feedstock costs about 30% to 40% less than corn. Additionally, in comparison to the U.S., the Brazilian ethanol industry is more mature and more fully developed. Much of the industrial infrastructure that the U.S. is lacking is already in place in Brazil. Ethanol produced or processed in certain countries in Central America and the Caribbean region is eligible for tariff reduction or elimination upon importation to the United States under a program known as the Caribbean Basin Initiative. Large ethanol producers, such as Cargill, have expressed interest in building dehydration plants in participating Caribbean Basin countries, such as El Salvador, which would convert ethanol into fuel-grade ethanol for shipment to the United States. Ethanol imported from Caribbean Basin countries may be a less expensive alternative to domestically produced ethanol. Materially, the threat of imported ethanol either directly from Brazil even with the import tariff, or from a Caribbean Basin source, is very real. While transportation and infrastructure constraints may temper the market impact throughout the U.S., competition from imported ethanol may affect our ability to sell our ethanol profitably, which may have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. If significant additional foreign ethanol production capacity is created, such facilities could create excess supplies of ethanol on world markets which may result in lower prices of ethanol throughout the world, including the U.S. We believe that an increased supply of ethanol in world markets may be mitigated to some extent by increased ethanol demand, due in part to higher oil prices. Such foreign competition is a risk to our businesses. Further, if the tariff on foreign ethanol is ever lifted, overturned, expired, repealed or reduced, our ability to profitably compete with low-cost international producers is questionable. Any penetration of ethanol imports into the domestic market may have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. We depend on our technology providers for ongoing support services. We are dependent upon our technology providers for ongoing support services at our ethanol plants. Our process technologies are licensed from others. If the plants do not operate to the level anticipated by us in our business plan, we will rely on our technology providers to adequately address such deficiencies. There is no assurance that they will be able to address such deficiencies in an acceptable manner. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. If there are defects in the construction of one or more plants, it may negatively affect our ability to operate the plants. There is no assurance that defects in materials and/or workmanship in the plants will not occur. Under the terms of the design-build contracts, our builders have warranted that the material and equipment furnished to build the plant would be new, of good quality, and free from material defects in material or workmanship at the time of delivery. Though the design-build contracts require our builders to correct all defects in material or workmanship for a period of one year after substantial completion of the plant, material defects in material or workmanship may still occur. Such defects could cause us to halt or discontinue the plant’s operations. Any such event may have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. Replacement technologies are under development that might result in product or process system obsolescence Ethanol is primarily an additive and oxygenate for blended gasoline. Although use is currently mandated, there is always the possibility that a preferred alternative product will emerge and eclipse the current market. Critics of ethanol blends argue that ethanol decreases fuel economy, causes corrosion of ferrous components and damages fuel pumps. Any alternative oxygenate product would likely be a form of alcohol (like ethanol) or ether (like MTBE). Prior to federal restrictions and ethanol mandates, MTBE was the dominant oxygenate. It is possible that other ether products could enter the market and prove to be environmentally or economically superior to ethanol. More likely, it is possible that alternative biofuel alcohols such as methanol and butanol could evolve into ethanol replacement products. Such development an ethanol replacement product may have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. 19 Even if ethanol remains the dominant additive and oxygenate, technological innovation could have a profound impact on the corn ethanol system. The development of cellulosic ethanol obtained from other sources of biomass, such as switchgrass or fast growing poplar trees, could ultimately displace corn ethanol production. Federal policies suggest a long-term political preference for cellulosic processes using alternative feedstocks such as switchgrass, silage, wood chips or other forms biomass. Cellulosic ethanol has a smaller carbon footprint because the feedstock does not require energy-intensive fertilizers and industrial production processes. Additionally, cellulosic ethanol is favored because it is unlikely that foodstuff is being diverted from the market. Several cellulosic ethanol plants are under development. At present, it is unlikely that cellulose is an economically-viable alternative to corn. However, if research and de velopment programs persist, there is the risk that cellulosic ethanol could displace corn ethanol at some point in the future. Although there are probably opportunities to incorporate cellulosic processes into our existing corn ethanol plants, it must be acknowledged that innovation in cellulose might have an adverse impact on our enterprises. Our plants are designed as single-feedstock facilities. Additionally, our plants are strategically located in high-yield, low-cost corn production areas. At present, there is limited supply of alternative feedstocks near our facilities. There is limited ability to adapt the plants to a different feedstock or process system without substantial reinvestment and retooling. We use Delta T process technologies in Superior. The Shenandoah, Obion and Bluffton plants use ICM process technologies. These process technologies are industry standards. However, they use significant amounts of energy. There is the possibility that new process technologies will emerge that require less energy. The development of such process technologies would result in lower production costs. Our process technologies may become outdated and obsolete, placing us at a competitive disadvantage against competitors in the industry. The development of replacement technologies may have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. Reductions to the RFS mandate or blending industry contraction could result in reduced or unprofitable operations for Blendstar. Whereas Blendstar takes no commodity price risk associated with offering splash blending and transflowing facilities, it bears volumetric risks associated with industry contraction. Changes in RFS levels, the blender’s credit, or other factors affecting our customers’ ability to profitably blend volumes of ethanol may adversely affect throughput levels at Blendstar’s facilities. Blendstar attempts to mitigate this risk through longer term take or pay contracts. While we believe the RFS will likely force incremental blending regardless of near-term price factors, a contraction in blending volumes in Blendstar’s markets or general industry contraction related to the use of ethanol would likely have an adverse impact on Blendstar’s operations, cash flows and financial performance. We are exposed to the possibility that a loss may occur from the failure of another party to perform according to the terms of a marketing contract with Green Plains Trade. Under our third-party marketing agreements, through Green Plains Trade, we purchase all of our contract third-party producers’ ethanol production. In turn, we sell the ethanol in various markets for deliveries in the future. The unexpected interruption or curtailment of production could cause us to be unable to deliver quantities of ethanol sold under the contracts. As a result, we may be forced to purchase replacement quantities of ethanol at higher prices to fulfill these contractual obligations. Costs we incur to acquire replacement quantities to fulfill these contractual obligations or to terminate our sales contracts are recoverable under our third-party marketing agreements. However, these recoveries would be dependent on our third-party producer’s ability to pay, and in the event they were unable to pay, Green Plains Trade’s profitability would be materially and adversely impacted. The operation of new ethanol plants in Green Plains Grain’s trade territory could substantially reduce the volume of corn that it buys and merchandises, which would adversely affect the operating income of its grain division. Green Plains Grain’s largest single source of operating income is from buying corn and soybeans from producers and share-crop landlords, drying and storing these grain products, and merchandising them to various purchasers. Four ethanol plants are currently operating within or near Green Plains Grain’s trade territory, which includes our plant in Superior and other plants at Ashton, Emmetsburg and Hartley, all located in northwest Iowa. Two additional ethanol plants, in Albert City, IA and Welcome, MN, have been built in or near Green Plains Grain’s trade territory and are idle at this time. In addition, another ethanol operator has announced its intention to complete construction of an ethanol plant at Fairmont, MN. If the Fairmont plant is eventually constructed and all plants in or near Green Plains Grains’ trade territory are operated at full capacity, we estimate that these ethanol plants would buy approximately 206 million bushel s of corn each year. This compares to approximately 23 and 18 million bushels of corn that Green Plains Grain merchandized during the 2008 and 2007 calendar years, respectively. 20 The significant capital costs of an ethanol plant and the high costs of temporarily shutting down an ethanol plant provide strong incentives for these plants to be continuously operated, even during periods of high corn prices relative to the price of ethanol. As a result, the operators of ethanol plants often are willing to buy the corn necessary to maintain production at prices that may exceed the prices being paid by other corn end-users. In contrast, Green Plains Grain is limited in the price that it can pay for corn by the prices at which it can sell the corn to various buyers. This disparity in corn pricing may result in Green Plains Grain being unable to profitably buy corn during certain periods, which would reduce the annual volume of corn and its operating profits. Green Plains Grain may also be forced to pay higher prices for corn in order to fulfill contractual grain delivery obligations, resulting in a loss on the pu rchase and resale of corn or a reduction in the profit margin on such corn. It is impossible to predict the impact of the operation of these ethanol plants within or near Green Plains Grain’s trade territory on Green Plains Grain’s profitability since there is no comparable historical experience. The markets for Green Plains Grain’s products are highly competitive. Competitive pressures in all of Green Plains Grain’s businesses could affect the price of and customer demand for its products, thereby negatively impacting its profit margins and resulting in a loss of market share. In addition to the special risks from the ethanol industry discussed above, Green Plains Grain’s grain business also competes with other grain merchandisers, grain processors and end-users for the purchase of grain, as well as with other grain merchandisers, private elevator operators and cooperatives for the sale of grain. Many of Green Plains Grain’s competitors are significantly larger and compete in more diverse markets. The failure of Green Plains Grain to effectively compete in its markets would reduce its profitability. Green Plains Grain’s business may be adversely affected by conditions beyond its control, including weather conditions, political developments, disruptions in transportation, and international petroleum risks. Many of Green Plains Grain’s business activities are dependent on weather conditions. Weather risks may result in: (1) a reduction in the sales of fertilizer and pesticides caused by too much rain during application periods, (2) a reduction in grain harvests caused by too little or too much rain during the growing season, (3) a reduction in grain harvests caused by too much rain or an early freeze during the harvest season, and (4) damage to corn stored on an open pile caused by too much rain and warm weather before the corn is dried, shipped, consumed or moved into a storage structure. National and international political developments subject Green Plains Grain’s business to a variety of security risks, including bio-terrorism, and other terrorist threats to data security and physical loss to its facilities. In order to protect itself against these risks and stay current with new government legislation and regulatory actions, Green Plains Grain may need to incur significant costs. No level of regulatory compliance can guarantee that security threats will never occur. If there were a disruption in available transportation due to natural disaster, strike or other factors, Green Plains Grain may be unable to get raw materials inventory to its facilities, product to its customers, or ship grain to market. This could disrupt Green Plains Grain’s operations and cause it to be unable to meet its customers’ needs or fulfill its contractual grain delivery obligations. The international nature of petroleum production, import restrictions, embargoes and refining capacity limitations could severely impact the availability of petroleum products causing severe economic hardship on the performance of Green Plains Grain’s Petroleum Division. Many of Green Plains Grain’s business lines are affected by the supply and demand of commodities, and are sensitive to factors outside of our control. Adverse price movements could adversely affect its profitability and results of operations. Green Plains Grain buys, sells and holds inventories of various commodities, some of which are readily traded on commodity futures exchanges. Weather, economic, political, environmental and technological conditions and developments, both local and worldwide, as well as other factors beyond Green Plains Grain’s control, can affect the supply and demand of these commodities and expose it to liquidity pressures due to rapidly rising or falling market prices. Changes in the supply and demand of these commodities can also affect the value of inventories held by Green Plains Grain, as well as the price of raw materials. Increased costs of inventory and prices of raw materials could decrease profit margins and adversely affect profitability. 21 While Green Plains Grain hedges the majority of its grain inventory positions with derivative instruments to manage risk associated with commodity price changes, including purchase and sale contracts, it is unable to hedge 100% of the price risk of each transaction due to timing, unavailability of hedge contracts counterparties, and third party credit risk. Furthermore, there is a risk that the derivatives Green Plains Grain employs will not be effective in offsetting the changes associated with the risks it is trying to manage. This can happen when the derivative and the hedged item are not perfectly matched. Green Plains Grain’s grain derivatives, for example, do not hedge the basis pricing component of its grain inventory and contracts. (Basis is defined as the difference between the cash price of a commodity in a Green Plains Grain facility and the nearest in time exchange-traded futures price.) Differences can reflect t ime periods, locations or product forms. Although the basis component is smaller and generally less volatile than the futures component of grain market price, significant unfavorable basis movement on a grain position as large as Green Plains Grain’s can significantly impact its profitability. Green Plains Grain sells agronomy products to producers which necessitates the purchase of large volumes of fertilizer and chemicals for retail sale. Fixed-price purchase obligations and carrying inventories of these products subject us to the risk of market price fluctuations for periods of time between the time of purchase and final sale. Green Plains Grain also sells petroleum products to their customers. Gasoline, diesel and propane are purchased for resale to our retail customers. We are also at risk for market changes of these products while in inventory or subject to fixed-price purchase agreements, and while Green Plains Grain uses contracts with customers to help mitigate these price risks, this risk could have a material adverse effect on Green Plains Grain’s profitability. Green Plains Grain relies on a limited number of suppliers for its products, and the loss of one or several of these suppliers could increase its costs and have a material adverse effect on its business. Green Plains Grain relies on a limited number of suppliers for its products. If it is unable to obtain these raw materials and products from its current vendors, or if there were significant increases in its suppliers’ prices, it could disrupt operations, thereby significantly increasing its costs and reducing profit margins. Green Plains Grain may be subject to additional funding requirements for its pension plan, which could negatively impact profits. Green Plains Grain maintains a defined benefit pension plan. Although benefits under the plan were frozen as of January 1, 2009, Green Plains Grain remains obligated to ensure that the plan is funded in accordance with applicable requirements. As of December 31, 2008, the pension plan’s liabilities exceeded its assets by approximately $1.3 million. Minimum funding standards generally require a plan’s underfunding to be made up over a seven-year period. The amount of underfunding could increase or decrease, based on investment returns of the plan’s assets or changes in the assumed discount rate used to value benefit obligations, which could adversely impact Green Plains Grain’s profitability. Risks Related to Conflicts of Interest We have conflicts of interest with our design builders and technology providers which could result in loss of capital and reduced financial performance. We are and will continue to be advised by one or more employees or associates of our design builders and technology providers. Our design builders and technology providers are expected to continue to be involved in substantially all material aspects of their respective plant operations for some time. Some of our design builders and technology providers have an ownership interest in us. Consequently, the terms and conditions of our agreements and understandings with them may not have been negotiated at arm’s length. Therefore, there is no assurance that our arrangements with such parties are as favorable to them as could have been if obtained from unaffiliated third parties. In addition, because of the extensive role that they are expected to have in the operation of our plants, it may be difficult or impossible for us to enforce claims that it may have against them, if a claim were to arise. If this were to occur, it may have a material adverse impac t on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. Our design builders and technology providers and their affiliates may also have conflicts of interest because employees or agents of the design builders and technology providers are involved as owners, creditors and in other capacities with other ethanol plants in the United States. We cannot require design builders and technology providers to devote their full time or attention to their activities. Though we will attempt to address actual or potential material conflicts of interest as they arise or become known, we have not established any formal procedures to address or resolve conflicts of interest. There is no assurance that any conflict of interest will not have adverse consequences to our operations, cash flows and financial performance. 22 Our consultants, vendors and contractors may have financial and other interests that conflict with their interests, and they may place their interests ahead of our interests. Entities and individuals engaged as suppliers, consultants, vendors and contractors of ours will have financial interests that may conflict with our interests. In addition, the suppliers, consultants, vendors and contactors may have commitments to and financial interests in other ethanol plants located in the same geographic and market area as our plants. As a result, they may have a conflict of interest as they allocate personnel, materials and other resources to our plants and others. Risks Related to Regulation and Governmental Action The loss of favorable tax benefits for ethanol production could adversely affect the market for ethanol. The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 created the volumetric ethanol excise tax credit. Referred to as the blender’s credit, VEETC provides companies with a tax credit to blend ethanol with gasoline. VEETC expires on December 31, 2010. The Food, Conservation and Energy Act of 2008 (the “2008 Farm Bill”) amended the amount of tax credit provided under VEETC to 45 cents per gallon of pure ethanol beginning January 1, 2009 and 38 cents per gallon for E85. The elimination or further reduction of VEETC or other federal tax incentives to the ethanol industry would have a material adverse impact on our business by making it more costly or difficult for us to produce and sell ethanol. The loss of favorable government usage mandates affecting ethanol production could adversely affect the market for ethanol. Federal law requires the use of oxygenated gasoline. If these mandates are repealed, the market for domestic ethanol would be diminished significantly. Additionally, flexible-fuel vehicles receive preferential treatment in meeting CAFE standards. High blend ethanol fuels such as E85 result in lower fuel efficiencies. Absent the CAFE preferences, it is unlikely that flexible-fuel vehicles could meet standards. Any change in these CAFE preferences could reduce growth of E85 markets and result in lower ethanol prices. There has been an increase in the number of claims against the use of ethanol as an alternative energy source. Many of such claims attempt to draw a link between recently increasing global food prices and the use of corn to produce ethanol. Others claim that the production of ethanol requires too much energy. Such claims have led some, including members of Congress, to urge the modification of current government policies which affect the production and sale of ethanol in the United States, such as the VEETC, the Renewable Fuels Standard and the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 (the “2007 Act”). Similarly, several states which currently have laws which affect the production and sale of ethanol, such as mandated usage of ethanol, have proposed to modify or eliminate such mandates. To the extent that such state or federal laws were modified, the demand for ethanol may be reduced, which could negatively and materially affect our ability to operate profitably. The Renewable Fuel Standard mandate with respect to ethanol derived from grain could be reduced or waived entirely. During 2008, the Governor of Texas petitioned the EPA for a waiver of 50 percent of the RFS mandate for the production of ethanol derived from grain, citing adverse economic impact due to higher corn, feed and food prices. The administrator of the EPA did not grant this waiver. However, similar petitions might be filed in the future. Any such RFS waiver, if granted in the future, could adversely affect prices of ethanol and our financial performance in the future. Recent legislation indicates increasing federal support for cellulosic ethanol as an alternative to corn-derived ethanol. Recent legislation, such as the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 and the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007, provides numerous funding opportunities in support of cellulosic ethanol. In addition, the amended RFS mandates an increasing level of production of biofuels which are not derived from corn. These policies suggest an increasing policy preference away from corn ethanol and toward cellulosic ethanol. The profitability of ethanol production depends heavily on federal incentives. The loss or reduction of incentives from the federal government in favor of corn-based ethanol production may reduce our profitability. Our inability to obtain required regulatory permits and/or approvals will impede our ability and may prohibit completely our ability to successfully operate the plants. Our ethanol production and agribusiness activities are subject to extensive air, water and other environmental regulation. We have had to obtain a number of environmental permits to construct and operate our plants. Ethanol production involves the emission of various airborne pollutants, including particulate, carbon dioxide, oxides of nitrogen, hazardous air pollutants and volatile organic compounds. We believe we have obtained the permits necessary for operation of the plants. In addition, the governing state agencies could impose conditions or other restrictions in the permits that are detrimental to us or which increase our costs above those assumed in any such project. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. 23 A change in environmental and safety regulations or violations thereof could impede our ability to successfully operate the plants. Currently, EPA rules and regulations do not require us to obtain separate EPA approval in connection with operation of the plants. Additionally, environmental laws and regulations, both at the federal and state level, are subject to change and changes can be made retroactively. It is possible that more stringent federal or state environmental rules or regulations could be adopted, which could increase our operating costs and expenses. Consequently, even if we have the proper permits at the present time, we may be required to invest or spend considerable resources to comply with future environmental regulations. Furthermore, ongoing plant operations are governed by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”). OSHA regulations may change such that the costs of operations at the plants may increase. If any of these events were to occur, they may have a material adverse impact on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. P> Our plants emit carbon dioxide as a by-product of the ethanol production process. The United States Supreme Court recently classified carbon dioxide as an air pollutant under the Clean Air Act in a case seeking to require the EPA to regulate carbon dioxide in vehicle emissions. Similar lawsuits have been filed seeking to require the EPA to regulate carbon dioxide emissions from stationary sources such as ethanol plants under the Clean Air Act. In addition, lawmakers have recently indicated an interest in adopting a comprehensive carbon dioxide regulatory scheme, such as a carbon tax or cap-and-trade system. While there are currently no applicable regulations, if state or federal authorities decide to regulate carbon dioxide emissions by plants such as ours, we may have to apply for additional permits or we may be required to install carbon dioxide mitigation equipment or take other steps unknown to us at this time in order to comply with such law or regul ation. Compliance with future regulation of carbon dioxide, if it occurs, could be costly and may prevent us from operating our plants profitably, which may have a material adverse impact on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. We handle potentially hazardous materials in our businesses. If environmental requirements become more stringent or if we experience unanticipated environmental hazards, we could be subject to significant costs and liabilities. A significant part of our business is regulated by environmental laws and regulations, including those governing the labeling, use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous materials. Because we use and handle hazardous substances in our businesses, changes in environmental requirements or an unanticipated significant adverse environmental event could have a material adverse effect on its business. There is no assurance that we have been, or will at all times be, in compliance with all environmental requirements, or that it will not incur material costs or liabilities in connection with these requirements. Private parties, including current and former employees, could bring personal injury or other claims against us due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances used, stored or disposed of by us, or contained in its products. We are also exposed to residual risk because some of our facilities and land may have environmental liabilities a rising from their prior use. In addition, changes to environmental regulations may require us to modify existing plant and processing facilities and could significantly increase the cost of those operations. Our agribusiness operations are highly regulated and changes in government regulations or trade association policies could adversely affect our results of operations. Green Plains Grain’s operations are subject to government regulation and regulation by certain private sector associations, compliance with which can impose significant costs on its business. Failure to comply with such regulations can result in additional costs, fines or criminal action. Production levels, markets and prices of the grains Green Plains Grain merchandises are affected by federal government programs, which include acreage control and price support programs of the United States Department of Agriculture (“USDA”). In addition, grain sold by Green Plains Grain must conform to official grade standards imposed by the USDA. Other examples of government policies that can have an impact on Green Plains Grain’s business include tariffs, duties, subsidies, import and export restrictions and outright embargos. Changes in government policies and producer supports may impact the amount and type of grains planted, which in turn, may impact Green Plains Grain’s ability to buy grain in its market region. Because a portion of Green Plains Grain’s grain sales are to exporters, the imposition of export restrictions could limit its sales opportunities. Risks Related to our Common Stock We have capitalized our company with substantial debt leverage, resulting in substantial debt service requirements that could reduce the value of our stock. Our capital structure is highly leveraged and our debt service requirements could have important consequences which could reduce the value of our common stock, including: · limiting our ability to borrow additional amounts for operating capital and other purposes or creating a situation in which such ability to borrow may be available on terms that are not favorable to us; 24 · reducing funds available for operations and distributions because a substantial portion of our cash flow will be used to pay interest and principal on our debt; · making us vulnerable to increases in prevailing interest rates; · placing us at a competitive disadvantage because it may be substantially more leveraged than some of our competitors, particularly older debt-free facilities and facilities that have been or will be reorganized due to bankruptcy; · subjecting all, or substantially all of our assets to liens, which means that there will be few, if any, assets available for shareholders in the event of a liquidation; and · limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions, which could increase our vulnerability to a downturn in our business or general economic conditions. In the event that we are unable to pay our debt service obligations, we could be forced to: (1) reduce or eliminate dividends to stockholders, if they were to commence or (2) reduce or eliminate needed capital expenditures. It is possible that we could be forced to sell assets, seek to obtain additional equity capital or refinance or restructure all or a portion of our debt. In the event that we are unable to refinance our indebtedness or raise funds through asset sales, sales of equity or otherwise, our business would be adversely affected and we may be forced to liquidate, and investors could lose their entire investment. Our lenders require us to abide by certain restrictive loan covenants that may hinder our ability to operate and reduce our profitability. The loan agreements governing our secured debt financing contain a number of restrictive affirmative and negative covenants. These covenants limit our ability to, among other things: · incur additional indebtedness; · make capital expenditures in excess of prescribed thresholds; · pay dividends to stockholders; · make various investments; · create liens on our assets; · acquire other companies or operations; · utilize the proceeds of asset sales; or · merge or consolidate or dispose of all or substantially all of our assets. We are also required to maintain specified financial ratios, including minimum cash flow coverage, minimum working capital and minimum net worth. Our respective loan agreements require us to utilize a portion of any excess cash flow generated by operations to prepay the respective term debt. A breach of any of these covenants or requirements could result in a default under our loan agreements. If any of our subsidiaries default, and if such default is not cured or waived, our lenders could, among other remedies, accelerate their debt and declare that such debt is immediately due and payable. If this occurs, we may not be able to repay such debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance. Even if new financing is available, it may not be on terms that are acceptable. No assurance can be given that the Company’s future operating results will be sufficient to achieve compliance with such covenants and requirements, or in the event of a default, to remedy s uch default. Our stock price is volatile and our stock is thinly traded. The trading price of our common stock is subject to significant fluctuations in response to many factors, including changes in: · conditions in the biofuels industry generally; · our business, operations and prospects; · our quarterly operating results; · market assessments of our business, operations and prospects; · federal, state and local laws, governmental regulation and other legal developments affecting the biofuels industry; and · market prices for ethanol, distillers grains or feedstocks such as corn or natural gas. 25 In addition, the volume of trading in our stock is relatively low. For this reason, we have few institutional shareholders and do not receive a significant amount of analyst coverage. Consequently, any investment made in our stock may be relatively illiquid for an indefinite period. Our common stock may be diluted in value and will be subject to further dilution in value. As of December 31, 2008, we had outstanding stock options exercisable for 1,311,528 shares of common stock at exercise prices of between $0.14 and $30 per share. If for any reason we are required in the future to raise additional equity capital, if options are granted or additional shares are issued to our employees, officers or directors, our current shareholders may suffer further dilution to their investment. There is no assurance that further dilution will not occur in the future. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock could cause the price of our common stock to decline. We issued 3,373,103 shares of our common stock in the merger with VBV which are freely transferable and resalable without restriction on the Nasdaq Capital Market, and 7,498,369 shares of our common stock were issued to certain “affiliates” in the Merger which may be resold on the Nasdaq Global Market (or such other market as our common stock may be listed on), subject to compliance with Rule 144. In addition, we have granted parties to the shareholders’ agreement that was entered into in connection with the merger with VBV certain rights to demand registration of their shares for public resale, beginning 18 months after the closing of the merger. Sales of a substantial number of these shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and could impair the ability of our shareholders to sell their shares of common stock in the amounts and at such times and prices as they may desire. In addition, the sale of these shares could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. Our focus on ethanol could result in the devaluation of our common stock if revenues from our primary products decrease. Our success is primarily linked to the profitability of producing and selling ethanol and distillers grains. Our lack of business diversification means that we may not be able to adapt to changing market conditions or to handle any significant decline in the ethanol industry, which would have an adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. Because we have limited alternative revenue sources and significant capital invested in ethanol production, shareholders could lose some or all of their investment if we are unable to produce and sell ethanol and distillers grains profitably or if the markets for those products decline. Unidentified Risks The foregoing discussion is not a complete list or explanation of the risks involved with an investment in this business. Additional risks will likely be experienced that are not presently foreseen by us. Investors are not to construe this report as constituting legal or tax advice. Before making any decision to invest in us, investors should read this entire report, including all of its exhibits, and consult with their own investment, legal, tax and other professional advisors. An investor should be aware that we will assert that the investor consented to the risks and the conflicts of interest described or inherent in this report if the investor brings a claim against us or any of our directors, officers, managers, employees, advisors, agents or representatives. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 