ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in our common stock involves a number of risks. These risks include those described in this confidential private placement memorandum and others we have not anticipated or discussed. Before you purchase the Securities you should carefully consider the information about risks identified below, as well as the information about risks stated in other parts of this memorandum and in our filings with the Commission that we have incorporated by reference in this memorandum. Any of the risks discussed below or elsewhere in this memorandum or in our Commission filings, and other risks we have not anticipated or discussed, could have a material impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. As a result, they could have an impact on our ability to pay any amounts d ue with respect to the Securities, or our stock price. Risks Relating to Our Business We have a limited operating history, and we may not be able to operate profitably in the near future, if at all. We have a limited operating history. Businesses which are starting up or in their initial stages of development present substantial business and financial risks and may suffer significant losses from which they cannot recover. We will face all of the challenges of a new business enterprise, including but not limited to, locating and successfully developing oil and gas properties, locating suitable office space, engaging the services of qualified support personnel and consultants, establishing budgets and implementing appropriate financial controls and internal operating policies and procedures. We will need to attract and retain a number of key employees and other service personnel. We have limited operating capital. While we believe that we have sufficient cash on hand and cash flow from operations to fund recurring production operating expenses and base general and administrative requirements, over the longer term we may not. The amount of capital available to us is limited, and may not be sufficient to enable us to fully execute our capital expenditure program and growth initiatives with additional funding sources. Additional financing may also be required to achieve our objectives and provide working capital for organizational infrastructure developments necessary to achieve our growth plans and reach a level of oil and gas operating activities that allows us to take advantage of certain economies of scale inherent to our business which would provide us the ability to reduce costs on a per unit of production basis. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such financing on attractive terms, if at all. We have no firm commitments for additional cash funding. Our Credit Facility was secured with substantially all existing and after acquired assets, and was subject to financial covenants that we were required to meet. Our Revolving Line of Credit and Letter of Credit Facility with Amegy Bank that we entered into on October 8, 2008 was secured by substantially all of our existing and after acquired assets. The availability of funds and repayments of borrowed funds were subject to periodic borrowing base determinations. Amegy Bank’s lending commitment and our borrowing capacity was subject to increases or decreases as the collateral value of the oil and gas properties securing the Credit Facility fluctuates with factors such as changes in commodity prices, revisions to reserve estimates, and changes in capital expenditure and operating cost estimates. On March 31, 2010, the Amegy Bank’s lending commitment to us was approximately $2.0 million while the outstanding principal balance due to Ame gy Bank under Credit Facility was $2.15 million. The maturity of outstanding borrowings under the Credit Facility was three (3) years from closing the Credit Facility, or earlier if repayments are required pursuant to periodic borrow base redetermination. The Credit Facility contained financial covenants that we were required to meet and if not met, we would be required to request waiver(s). 5 Table of Contents On May 5, 2010, Lucas paid off the outstanding balance under the Amegy Bank Credit Facility, and terminated the Facility. In connection with the repayment and termination of the Credit Facility, Amegy Bank released all liens. Future financings may necessitate that substantially all or a portion of our assets be pledged to a counterparty, and could include financial covenants requirements similar to the covenants that existed under the Amegy Credit Facility which we may or may not be able to meet. We do not intend to pay dividends to our shareholders. We do not currently intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying any dividends at any time in the foreseeable future. At present, we will follow a policy of retaining all of our earnings, if any, to finance development and expansion of our business. Our officers and directors have limited liability, and we are required in certain instances to indemnify our officers and directors for breaches of their fiduciary duties. We have adopted provisions in our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws which limit the liability of our officers and directors and provide for indemnification by us of our officers and directors to the full extent permitted by Nevada corporate law. Our articles generally provide that our officers and directors shall have no personal liability to us or our shareholders for monetary damages for breaches of their fiduciary duties as directors, except for breaches of their duties of loyalty, acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or knowing violation of law, acts involving unlawful payment of dividends or unlawful stock purchases or redemptions, or any transaction from which a director derives an improper personal benefit. Such provisions substantially limit our shareholders' ability to hold officers a nd directors liable for breaches of fiduciary duty, and may require us to indemnify our officers and directors. We face intense competition. We compete against many other energy companies, some of which have considerably greater resources and abilities. These competitors may have greater marketing and sales capacity, established distribution networks, significant goodwill and global name recognition. We depend significantly upon the continued involvement of our present management. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the involvement of our management, who are in charge of our strategic planning and operations. We may need to attract and retain additional talented individuals in order to carry out our business objectives. The competition for such persons could be intense and there are no assurances that these individuals will be available to us. Our business is subject to extensive regulation. As many of our activities are subject to federal, state and local regulation, and as these rules are subject to constant change or amendment, there can be no assurance that our operations will not be adversely affected by new or different government regulations, laws or court decisions applicable to our operations. Government regulation and liability for environmental matters may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Crude oil and natural gas operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local government regulations, which may be changed from time to time. Matters subject to regulation include discharge permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds, reports concerning operations, the spacing of wells, unitization and pooling of properties and taxation. From time to time, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on production by restricting the rate of flow of crude oil and natural gas wells below actual production capacity in order to conserve supplies of crude oil and natural gas. There are federal, state and local laws and regulations primarily relating to protection of human health and the environment applicable to the development, production, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of crude oil and natu ral gas, byproducts thereof and other substances and materials produced or used in connection with crude oil and natural gas operations. In addition, we may inherit liability for environmental damages caused by previous owners of property we purchase or lease. As a result, we may incur substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities. We are also subject to changing and extensive tax laws, the effects of which cannot be predicted. The implementation of new, or the modification of existing, laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on us. 6 Table of Contents The crude oil and natural gas reserves we report in our SEC filings are estimates and may prove to be inaccurate. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating crude oil and natural gas reserves and their estimated values. The reserves we will report in our filings with the SEC will only be estimates and such estimates may prove to be inaccurate because of these uncertainties. Reservoir engineering is a subjective and inexact process of estimating underground accumulations of crude oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. Estimates of economically recoverable crude oil and natural gas reserves depend upon a number of variable factors, such as historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas and assumptions concerning effects of regulations by governmental agencies, future crude oil and natural gas prices, future operating costs, severance and excise taxes, development costs a nd work-over and remedial costs. Some or all of these assumptions may in fact vary considerably from actual results. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of crude oil and natural gas attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of such reserves based on risk of recovery, and estimates of the future net cash flows expected there from prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers but at different times may vary substantially. Accordingly, reserve estimates may be subject to downward or upward adjustment. Actual production, revenue and expenditures with respect to our reserves will likely vary from estimates, and such variances may be material. Crude oil and natural gas development, re-completion of wells from one reservoir to another reservoir, restoring wells to production and drilling and completing new wells are speculative activities and involve numerous risks and substantial and uncertain costs. Our growth will be materially dependent upon the success of our future development program. Drilling for crude oil and natural gas and reworking existing wells involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive crude oil or natural gas reservoirs will be encountered. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is substantial and uncertain, and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or cancelled as a result of a variety of factors beyond our control, including: · unexpected drilling conditions; · pressure or irregularities in formations; · equipment failures or accidents; · inability to obtain leases on economic terms, where applicable; · adverse weather conditions and natural disasters; · compliance with governmental requirements; and · shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs or crews and the delivery of equipment. Drilling or reworking is a highly speculative activity. Even when fully and correctly utilized, modern well completion techniques such as hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling do not guarantee that we will find crude oil and/or natural gas in our wells. Hydraulic fracturing involves pumping a fluid with or without particulates into a formation at high pressure, thereby creating fractures in the rock and leaving the particulates in the fractures to ensure that the fractures remain open, thereby potentially increasing the ability of the reservoir to produce oil or gas. Horizontal drilling involves drilling horizontally out from an existing vertical well bore, thereby potentially increasing the area and reach of the well bore that is in contact with the reservoir. Our future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsucc essful, such failure would have an adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. We cannot assure you that our overall drilling success rate or our drilling success rate for activities within a particular geographic area will not decline. We may identify and develop prospects through a number of methods, some of which do not include lateral drilling or hydraulic fracturing, and some of which may be unproven. The drilling and results for these prospects may be particularly uncertain. Our drilling schedule may vary from our capital budget. The final determination with respect to the drilling of any scheduled or budgeted prospects will be dependent on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: · the results of previous development efforts and the acquisition, review and analysis of data; · the availability of sufficient capital resources to us and the other participants, if any, for the drilling of the prospects; · the approval of the prospects by other participants, if any, after additional data has been compiled; 7 Table of Contents · economic and industry conditions at the time of drilling, including prevailing and anticipated prices for crude oil and natural gas and the availability of drilling rigs and crews; · our financial resources and results; · the availability of leases and permits on reasonable terms for the prospects; and · the success of our drilling technology. We cannot assure you that these projects can be successfully developed or that the wells discussed will, if drilled, encounter reservoirs of commercially productive crude oil or natural gas. There are numerous uncertainties in estimating quantities of proved reserves, including many factors beyond our control. Crude oil and natural gas prices are highly volatile in general and low prices will negatively affect our financial results. Our revenues, operating results, profitability, cash flow, future rate of growth and ability to borrow funds or obtain additional capital, as well as the carrying value of our properties, are substantially dependent upon prevailing prices of crude oil and natural gas. Lower crude oil and natural gas prices also may reduce the amount of crude oil and natural gas that we can produce economically. Historically, the markets for crude oil and natural gas have been very volatile, and such markets are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. Prices for crude oil and natural gas are subject to wide fluctuation in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for crude oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, including: · worldwide and domestic supplies of crude oil and natural gas; · the level of consumer product demand; · weather conditions and natural disasters; · domestic and foreign governmental regulations; · the price and availability of alternative fuels; · political instability or armed conflict in oil producing regions; · the price and level of foreign imports; and · overall domestic and global economic conditions. It is extremely difficult to predict future crude oil and natural gas price movements with any certainty. Declines in crude oil and natural gas prices may materially adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity, ability to finance planned capital expenditures and results of operations. Further, oil and gas prices do not move in tandem. Risks Related To Share Ownership The market price for our common stock may be volatile, and you may not be able to sell our stock at a favorable price or at all. Many factors could cause the market price of our common stock to rise and fall, including: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly results of operations; • changes in market valuations of companies in our industry; • changes in expectations of future financial performance; • fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes; • issuances of dilutive common stock or other securities in the future; • the addition or departure of key personnel; • announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances; and • the increase or decline in the price of oil and natural gas. It is possible that the proceeds from sales of our common stock may not equal or exceed the prices you paid for it plus the costs and fees of making the sales. 8 Table of Contents Substantial sales of our common stock, or the perception that such sales might occur, could depress the market price of our common stock. We cannot predict whether future issuances of our common stock or resales in the open market will decrease the market price of our common stock. The impact of any such issuances or resales of our common stock on our market price may be increased as a result of the fact that our common stock is thinly, or infrequently, traded. The exercise of any options or the vesting of any restricted stock that we may grant to directors, executive officers and other employees in the future, the issuance of common stock in connection with acquisitions and other issuances of our common stock could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, future issuances of our common stock may be dilutive to existing shareholders. Any sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception tha t such sales might occur, could lower the market price of our common stock. Our common stock is considered "penny stock" securities under Exchange Act rules, which may limit the marketability of our securities. Our securities are considered low-priced or "designated" securities under rules promulgated under the Exchange Act. Under these rules, broker/dealers participating in transactions in low-priced securities must first deliver a risk disclosure document which describes the risks associated with such stocks, the broker/dealer's duties, the customer's rights and remedies, certain market and other information, and make a suitability determination approving the customer for low-priced stock transactions based on the customer's financial situation, investment experience and objectives. Broker/dealers must also disclose these restrictions in writing to the customer and obtain specific written consent of the customer, and provide monthly account statements to the customer. The likely effect of these restrictions is a decrease in the willingness of broker/dealers to make a market in the stock, decreased liquidity of the stock and increased transaction costs for sales and purchases of the stock as compared to other securities. IN ADDITION TO THE RISK FACTORS SET FORTH ABOVE, THE COMPANY IS SUBJECT TO NUMEROUS OTHER RISKS SPECIFIC TO THE PARTICULAR BUSINESS OF THE COMPANY, AS WELL AS GENERAL BUSINESS RISK. INVESTORS ARE URGED TO CONSIDER ALL OF THE RISKS INHERENT IN THE COMPANY'S SECURITIES PRIOR TO PURCHASING OR MAKING AN INVESTMENT DECISION. THE COMPANY'S SECURITIES ARE HIGHLY SPECULATIVE AND INVOLVE A VERY HIGH DEGREE OF RISK. Competition We are in direct competition with numerous oil and natural gas companies, drilling and income programs and partnerships exploring various areas of Texas and elsewhere competing for properties. Many competitors are large, well-known oil and gas and/or energy companies, although no single entity dominates the industry. Many of our competitors possess greater financial and personnel resources enabling them to identify and acquire more economically desirable energy producing properties and drilling prospects than us. Additionally, there is competition from other fuel choices to supply the energy needs of consumers and industry. Management believes that there exists a viable market place for smaller producers of natural gas and oil. Government Regulation In the United States, legislation affecting the oil and gas industry has been pervasive and is under constant review for amendment or expansion. Pursuant to such legislation, numerous federal, state and local departments and agencies have issued extensive rules and regulations binding on the oil and gas industry and its individual members, some of which carry substantial penalties for failure to comply. These laws and regulations have a significant impact on oil and gas drilling, gas processing plants and production activities, increasing the cost of doing business and, consequently, affect profitability. Insomuch as new legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is common place and existing laws and regulations are frequently amended or reinterpreted, Lucas Energy may be unable to predict the future cost or impact of complying wi th these laws and regulations. Lucas Energy considers the cost of environmental protection a necessary and manageable part of its business. Lucas Energy has been able to plan for and comply with new environmental initiatives without materially altering its operating strategies. 9 Table of Contents Exploration and Production Lucas Energy's operations are subject to various types of regulation at the federal, state and local levels. These regulations include requiring permits for the drilling of wells; maintaining prevention plans; submitting notification and receiving permits related to the presence, use and release of certain materials incidental to oil and gas operations; and regulating the location of wells, the method of drilling and casing wells, the use, transportation, storage and disposal of fluids and materials used in connection with drilling and production activities, surface plugging and abandoning of wells and the transporting of production. Lucas Energy's operations are also subject to various conservation matters, including the number of wells which may be drilled in a unit, and the unitization or pooling of oil and gas properties. In this regard, some states allow the forced pooling or integration of tracts to facilitate exploration while other states rely on voluntary pooling of lands and leases, which may make it more difficult to develop oil and gas properties. In addition state conservation laws establish maximum rates of production oil and gas wells, generally limit the venting or flaring of gas, and impose certain requirements regarding the ratable purchase of production. The effect of these regulations is to limit the amounts of oil and gas Lucas can produce from its wells and to limit the number of wells or the locations at which Lucas Energy can drill. Environmental Our exploration, development, and production of oil and gas, including our operation of saltwater injection and disposal wells, are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. Such laws and regulations can increase the costs of planning, designing, installing and operating oil and gas wells. Our domestic activities are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations, including but not limited to, the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 ("OPA"), the Clean Water Act ("CWA"), the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ("CERCLA"), the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ("RCRA"), the Clean Air Act ("CAA"), and the Safe Drinking Water Act ("SDWA"), as well as state regulations promulgated under comparable state statutes. We are also subject to regulations governing the h andling, transportation, storage, and disposal of naturally occurring radioactive materials that are found in our oil and gas operations. Civil and criminal fines and penalties may be imposed for non-compliance with these environmental laws and regulations. Additionally, these laws and regulations require the acquisition of permits or other governmental authorizations before undertaking certain activities, limit or prohibit other activities because of protected areas or species, and impose substantial liabilities for cleanup of pollution. Under the OPA, a release of oil into water or other areas designated by the statute could result in the company being held responsible for the costs of remediating such a release, certain OPA specified damages, and natural resource damages. The extent of that liability could be extensive, as set forth in the statute, depending on the nature of the release. A release of oil in harmful quantities or other materials into water or other specified areas could also result in the company being held responsible under the CWA for the costs of remediation, and civil and criminal fines and penalties. CERCLA and comparable state statutes, also known as "Superfund" laws, can impose joint and several and retroactive liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of persons for the release of a "hazardous substance" into the environment. In practice, cleanup costs are usually allocated among various responsible parties. Potentially liable parties include site owners or operators, past owners or operators under certain conditions, and entities that arrange for the disposal or treatment of, or transport hazardous substances found at the site. Although CERCLA, as amended, currently exempts petroleum, including but not limited to, crude oil, gas and natural gas liquids from the definition of hazardous substance, our operations may involve the use or handling of other materials that may be cl assified as hazardous substances under CERCLA. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the exemption will be preserved in future amendments of the act, if any. RCRA and comparable state and local requirements impose standards for the management, including treatment, storage, and disposal of both hazardous and non-hazardous solid wastes. We generate hazardous and non-hazardous solid waste in connection with our routine operations. From time to time, proposals have been made that would reclassify certain oil and gas wastes, including wastes generated during drilling, production and pipeline operations, as "hazardous wastes" under RCRA which would make such solid wastes subject to much more stringent handling, transportation, storage, disposal, and clean-up requirements. This development could have a significant impact on our operating costs. While state laws vary on this issue, state initiatives to further regulate oil and gas wastes could have a similar impact. Because oil and gas exploration and production, and possibly other activities, have been conducted at some of our properties by previous owners and operators, materials from these operations remain on some of the properties and in some instances require remediation. In addition, in certain instances we have agreed to indemnify sellers of producing properties from which we have acquired reserves against certain liabilities for environmental claims associated with such properties. While we do not believe that costs to be incurred by us for compliance and remediating previously or currently owned or operated properties will be material, there can be no guarantee that such costs will not result in material expenditures. 10 Table of Contents Additionally, in the course of our routine oil and gas operations, surface spills and leaks, including casing leaks, of oil or other materials occur, and we incur costs for waste handling and environmental compliance. Moreover, we are able to control directly the operations of only those wells for which we act as the operator. Management believes that the Company is in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations. We do not anticipate being required in the near future to expend amounts that are material in relation to our total capital expenditures program by reason of environmental laws and regulations, but inasmuch as such laws and regulations are frequently changed, we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance. There can be no assurance that more stringent laws and regulations protecting the environment will not be adopted or that we will not otherwise incur material expenses in connection with environmental laws and regulations in the future. Occupational Health and Safety Lucas Energy is also subject to laws and regulations concerning occupational safety and health. Due to the continued changes in these laws and regulations, and the judicial construction of many of them, Lucas Energy is unable to predict with any reasonable degree of certainty its future costs of complying with these laws and regulations. Lucas Energy considers the cost of safety and health compliance a necessary and manageable part of its business. Lucas Energy has been able to plan for and comply with new initiatives without materially altering its operating strategies. Lucas Energy is subject to certain laws and regulations relating to environmental remediation activities associated with past operations, such as the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act ("CERCLA") and similar state statutes. In response to liabilities associated with these activities, accruals have been established when reasonable estimates are possible. Such accruals primarily include estimated costs associated with remediation. Lucas Energy has used discounting to present value in determining its accrued liabilities for environmental remediation or well closure, but no material claims for possible recovery from third party insurers or other parties related to environmental costs have been recognized in Lucas Energy's financial statements. Lucas Energy adjusts the accruals when new remediation respon sibilities are discovered and probable costs become estimable, or when current remediation estimates must be adjusted to reflect new information. Taxation The operations of the Company, as is the case in the petroleum industry generally, are significantly affected by federal tax laws. Federal, as well as state, tax laws have many provisions applicable to corporations which could affect the future tax liability of the Company. Commitments and Contingencies Lucas Energy is liable for future restoration and abandonment costs associated with its oil and gas properties. These costs include future site restoration, post closure and other environmental exit costs. The costs of future restoration and well abandonment have not been determined in detail. State regulations require operators to post bonds that assure that well sites will be properly plugged and abandoned. Each state in which Lucas Energy operates requires a security bond varying in value from state to state and depending on the number of wells that Lucas Energy operates. Management views this as a necessary requirement for operations within each state and does not believe that these costs will have a material adverse effect on its financial position as a result of this requirement. 11 Table of Contents 