Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves substantial risks and the investment is suitable only for persons with the financial capability to make and hold long-term investments not readily converted into cash. Investors must, therefore, have adequate means of providing for their current and future needs and personal contingencies. Prospective purchasers of our securities should carefully consider the Risk Factors set forth below, as well as the other information appearing in this report, before making any investment in our securities. Investors should understand that there is a possibility that they could loose their entire investment in the Company. Risks Related to the Common Stock We plan to construct the Plant by means of substantial leverage of equity, resulting in substantial debt service requirements that could reduce the value of your investment. We raised gross proceeds of $34,459,900 in our recent public offering. Upon completion of the Plant, we anticipate that our total term debt obligations will be approximately $47 million. As a result, our capital structure will be highly leveraged. Our debt load and service requirements could have important consequences which could reduce the value of your investment, including: o Limiting our ability to borrow additional amounts for operating capital and other purposes or creating a situation in which such ability to borrow may be available on terms that are not favorable to us; o Reducing funds available for operations and distributions because a substantial portion of our cash flow will be used to pay interest and principal on our debt; o Making us vulnerable to increases in prevailing interest rates; 26 o Placing us at a competitive disadvantage because we may be substantially more leveraged than some of our competitors; o Subjecting all, or substantially all of our assets to liens, which means that there will be virtually no assets left for stockholders in the event of a liquidation; and, o Limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions, which could increase our vulnerability to a downturn in our business or general economic conditions. In the event that we are unable to pay our debt service obligations, we could be forced to: (a) reduce or eliminate dividends to stockholders, if they were to commence or (b) reduce or eliminated needed capital expenditures. It is possible that we could be forced to sell assets, seek to obtain additional equity capital or refinance or restructure all or a portion of its debt. In the event that we are unable to refinance our indebtedness or raise funds through asset sales, sales of equity or otherwise, our business would be adversely affected and we may be forced to liquidate, and investors could lose their entire investment. There is currently no established public trading market for our common stock and your investment may be illiquid for an indefinite amount of time. We have applied for listing on the NASDAQ Small Cap market. Our application is under review. Although we have no reason to believe our application to NASDAQ will not be accepted, no assurance can be given that our stock will be accepted for listing or trading on the NASDAQ Small Cap market, on any exchange or in any other market. Therefore, no assurance can be given that an active, public trading market will ever develop. Our lenders require us to abide by certain restrictive loan covenants that may hinder our ability to operate and reduce our profitability. The loan agreements governing our secured debt financing contain a number of restrictive affirmative and negative covenants. These covenants limit our ability to, among other things: o Incur additional indebtedness; o Make capital expenditures in excess of prescribed thresholds; o Pay dividends to stockholders; o Make various investments; o Create liens on our assets; o Utilize the proceeds of asset sales; or, o Merge or consolidate or dispose of all or substantially all of our assets. We are also required to maintain specified financial ratios, including minimum cash flow coverage, minimum working capital and minimum net worth. Our lenders may utilize a portion of any excess cash flow generated by operations to prepay our term debt. A breach of any of these covenants or requirements could result in a default under our debt agreements. If we default, and if such default is not cured or waived, our lenders could, among other remedies, accelerate our debt and declare that such debt is immediately due and payable. If this occurs, we may not be able to repay such debt or borrow sufficient funds 27 to refinance. Even if new financing is available, it may not be on terms that are acceptable. Such an occurrence could cause us to cease building the Plant, or if the Plant is constructed, such an occurrence could cause us to cease operations. No assurance can be given that our future operating results will be sufficient to achieve compliance with such covenants and requirements, or in the event of a default, to remedy such default. The common stock may be diluted in value and will be subject to further dilution in value. We issued a total of 765,000 shares of common stock to our founders and to seed capital investors in a private offering. Initially, 550,000 shares of common stock were sold to our two founding stockholders at $0.25 per share. We then issued an additional 215,000 shares were sold to seed capital investors at a price of $2.50 per share. We then issued 3,445,990 shares of common stock at $10 per share, which included warrants exercisable for approximately 861,498 shares of common stock for aggregate consideration of approximately $25,844,940 in our public offering that closed in November 2005. Soon thereafter we issued an additional 5,000 shares to a director of our Company for services rendered, and an additional 5,000 shares were issued in January 2006, to the engineering firm that designed the rail layout for our plant for services rendered. If for any reason we are required in the future to raise additional equity capital, if options of any kind or additional shares were issued to our officers and directors, or to other members of our management or employees, our current shareholders may suffer further dilution to their investment. There is no assurance that further dilution will not occur in the future. Risks Related to the Company We have no operating history and our management has no material experience in the ethanol industry. We were recently formed and have no history of operations. Our proposed operations are subject to all the risks inherent in the establishment of a new business enterprise. Other than our general manager, no one else in the Company's management has any material experience in the ethanol industry. There is no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to build and operate the Plant. Even if we successfully meet all of these objectives and begin operations at the Plant, there is no assurance that we will be able to market the ethanol produced or operate the Plant profitably. We may not be able to manage our start-up period effectively. We anticipate a period of significant growth, involving the construction and start-up of operations of the Plant and the hiring of our employees. This period of growth and the start-up of the Plant are likely to be a substantial challenge to us. We have limited financial and human resources. We will need to implement operational, financial and management systems and to recruit, train, motivate and manage our employees. We operate in an area of low unemployment. Though we believe that we can manage start-up effectively and properly staff our operations, there is no assurance that this will occur, and any failure by us to manage our start-up effectively could have a material adverse effect on us, our financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and our ability to execute our business plan. If our cash flow from operations is not sufficient to service our anticipated debts, then the business may fail and investors in our stock could lose their entire investment. Our ability to repay our anticipated debt will depend on our financial and operating performance and on our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. We cannot assure anyone that we will be successful in implementing our strategy or in realizing our anticipated financial results. Our financial and operational performance depends on numerous factors including prevailing economic conditions and certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. Our cash flows and capital resources may be insufficient to repay our anticipated debt obligations. If we cannot pay our debt service, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, restructure 28 our indebtedness or seek additional capital. If we are unable to restructure our indebtedness or raise funds through sales of assets, equity or otherwise, our ability to operate could be harmed and the value of our common stock could decline significantly. The institutions lending funds to us are taking a security interest in our assets, including the property and the Plant. If we fail to make our debt financing payments, the lenders will have the right to repossess the secured assets, including the property and the Plant, in addition to other remedies. Such action would end our ability to continue operations. If we fail to make our financing payments and we cease operations, your rights as a holder of common stock are inferior to the rights of our creditors. We may not have sufficient assets to make any payments to you after we pay our creditors. It is also our intention to attempt to build other plants at other locations, to expand at the sites on which we do build, and to aggressively pursue the acquisition of existing plants. If we are successful in accomplishing our goals, we may have to borrow even greater amounts of capital to fund said growth and/or issue additional shares of our stock. This could leverage us even further and cause greater dilution to our existing shareholders. If our cash flows were to diminish for any reason and we were not able to service our debt or raise additional equity through further sales of our shares, our lenders could call our debt and the value of our shares could decline substantially and purchasers of the shares of our Company could lose their entire investment. A necessary part of our plan of operations is the receipt of significant debt funding, of which there can be no assurance. We entered into loan arrangements whereby Farm Credit Services of America, FLCA and other participating lenders have agreed to loan us up to $47,000,000. The loan agreements contain representations, warranties, conditions precedent, affirmative covenants (including financial covenants) and negative covenants. There can be no assurance that we will be or continue to be in compliance with these representations, warranties, conditions precedent, affirmative covenants (including financial covenants) and negative covenants. In the event that we are in non-compliance, then the lenders may refuse or terminate the funding of the project in which case we would not have the funding to complete construction of the Plant or commence operations. Without such funding the value of our common stock would probably decrease substantially. Our business success is dependent on unproven management. Prior to hiring Allen Sievertsen, our general manager, no one in the management of our Company had any prior experience in the ethanol business. Allen oversaw the construction of the Husker Ag plant in Plainview, NE and acted as its general manager for approximately 4.5 years, prior to joining our Company. Although Mr. Sievertsen has overseen the construction of an ethanol plant before, and has successfully managed an extremely profitable Fagen built plant, we are still presently, and likely will continue to be, heavily dependent upon our current management, who, with the exception of Mr. Sievertsen, were also the founding stockholders. We presently have only 3 employees, and our founders and initial directors will therefore be instrumental to our success. We currently have nine directors. Our two founding stockholders and initial directors live in Nevada and Utah. Since inception, seven other directors have been added to our board. Five of those directors live in Iowa, an eighth lives in Nevada, and the ninth in Utah. These individuals are experienced in business generally, and some have experience in raising capital, others in construction, as well as in governing and operating companies, but none of them have any experience in organizing, building and operating an ethanol plant. It is also possible that one or more of our founding stockholders and/or initial directors may later become unable to serve, and we may be unable to recruit and retain suitable replacements. Our dependence on our founding stockholders and initial directors may have a material adverse impact upon our operations, our cash flows and overall financial performance. 29 Our board of directors will have the exclusive right to make all decisions with respect to the management and operation of our business and our affairs. Investors will have no right to participate in the decisions of our board of directors or in the management of the Plant. Investors will only be permitted to vote in a limited number of circumstances. Accordingly, no person should purchase securities unless such person is willing to entrust all aspects of our management to the board of directors. We are presently managed by our board of directors. However, none of the directors have expertise in the ethanol industry. In addition, all members of our board of directors are presently engaged in business and other activities outside of and in addition to our business. These other activities all impose substantial demand on the time and attention of such directors. We anticipate hiring a plant manager for the Plant with experience in the ethanol industry and a production plant similar to our proposed Plant. We also intend to hire a controller that has both experience as a controller of a public company and experience with an ethanol production plant. However, there is no assurance that we will be successful in attracting or retaining such individuals because of a limited number of individuals with expertise in the area and a competitive market with many new plants being constructed. Furthermore, we may have difficulty in attracting other competent personnel to relocate to Shenandoah, Iowa, in the event that such personnel are not available locally. Our failure to attract and retain such individuals would likely have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. We have a history of losses and may never become profitable. For the period from our formation on June 29, 2004 through November 30, 2005, we incurred an accumulated net loss of $447,749. We believe we will continue to incur significant losses from this time forward until we are able to successfully complete construction and commence operations of the Plant. There is no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to build and operate an ethanol plant. Even if we successfully meet all of these objectives and begin operations at the ethanol plant, there is no assurance that we will be able to operate profitably. We will be dependent on Fagen, Inc. for expertise in the commencement of operation in the ethanol industry and any loss of this relationship could result in diminished returns or the entire loss of any investment. We are dependent on our relationship with Fagen, Inc., and its employees. Specifically, we are dependent upon the Fagen, Inc. employees Mr. Roland "Ron" Fagen, Inc. and Mr. Wayne Mitchell. Mr. Fagen, Inc. and Mr. Mitchell have considerable experience in the construction, start-up and operation of ethanol plants. Any loss of our relationship with Fagen, Inc., Mr. Fagen, or Mr. Mitchell, particularly during the construction and start-up period for the Plant, may have a material adverse impact on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. Risks Related to Construction of the Plant We will depend on key suppliers, whose failure to perform could hinder our ability to operate profitably and decrease the value of your investment. We are highly dependent upon Fagen, Inc. to design and build the Plant under our Design-Build Agreement. There are general risks and potential delays associated with such a project, including, but not limited to, fire, weather, permitting issues, and delays in the provision of materials or labor to the construction site. Any significant delay in the planned completion date may have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. It is believed that Fagen, Inc. has entered into agreements to build numerous other ethanol plants such as our proposed plant and to expand several other existing plants. There is a risk that Fagen has taken on so much work that 30 Fagen might not be able to perform in a timely manner. If this were to be the case, Fagen, Inc. may be forced to terminate some of its relationships with entities for whom Fagen, Inc. has contracted to build plants, or perhaps not be able to construct said plants within the timeframes promised. If Fagen were to terminate its relationship with us after construction was initiated, there is no assurance that we would be able to obtain a replacement general contractor. Fagen is one of the most respected builders of ethanol plants in the country and we anticipate that the Plant will be delivered as promised by Fagen. However, if Fagen were not able to deliver the Plant within the timetable promised, we could come into a situation of default with our lenders. Any such event would likely have a material adverse affect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. The Design-Build Agreement contains a liquidated damages or consequential damages provision. This would benefit us, but it could result in an early completion bonus clause for Fagen, Inc. Our payment of an early completion bonus could substantially reduce our net cash flows and financial performance during the periods of the payment of such bonus. We will depend on Fagen, Inc. for timely completion of our plant and training of personnel, but Fagen, Inc.'s involvement in other projects could delay the commencement of our operations and further delay our ability to commence operations. We believe Fagen, Inc. is negotiating and has undertaken with other parties to begin the construction of numerous other ethanol plants in 2006. If Fagen, Inc. has entered into other Design-Build contracts with liquidated damage or consequential damage clauses with other plants, there could be substantial risk to our project. For example, if Fagen, Inc. is under pressure to complete another project in order to avoid the operation of such a clause or is already operating under such a clause, Fagen, Inc. may prioritize the completion of these other plants ahead of our Plant. As a result, our ability to sell ethanol products would be delayed having a material adverse effect upon our operations, cash flows, and financial performance. It is also believed that Fagen, Inc. has investments in other projects currently under construction, as well as others that are scheduled to be built, that are substantially greater than the investment Fagen has in our project. No assurance can be given that Fagen will not commit more of its time and resources to complete such projects more quickly than ours. As a result, our ability to sell ethanol and distillers grains would be delayed having a material adverse effect upon our operations, cash flows, and financial performance. We are also highly dependent upon Fagen's experience and ability to train our personnel in operating the Plant. If the Plant is built and does not operate to the level anticipated by us in our business plan, we will rely on Fagen, Inc. to adequately address such deficiency. There is no assurance that Fagen, Inc. will be able to address such deficiency in an acceptable manner. Failure to do so could have a material adverse affect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. Construction delays could result in a delay in our commencement of operations and generation of revenue, if any. We expect that, at the earliest, it will be April or May of 2007, before we begin operation of the Plant. However, it could be at late as August under the contract we have with Fagen. Construction projects often involve delays in obtaining permits, construction delays due to weather conditions, or other events that delay the construction schedule. In addition, changes in interest rates or the credit environment or changes in political administrations at the federal, state or local level that result in policy change towards ethanol or this project, could cause construction and operation delays. If it takes longer to obtain necessary permits or construct the Plant than we anticipate, it would delay our ability to generate revenues and make it difficult for us to meet our debt service obligations. This could reduce the value of our common stock and could negatively affect our ability to execute our plan of operation. 31 If there are defects in Plant construction it may negatively affect our ability to operate the Plant. There is no assurance that defects in materials and/or workmanship in the Plant will not occur. Under the terms of the Design-Build Contract, Fagen, Inc. has warranted that the material and equipment furnished to build the Plant would be new, of good quality, and free from material defects in material or workmanship at the time of delivery. Though the Design-Build Contract requires Fagen, Inc. to correct all defects in material or workmanship for a period of one year after substantial completion of the Plant, material defects in material or workmanship may still occur. Such defects could cause us to delay the commencement of operations of the Plant, or, if such defects are discovered after operations have commenced, to halt or discontinue the Plant's operation. Any such event may have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. Any delay or unanticipated cost in providing rail service infrastructure to the Plant could significantly impede our ability to successfully operate the Plant at a profit. Rail service is not currently available in Shenandoah, Iowa. The site lies adjacent to the lines of the Burlington Northern Railroad (BNSF). However, as mentioned above, the spur on which the plant will be located has been closed by BNSF and needs to be upgraded to meet HAZMAT (Hazardous Materials) standards. Approximately 20 miles of the spur will need to be upgraded. The cost to upgrade the rail will be approximately $3.5 million. We have entered into an agreement with BNSF regarding these improvements, but there is not assurance that this work will be completed in a timely fashion. If the track is not upgraded and built in a timely fashion it could delay our ability to begin operations in the most profitable manner. We will need to construct additional track from the main line and lay more track for railcar storage at the Plant and along a portion of the spur that we are going to purchase from BNSF that will be deemed "Industrial Track" that we will be responsible to upgrade at additional cost to the Company. In order to have rail service for the Plant, a rail siding to accommodate at least 35 rail cars of approximately 5,800 feet will need to be added to the site. The estimated cost of adding such rail is approximately $1,900,000. We intend to negotiate with a third party contractor that is experienced in rail construction to provide this rail at the Plant and to upgrade the portion of the spur that we will be purchasing from BNSF. There is no assurance that an acceptable agreement will be reached with such a third party to do this, or on acceptable terms. We believe we will be able to locate such a third party and reach an acceptable agreement. However, no assurance can be given that we will be successful in doing so and failure to locate and contract with such a third party would have a material adverse effect on us, our cash flows and financial performance. Any material variations to the actual cost verses our cost estimates relating to the construction and operation of the Plant could materially and adversely affect our ability to operate the Plant profitably. It is anticipated that Fagen, Inc. will construct the Plant for a fixed contract price, based on the plans and specifications in the anticipated Design-Build Contract. We have based our capital needs on a design for the Plant that will cost $55.81 million and additional start-up and development costs of $25.26 million for a total of $81.4 million. This price includes construction period interest, construction contingencies and approximately $7 million in working capital to purchase such things as corn, enzymes, denaturant, and natural gas at start up. There is no assurance that the final cost of the Plant will not be higher. There is no assurance that there will not be design changes or cost overruns associated with the construction of the Plant. Any significant increase in the estimated construction cost of the Plant may have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. We will acquire insurance that we believe to be adequate to prevent loss from foreseeable risks. However, events occur for which no insurance is available or for which insurance is not available on terms that are acceptable to us. Loss from such an event, such as, but not limited to, earthquake, 32 tornados, war, riot, terrorism or other risks, may not be insured and such a loss may have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. Risks Related to Ethanol Production Our ability to operate at a profit is largely dependent on grain prices and ethanol and distillers dried grains prices. Our results of operations and financial condition will be significantly affected by the cost and supply of grain and by the selling price for ethanol and DDGS. Price and supply are subject to and determined by market forces over which we have no control. We will be dependent on the availability and price of corn. Although the areas surrounding the Plant produce a significant amount of corn and we do not anticipate problems sourcing corn, there is no assurance that a shortage will not develop, particularly if there were an extended drought or other production problem. In addition, our financial projections assume that we can purchase grain for approximately $2.25 per bushel. The current straight, average price for corn in the Shenandoah area is much less, approximately $1.76 per bushel. Over the past ten years, the average price for corn has been approximately $2.185 per bushel in Iowa. However, there is no assurance that we will be able to purchase corn for any of these prices. Corn prices are primarily dependent on world feedstuffs supply and demand and on U.S. and global corn crop production. These factors can be volatile because of weather, stocks prices, export prices and the government's agricultural policy. The price of corn has fluctuated significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future. We anticipate purchasing our corn from farmers in the area surrounding the Plant and in the cash market and hedging corn through futures contracts to reduce short-term exposure to price fluctuations. We intend to contract with third parties to manage our hedging activities and corn purchasing. However, we have no definitive agreements with any third party to do so at this time, nor do we have any contracts with any corn producers to provide corn to the Plant. We may also enter into supply agreements with local elevators for the origination, supply and delivery of corn to the Plant. There is no assurance that such agreements will be available or be on acceptable terms. Our purchasing and hedging activities may or may not lower our price of corn, and in a period of declining corn prices, these advance purchase and hedging strategies may result in our paying a higher price for corn than our competitors. Further, hedging for protection against the adverse changes in the price of corn may be unsuccessful, and could result in substantial losses to us. Generally, higher corn prices will produce lower profit margins. This is especially true if market conditions do not allow us to pass through increased corn costs to our customers. There is no assurance that we will be able to pass through higher corn prices. If a period of high corn prices were to be sustained for some time, such pricing may have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. Our revenues will be dependent on the market prices for ethanol and DDGS. These prices can be volatile as a result of a number of factors. These factors include the overall supply and demand, the price of gasoline, level of government support, and the availability and price of competing products. For instance, the price of ethanol tends to increase as the price of gasoline increases, and the price of ethanol tends to decrease as the price of gasoline decreases. Any lowering of gasoline prices will likely also lead to lower prices for ethanol and adversely affect our operating results Increased ethanol productions may negatively affect ethanol prices and materially reduce our ability to operation successfully. We believe that ethanol production is expanding rapidly at this time. There are a number of new plants under construction or planned for construction, both inside and outside the States of Iowa and Nebraska. We further expect existing ethanol plants to expand by increasing production. 33 We cannot provide any assurance or guarantee that there will be any material or significant increases in the demand for ethanol. Increased production of ethanol may lead to lower prices. The increased production of ethanol could have other adverse effects as well. For example, the increased production could lead to increased supplies of co-products from the production of ethanol, such as DDGS. Those increased supplies could lead to lower prices for those co-products. Also, the increased production of ethanol could result in increased demand for corn. This could result in higher prices for corn and corn production creating lower profits. There can be no assurance as to the price of ethanol or DDGS in the future. Any material adverse change affecting the price of ethanol and/or DDGS may have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. We expect to compete with existing and future ethanol plants and oil companies, which may result in diminished returns on your investment. We will operate in a very competitive environment. We will compete with large, multi-product companies that have much greater resources than we anticipate having, and plants with a capacity greater than, equal to or less than our Plant. We will face competition for capital, labor, management, corn and other resources. Many of our competitors have greater resources than we currently have or will have in the future. We anticipate that as additional ethanol plants are constructed and brought on line, the supply of ethanol will increase. The absence of increased demand may result in prices for ethanol to decrease. There is no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully or that such competition will not have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. We will also compete with producers of other gasoline additives having similar octane and oxygenate values as ethanol. An example of such other additives is MTBE, a petrochemical derived from methanol. MTBE costs less to produce than ethanol. Many major oil companies produce MTBE and because it is petroleum-based, its use is strongly supported by major oil companies. Alternative fuels, gasoline oxygenates and alternative ethanol production methods are also continually under development. The major oil companies have significantly greater resources than we have to market MTBE, to develop alternative products, and to influence legislation and public perception of MTBE and ethanol. Despite this fact, the use of MTBE may become legally restricted as a pollutant in several, and possibly, most, if not all states. California has already banned the use of MTBE as have New York and Connecticut. However, California has asked for a waiver of federal standards requiring oxygenates in reformulated gasoline in the past. This means that rather than using ethanol as an alternative oxygenate to MTBE, California sought to be released from federal requirements to use any oxygenates at all. If such requests were ever granted, whether limited to or expanded beyond California, the demand for ethanol would not increase and could diminish. Furthermore, the United States petroleum industry is pursuing a repeal of all federal oxygenated fuel requirements. These companies also have sufficient resources to begin production of ethanol should they choose to do so. Competition from these companies may have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. We are dependent on others third-party brokers or other to sell our product which may result in diminished returns. We currently have no sales force of our own to market ethanol and DDGS and do not intend to establish such a sales force. We intend to sell all of our ethanol to a third-party broker pursuant to an output contract and intend to contract with a third-party broker to market and sell our DDGS feed products. As a result, we will be dependent on the ethanol broker and the feed broker. There is no assurance that we will be able to enter into contracts with any ethanol broker or feed product broker on acceptable terms. If the ethanol broker breaches the contract or does not have the ability (for financial or other reasons) to purchase all of the ethanol we produce, we will not have any readily available means to sell our ethanol. Our lack of a sales force and reliance on third parties to sell and market our products may place us at a competitive 34 disadvantage. Our failure to sell all of our ethanol and DDGS feed products may have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. Engaging in hedging activities to minimize the potential volatility of corn prices could result in substantial costs and expenses. In an attempt to minimize the effects of the volatility of corn costs on operating profits, we will likely take hedging positions in corn futures markets and in the natural gas markets. Hedging means protecting the price at which we buy corn and the price at which we will sell our products in the future. It is a way to attempt to reduce the risk caused by price fluctuation. The effectiveness of such hedging activities is dependent upon, among other things, the cost of corn and natural gas and our ability to sell sufficient amounts of ethanol and DDGS. Although we will attempt to link hedging activities to sales plans and pricing activities, such hedging activities can themselves result in costs because price movements in corn contracts and natural gas are highly volatile and are influenced by many factors that are beyond our control. Our ability to successfully operate is dependent on the availability of energy and water at anticipated prices. The Plant will require a significant and uninterrupted supply of electricity, natural gas and water to operate. We plan to enter into agreements with local gas, electric, and water utilities to provide our needed energy and water. There can be no assurance that those utilities will be able to reliably supply the gas, electricity, and water that we need. If there is an interruption in the supply of energy or water for any reason, such as supply, delivery or mechanical problems, we may be required to halt production. If production is halted for an extended period of time, it may have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. Originally, a new gas pipeline of approximately 9 miles was going to be built to run to the Plant site. Mid American Energy was going to build this line for us at an estimated cost of approximately $3,510,000. We would be required to put up approximately $1.5 million of that cost. Since that time, US Energy Services, who has been hired as our energy consultant, and Mid American Energy have discussed this issue and have decided that sufficient gas can be supplied to the Plant simply by upgrading an existing line running from Red Oak to Shenandoah. The cost to do this will be significantly less. Therefore, we will not have to pay any of the $1.5 million dollars we had originally thought we were going to have to pay. However, no assurance can be given at this time that the pipeline can be upgraded in a timely manner. If it were not completed by the time the Plant was ready to commence operations, we could come into a state of default with our lenders, and we would not be able to commence operations in a timely manner, which would have an extremely negative effect on our cash flows and financial performance. Further, even if the pipeline were to be completed on time, at the present time we have no contracts, commitments or understandings with any natural gas supplier to supply gas to the plant. We have entered into an agreement with U.S. Energy Services, Inc. of Wayzata, Minnesota to negotiate and purchase natural gas for the plant from third party providers of natural gas for up to six months after the Plant becomes operational. However, there can be no assurance given at this time that we or U.S. Energy Services will be able to obtain a sufficient supply of natural gas or that we will be able to procure alternative sources of natural gas on acceptable terms, even with the assistance of U.S. Energy Services. In addition, natural gas prices have historically fluctuated. Presently, prices are significantly higher than the historical average price - approximately $9.16 mcf. Higher natural gas prices may have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. Therefore, we urge investors to carefully consider the significant risks involved concerning the potential of higher natural gas prices in the future in making a decision about investing in our securities. 35 We will also need to purchase significant amounts of electricity to operate the proposed Plant. We have negotiated an agreement with Mid American Energy to supply electricity to the Plant in Shenandoah for a period of five years.. We believe that our agreement with Mid American will be beneficial to the Company. However, no assurance can be given that we will be able to negotiate such favorable rates after the five year period is over. Electricity prices have historically fluctuated significantly. Sustained increases in the price of electricity would increase our cost of production. As a result, these issues may have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. Sufficient availability and quality of water are important requirements to produce ethanol. We anticipate that our water requirements to be approximately 400 to 600 gallons per minute, depending on the quality of the water. The town of Shenandoah has sufficient capacities of water to meet our needs and we have negotiated a contract with the city to supply water to the Plant at a price that we believe will be favorable to our operations. However, no assurance can be given that a prolonged drought could not diminish the water supplies in the areas of the proposed Plant, especially if we were to build the Plant in Shenandoah, or that we would continue to have sufficient water supplies in the future. Shenandoah is in the southwestern part of the State of Iowa and has a history of water shortages. Historically, this area of the State has experienced periods of drought. We are exploring the possibility of drilling wells in the area of the proposed site in Shenandoah to use as back up for the Plant. However, no assurance can be given at this time that we will be able to drill wells at the site or in another location near the site. The inability to drill such wells, and the possibility of drought, may have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance and could even cause us to cease production for periods of time. Risk of foreign competition from producers who can produce ethanol at less expensive prices than it can be produced from corn in the United States. According to information obtained from the website of the Iowa Farm Bureau, at this time, there are large international companies that have much greater resources than we have, including Cargill, developing foreign ethanol production capacity. Cargill is currently developing ethanol production capacity in El Salvador to process Brazilian ethanol for export to the U.S. Long-standing U.S. trade preferences for Caribbean and Central American countries allow them to ship ethanol to the U.S. duty-free, avoiding a 54 cent per gallon import tariff that would otherwise apply. 61 million gallons of ethanol were brought into the U.S. through the Caribbean in 2003 to avoid said tariff, most of it reprocessed Brazilian ethanol. Brazil is the world's largest ethanol producer. They make ethanol primarily from sugarcane for about half of what it costs to make ethanol from corn in Iowa. Brazil exported another 10 million gallons of ethanol directly to the U.S. in 2003, even with the full import tariff and could export even more this year. If significant additional foreign capacity is created, such facilities could produce a glut of ethanol on the world markets. Such a glut could lower the price of ethanol throughout the world, including the U.S. If this were to happen, it could have an adverse effect our operations and potential profitability. Further, if the import duty on foreign ethanol were to ever be lifted for any reason, our ability to compete with such foreign companies would be drastically reduced. Although, at this time, such risks cannot be precisely quantified, we believe that such risks exist, and could increase in the future, and anyone contemplating a purchase of the securities being offered herewith should be aware of them and consider them in making their investment decision. Risks Related to Regulation and Governmental Action The loss of favorable tax benefits for ethanol production could hinder our ability to successfully operate. Congress currently provides federal tax incentives for oxygenated fuel producers and marketers. Ethanol blended with gasoline is one of the oxygenated fuels that qualify for federal tax incentives. These tax incentives allow a lower federal excise tax rate for gasoline blended with at least 10%, 7.7%, or 5.7% ethanol. Additionally, income tax credits are available for blenders of ethanol mixtures and small ethanol producers. Gasoline marketers pay a reduced tax on gasoline sold that contains ethanol. The current credit for gasoline 36 blended with 10% ethanol is 5.4(cent) per gallon. The subsidy dropped to 5.1(cent) per gallon in 2005. Currently, a gasoline marketer that sells gas without ethanol must pay a federal tax of 18.4(cent) per gallon compared to 13(cent) per gallon for gas with 10% ethanol. The tax on gasoline blended with 10% ethanol gradually increased to 13.3(cent) per gallon in 2005. Smaller credits are available for gasoline blended with 7.7 percent and 5.7 percent ethanol. The ethanol industry and our business are dependent upon the continuation of the federal ethanol credit. This credit has supported a market for ethanol that may disappear without the credit. The federal tax incentives were scheduled to expire on September 30, 2007, but have recently been replaced by legislation which has extended those incentives to the year 2010. These tax incentives to the ethanol industry may not continue beyond their scheduled expiration date or, if they continue, the incentives may not be at the same level. The revocation or amendment of any one or more of those laws, regulations or programs could adversely affect the future use of ethanol in a material way. We cannot assure you that any of those laws, regulations or programs will continue. The elimination or reduction of federal tax incentives to the ethanol industry would have a material adverse impact on our business by making it more costly or difficult for us to produce and sell ethanol. If the federal ethanol tax incentives are eliminated or sharply curtailed, we believe that a decreased demand for ethanol will result. A change in environmental regulations or violations thereof could impede our ability to successfully operate the Plant. We will be subject to extensive air, water and other environmental regulation and we will need to obtain a number of environmental permits to construct and operate the Plant. In addition, it is likely that our senior debt financing will be contingent on our ability to obtain the various environmental permits that we will require. Assuming we build the Plant in Iowa, the Iowa Department of Natural Resources ("IDNR") may also require us to conduct an environmental assessment prior to considering any permits. Ethanol production involves the emission of various airborne pollutants, including particulate (PM10), carbon monoxide (CO), oxides of nitrogen (N0x) and volatile organic compounds. As a result, we will need to obtain an air quality permit from the IDNR. We have applied for this permit and expect that we will be granted the permit prior to the time that construction is anticipated to commence . We have also applied to the IDNR for a storm-water discharge permit, a water withdrawal permit, public water supply permit, and a water discharge permit. We anticipate obtaining these permits before the times that they will be needed during the construction process. We do not anticipate a problem receiving all required environmental permits. However, if for any reason any of these permits are not granted, construction costs for the Plant may increase, or the Plant may not be constructed at all. In addition, the IDNR could impose conditions or other restrictions in the permits that are detrimental to us or which increase costs to us above those assumed in this project. Any such event would likely have a material adverse impact on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. Even if we receive all required permits from the IDNR, we may also be subject to regulations on emissions from the Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA"). Currently the EPA's statutes and rules do not require us to obtain separate EPA approval in connection with construction and operation of the proposed Plant. Additionally, environmental laws and regulations, both at the federal and state level, are subject to change and changes can be made retroactively. Consequently, even if we have the proper permits at the present time, we may be required to invest or spend considerable resources to comply with future environmental regulations. If any of these events were to occur, they may have a material adverse impact on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. Our inability to obtain required regulatory permits and/or approvals will impede our ability and may prohibit completely our ability to successfully operate the Plant. 37 We also intend to apply for and receive from the IDNR a storm-water discharge permit, a water withdrawal permit, public water supply permit, and possibly a waste water discharge permit, but at this time we do not believe we will be required to apply for the later permit if we build the Plant in Shenandoah. The majority of these permits have now been applied for, and we anticipate that we will be able to successfully obtain all of the necessary permits prior to the commencement of construction. We do not anticipate a problem receiving all required environmental permits. However, if for any reason any of these permits are not granted, construction costs for the plant may increase, or the plant may not be constructed at all. In addition, the IDNR could impose conditions or other restrictions in the permits that are detrimental to us or which increase costs to us above those assumed in this project. The IDNR and the EPA could also change their interpretation of applicable permit requirements or the testing protocols and methods necessary to obtain a permit either before, during or after the permitting process. The IDNR and the EPA could also modify the requirements for obtaining a permit. Any such event would likely have a material adverse impact on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. Even if we receive all required permits from the IDNR, we may also be subject to regulations on emissions from the United States Environmental Protection Agency, "EPA". Currently the EPA's statutes and rules do not require us to obtain separate EPA approval in connection with construction and operation of the proposed Plant. Additionally, environmental laws and regulations, both at the federal and state level, are subject to change and changes can be made retroactively. Consequently, even if we have the proper permits at the present time, we may be required to invest or spend considerable resources to comply with future environmental regulations or new or modified interpretations of those regulations, to the detriment of our financial performance. Federal government laws that require the use of oxygenated gasoline encourage ethanol production and use. Ethanol contains 35% oxygen by weight. When combined with gasoline, ethanol acts as an oxygenate. As a result, the gasoline burns cleaner, and releases less carbon monoxide and other exhaust emissions into the atmosphere. The federal government encourages the use of oxygenated gasoline as a measure to protect the environment. Oxygenated gasoline is commonly referred to as reformulated gasoline or "RFG." The government's regulation of the environment changes constantly. It is possible that more stringent federal or state environmental rules or regulations could be adopted, which could increase our operating costs and expenses. It also is possible that federal or state environmental rules or regulations could be adopted that could have an adverse effect on the use of ethanol. For example, changes in the environmental regulations regarding the required oxygen content of automobile emissions could have an adverse effect on the ethanol industry. Furthermore, Plant operations likely will be governed by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA). OSHA regulations may change such that the costs of the operation of the Plant may increase. Any of these regulatory factors may result in higher costs or other materially adverse conditions effecting our operations, cash flows and financial performance. Risks Related to Conflicts of Interest We have conflicts of interest with Fagen, Inc. which could result in loss of capital and reduced financial performance. As discussed above, we expect that our directors will be advised by one or more employees or associates of Fagen, Inc. Fagen, Inc. is expected to continue to be involved in substantially all material aspects of our formation and operations. Consequently, the terms and conditions of our agreements and understandings with Fagen have not been negotiated at arm's length. Therefore, there is no assurance that our arrangements with such parties are as favorable to us as could have been if obtained from unaffiliated third parties. In addition, because of the extensive role that Fagen, Inc. is expected to have in the construction and operation of the Plant, it may be difficult or impossible 38 for us to enforce claims that we may have against Fagen, Inc. If this were to occur, it may have a material adverse impact on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. Fagen, Inc. and its affiliates may also have conflicts of interest because employees or agents of Fagen, Inc. are involved as owners, creditors and in other capacities with other ethanol plants in the United States. We cannot require Fagen, Inc. to devote its full time or attention to our activities. As a result, Fagen, Inc. may have or come to have a conflict of interest in allocating personnel, materials and other resources to our Plant. Though we will attempt to address actual or potential material conflicts of interest as they arise or become known, we have not established any formal procedures to address or resolve conflicts of interest. There is no assurance that any conflict of interest will not have adverse consequences to our operations, cash flows and financial performance. Unidentified Risks The foregoing discussion is not a complete list or explanation of the risks involved with an investment in this business. Additional risks will likely be experienced that are not presently foreseen by us. Investors are not to construe this report as constituting legal or tax advice. Before making any decision to invest in us, investors should read this entire report, including all of its exhibits, and consult with their own investment, legal, tax and other professional advisors. An investor should be aware that we will assert that the investor consented to the risks and the conflicts of interest described or inherent in this report if the investor brings a claim against us or any of our directors, officers, managers, employee, advisors, agents or representatives. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 