ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Before making an investment decision, you should consider the “Risk Factors” set forth below. The market or trading price of our securities could decline due to any of these risks. In addition, please read “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” in this filing, where we describe additional uncertainties associated with our business and the forward-looking statements included or incorporated by reference in this filing. Please note that additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business and operations. Our securities should only be purchased by persons who can afford to lose their entire investment in us. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and other information in this filing before deciding to become a holder of our securities. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business and financial results could be negatively affected to a significant extent. Risks Relating to Our Business Crude oil and natural gas prices are highly volatile in general and low prices will negatively affect our financial results. Our revenues, operating results, profitability, cash flow, future rate of growth and ability to borrow funds or obtain additional capital, as well as the carrying value of our oil and gas properties, are substantially dependent upon prevailing prices of crude oil and natural gas. Lower crude oil and natural gas prices also may reduce the amount of crude oil and natural gas that we can produce economically. Historically, the markets for crude oil and natural gas have been very volatile, and such markets are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. Prices for crude oil and natural gas are subject to wide fluctuation in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for crude oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, including: worldwide and domestic supplies of crude oil and natural gas; the level of consumer product demand; weather conditions and natural disasters; domestic and foreign governmental regulations; the price and availability of alternative fuels; political instability or armed conflict in oil producing regions; the price and level of foreign imports; and overall domestic and global economic conditions. It is extremely difficult to predict future crude oil and natural gas price movements with any certainty. Declines in crude oil and natural gas prices may materially adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity, ability to finance planned capital expenditures and results of operations. Further, oil and gas prices do not move in tandem. We have a limited operating history, and we may not be able to operate profitably in the near future, if at all. We have a limited operating history and businesses such as ours, which are starting up or in their initial stages of development, present substantial business and financial risks and may suffer significant losses from which we cannot recover. We will face all of the challenges of a new business enterprise, including but not limited to, locating and successfully developing oil and gas properties, locating suitable office space, engaging the services of qualified support personnel and consultants, establishing budgets and implementing appropriate financial controls and internal operating policies and procedures. We will need to attract and retain a number of key employees and other service personnel. -8- We have limited operating capital. While we believe that we have sufficient cash on hand and cash flow from operations to fund recurring production operating expenses and general and administrative requirements, over the longer term we may not. The amount of capital available to us is limited, and may not be sufficient to enable us to fully execute our capital expenditure program and growth initiatives without additional funding sources. Additional financing may also be required to achieve our objectives and provide working capital for organizational infrastructure developments necessary to achieve our growth plans and reach a level of oil and gas operating activities that allows us to take advantage of certain economies of scale inherent to our business which would provide us the ability to reduce costs on a per unit of production basis. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such financing on attractive terms, if at all. We have no firm commitments for additional cash funding other than the amount we may receive in connection with the exercise of the Series C Warrants (as described below under “The outstanding Series C Warrants are only required to be exercised and the Company can only force the exercise of such warrants if certain conditions provided in such warrants are met”). We may not be able to operate profitably in the near future, if at all. We will face all of the challenges of a smaller microcap oil and natural gas company that operates in a highly competitive industry, including but not limited to: locating, acquiring and successfully developing oil and gas properties; raising financing to fund our capital expenditure program; attracting, engaging and retaining the services of qualified management, technical and support personnel; establishing budgets and maintaining internal operating policies and procedures; and the design and implementation of effective financial and disclosure controls to meet public company statutory compliance requirements. We can provide no assurance that we will achieve a level of profitability that will provide a return on invested capital or that will result in an increase in the market value of our securities. Accordingly, we are subject to the risk that, because of these factors and other general business risks noted throughout these “Risk Factors,” we may, in particular, not be able to profitably execute our plan of operation. We require financing to execute our business plan and fund capital program requirements. We believe that our current cash reserves, together with anticipated cash flow from operations, will be sufficient to meet our working capital and operating needs for approximately the next twelve months. However, to continue growth and to fund our business and expansion plans, we will require additional financing. The amount of capital available to us is limited, and may not be sufficient to enable us to fully execute our growth plans without additional fund raising. Additional financing may be required to meet our desired growth and strategic objectives and to provide more working capital for expanding our development and marketing capabilities and to achieve our ultimate plan of expansion and a larger scale of operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such financing on attractive terms, if at all. We have no firm commitments for additional cash funding as of the date of this report. We do not intend to pay dividends to our shareholders. We do not currently intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying any dividends at any time in the foreseeable future. At present, we will follow a policy of retaining all of our earnings, if any, to finance development and expansion of our business. Our officers and directors have limited liability, and we are required in certain instances to indemnify our officers and directors for breaches of their fiduciary duties. -9- We have adopted provisions in our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws which limit the liability of our officers and directors and provide for indemnification by us of our officers and directors to the full extent permitted by Nevada corporate law. Our articles generally provide that our officers and directors shall have no personal liability to us or our shareholders for monetary damages for breaches of their fiduciary duties as directors, except for breaches of their duties of loyalty, acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or knowing violation of law, acts involving unlawful payment of dividends or unlawful stock purchases or redemptions, or any transaction from which a director derives an improper personal benefit. Such provisions substantially limit our shareholders' ability to hold officers and directors liable for breaches of fiduciary duty, and may require us to indemnify our officers and directors. We face intense competition. We are in direct competition for properties with numerous oil and natural gas companies, drilling and income programs and partnerships exploring various areas of Texas and elsewhere. Many competitors are large, well-known oil and gas and/or energy companies, although no single entity dominates the industry. Many of our competitors possess greater financial and personnel resources enabling them to identify and acquire more economically desirable energy producing properties and drilling prospects than us. Additionally, there is competition from other fuel choices to supply the energy needs of consumers and industry. Management believes that a viable market place exists for smaller producers of natural gas and crude oil. We depend significantly upon the continued involvement of our present management. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the involvement of our management, who are in charge of our strategic planning and operations. We may need to attract and retain additional talented individuals in order to carry out our business objectives. The competition for such persons could be intense and there are no assurances that these individuals will be available to us. Our business is subject to extensive regulation. As many of our activities are subject to federal, state and local regulation, and as these rules are subject to constant change or amendment, there can be no assurance that our operations will not be adversely affected by new or different government regulations, laws or court decisions applicable to our operations. Government regulation and liability for environmental matters may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Crude oil and natural gas operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local government regulations, which may be changed from time to time. Matters subject to regulation include discharge permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds, reports concerning operations, the spacing of wells, unitization and pooling of properties and taxation. From time to time, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on production by restricting the rate of flow of crude oil and natural gas wells below actual production capacity in order to conserve supplies of crude oil and natural gas. There are federal, state and local laws and regulations primarily relating to protection of human health and the environment applicable to the development, production, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of crude oil and natural gas, byproducts thereof and other substances and materials produced or used in connection with crude oil and natural gas operations. In addition, we may inherit liability for environmental damages caused by previous owners of property we purchase or lease. As a result, we may incur substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities. The implementation of new, or the modification of existing, laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on us. -10- Future increases on taxes on energy products, energy service companies and exploration activities may adversely affect our results of operations and increase our operating expenses. Federal, state and local governments have jurisdiction in areas where the Company operates and impose taxes on the oil and natural gas products sold by the Company. Recently there have been discussions by federal, state and local officials concerning a variety of energy tax proposals, some of which, if passed, would add or increase taxes on energy products, service companies and exploration activities. Such matters are beyond the Company's ability to accurately predict or control; however, any such increase in taxes or additional taxes levied on the Company by federal, state or local jurisdictions could adversely affect our results of operations and/or increase our operating expenses. Certain U.S. federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. The current administration has proposed legislation that would, if enacted into law, make significant changes to United States tax laws, including the elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. These proposed changes include, but are not limited to: (1) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties, (2) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, (3) the elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities, and (4) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear whether any such changes will be enacted into law or how soon any such changes could become effective in the event they were enacted into law. The passage of any legislation as a result of these proposals or any other changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could eliminate certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development activities undertaken by the Company, and any such changes could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. The crude oil and natural gas reserves we report in our SEC filings are estimates and may prove to be inaccurate. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating crude oil and natural gas reserves and their estimated values. The reserves we will report in our filings with the SEC will only be estimates and such estimates may prove to be inaccurate because of these uncertainties. Reservoir engineering is a subjective and inexact process of estimating underground accumulations of crude oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. Estimates of economically recoverable crude oil and natural gas reserves depend upon a number of variable factors, such as historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas and assumptions concerning effects of regulations by governmental agencies, future crude oil and natural gas prices, future operating costs, severance and excise taxes, development costs and work-over and remedial costs. Some or all of these assumptions may in fact vary considerably from actual results. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of crude oil and natural gas attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of such reserves based on risk of recovery, and estimates of the future net cash flows expected therefrom prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers but at different times may vary substantially. Accordingly, reserve estimates may be subject to downward or upward adjustment. Actual production, revenue and expenditures with respect to our reserves will likely vary from estimates, and such variances may be material. The SEC has historically prohibited us from including “probable reserves” and “possible reserves” in statutory public filings; however, in addition to permitting us to disclose proved reserve estimates, effective January 1, 2010, the SEC allows us to report “probable” and “possible” reserves realizing that both reserve categories are considered unproved reserves and as such, the SEC views the estimates to be inherently -11- unreliable. Probable and possible reserve estimates may be misunderstood or seen as misleading to investors that are not “experts” in the oil or natural gas industry. Unless you have such expertise, you should not place undue reliance on these estimates. Except as required by applicable law, we undertake no duty to update this information and do not intend to update this information. Crude oil and natural gas development, re-completion of wells from one reservoir to another reservoir, restoring wells to production and drilling and completing new wells are speculative activities and involve numerous risks and substantial and uncertain costs. Our growth will be materially dependent upon the success of our future development program. Drilling for crude oil and natural gas and reworking existing wells involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive crude oil or natural gas reservoirs will be encountered. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is substantial and uncertain, and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or cancelled as a result of a variety of factors beyond our control, including: unexpected drilling conditions; pressure or irregularities in formations; equipment failures or accidents; inability to obtain leases on economic terms, where applicable; adverse weather conditions and natural disasters; compliance with governmental requirements; and shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs or crews and the delivery of equipment. Drilling or reworking is a highly speculative activity. Even when fully and correctly utilized, modern well completion techniques such as hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling do not guarantee that we will find crude oil and/or natural gas in our wells. Hydraulic fracturing involves pumping a fluid with or without particulates into a formation at high pressure, thereby creating fractures in the rock and leaving the particulates in the fractures to ensure that the fractures remain open, thereby potentially increasing the ability of the reservoir to produce oil or gas. Horizontal drilling involves drilling horizontally out from an existing vertical well bore, thereby potentially increasing the area and reach of the well bore that is in contact with the reservoir. Our future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, such failure would have an adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. We cannot assure you that our overall drilling success rate or our drilling success rate for activities within a particular geographic area will not decline. We may identify and develop prospects through a number of methods, some of which do not include lateral drilling or hydraulic fracturing, and some of which may be unproven. The drilling and results for these prospects may be particularly uncertain. Our drilling schedule may vary from our capital budget. The final determination with respect to the drilling of any scheduled or budgeted prospects will be dependent on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: the results of previous development efforts and the acquisition, review and analysis of data; the availability of sufficient capital resources to us and the other participants, if any, for the drilling of the prospects; the approval of the prospects by other participants, if any, after additional data has been compiled; economic and industry conditions at the time of drilling, including prevailing and anticipated prices for crude oil and natural gas and the availability of drilling rigs and crews; our financial resources and results; the availability of leases and permits on reasonable terms for the prospects; and the success of our drilling technology. We cannot assure you that these projects can be successfully developed or that the wells discussed will, if drilled, encounter reservoirs of commercially productive crude oil or natural gas. There are numerous uncertainties in estimating quantities of proved reserves, including many factors beyond our control. Because of the speculative nature of oil and gas exploration and development, there is substantial risk that we will not find any commercially exploitable oil or gas and that our business will fail. The search for commercial quantities of oil as a business is extremely risky. We cannot provide investors with any assurance that we will be able to obtain rights to additional producing properties in the future and/or that any properties we obtain rights to will contain commercially exploitable quantities of oil -12- and/or gas. Future exploration and development expenditures made by us, if any, may not result in the discovery of commercial quantities of oil and/or gas in any future properties we may acquire the rights to, and problems such as unusual or unexpected formations and other conditions involved in oil and gas exploration often result in unsuccessful exploration efforts. If we are unable to find commercially exploitable quantities of oil and gas in any properties we may acquire in the future, and/or we are unable to commercially extract such quantities we may find in any properties we may acquire in the future, the value of our securities may decline in value. Because of the inherent dangers involved in oil and gas exploration, there is a risk that we may incur liability or damages as we conduct our business operations, which could force us to expend a substantial amount of money in connection with litigation and/or a settlement. The oil and natural gas business involves a variety of operating hazards and risks such as well blowouts, pipe failures, casing collapse, explosions, uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids, fires, spills, pollution, releases of toxic gas and other environmental hazards and risks. These hazards and risks could result in substantial losses to us from, among other things, injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution or other environmental damage, cleanup responsibilities, regulatory investigation and penalties and suspension of operations. In addition, we may be liable for environmental damages caused by previous owners of property purchased and leased by us in the future. As a result, substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities may be incurred, the payment of which could reduce or eliminate the funds available for the purchase of properties and/or property interests, exploration, development or acquisitions or result in the loss of our properties and/or force us to expend substantial monies in connection with litigation or settlements. As such, there can be no assurance that any insurance we currently maintain or that we obtain in the future will be adequate to cover any losses or liabilities. We cannot predict the availability of insurance or the availability of insurance at premium levels that justify our purchase. The occurrence of a significant event not fully insured or indemnified against could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operations. We may elect to self-insure if management believes that the cost of insurance, although available, is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. The occurrence of an event not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, which could lead to any investment in us declining in value or becoming worthless. Risks Relating to Our Outstanding Securities We may continue to have potential liability pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Agreement, even though our recently filed Form S-3 Registration Statement was declared effective. We recently filed a Form S-3 resale Registration Statement to register the 4,230,589 unregistered shares of common stock (the Shares To Be Registered and the Registration Statement) issuable upon exercise of the respective associated warrants (the Associated Warrants) to remedy the fact that these shares of common stock were not previously registered or exempt from registration under the federal securities laws and to reduce our potential liability under the Purchase Agreement. The Form S-3 Registration Statement was subsequently declared effective by the SEC; however, as a result of the fact that the Shelf Registration (as defined in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations) did not have sufficient capacity to cover and register the entire amount of shares of common stock issuable in connection with the Units sold in the Offering (i.e., only the shares of common stock sold in connection with the Units and a portion of the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the Warrants were registered under the Shelf Registration, as described above), we may face claims for alleged damages in the future pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Agreement and the -13- Investors may seek to claim damages in the future against us for any alleged damages they may have suffered as a result of the above. We may continue to have liability for the grant of the Warrants and as a result, the sale of the Units in violation of federal and state securities law, even though our resale Registration Statement was declared effective. After the Closing Date of the Offering, we determined that we did not have an exemption from registration available under the federal or state securities laws for the offer and sale of the Shares To Be Registered and the Associated Warrants and they were not registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to the Prospectus Supplement at time of the Offering. We subsequently filed and gained effectiveness of a Form S-3 resale Registration Statement to register the resale of the Shares To Be Registered to remedy the fact that, upon issuance, the shares of common stock issuable in connection with the exercise of the Associated Warrants will not have been previously registered or exempt from registration. However, we cannot remedy the fact that the Associated Warrants were originally granted improperly in December 2010. As such, the Investors and the Placement Agent may have continuing rescission rights under the federal and state securities laws in connection with the grant of the Associated Warrants (and possibly the entire Offering, including the sale of the Units, the shares and Shelf Registered Warrants included therewith) and we may face liability in connection with such ongoing rescission rights. The Resale Registration Statement will not bar claims relating to our non-compliance with securities laws, and we may continue to be contingently liable for damages in an indeterminate amount. The declaration of the effectiveness of the recently filed Form S-3 resale Registration Statement by the Commission will not bar claims relating to our non-compliance with applicable federal or state securities laws. Additionally, even after the effectiveness of the Registration Statement, the actions we have taken to remedy our non-compliance with securities laws in connection with the offer and sale of the Associated Warrants will not prevent regulators from pursuing enforcement actions or imposing penalties and fines against us with respect to any violations of securities laws. We may be subject to liability, face claims for damages and be forced to expend our resources in the event the Investors bring action against us in the future. As described in the Risk Factors above, we may have liability to the Investors or the placement agent in connection with our failure to keep effective the registration of the Shares To Be Registered and the Associated Warrants, as well as potential liability for breaches of the Purchase Agreement, as it relates to the Investors. In the event the Investors or the placement agent bring an action against us in connection with any of the above risks, we could be forced to expend significant funds in the defense of such action, could be forced to pay significant damages to the Investors in connection with such potential claims, and our management could be forced to expend a significant amount of their time in connection with such claims, instead of on our operations. Any of the above could have a material adverse effect on our operations and results of operations, and could force us to expend or pay significant amounts of money in the future. If stockholders sell a large number of shares registered on our previously filed Registration Statements, all at once or in blocks, the trading value of our shares could decline in value. We registered 2,510,506 shares of common stock and an additional 941,053 shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of outstanding Series C Warrants in connection with the filing of our Prospectus Supplement No. 2 to our Form S-3 Registration Statement in December 2010. Additionally, pursuant to a resale Registration Statement, we registered an aggregate of 4,230,589 shares of common stock, which -14- number includes all of the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the Series B Warrants and the Series C Warrants, not previously registered in the December 2010 Prospectus Supplement to the Form S-3 Registration Statement. We only have 16,835,813 shares of common stock outstanding as of June 15, 2011. As a result, the offer or sale of large numbers of shares in the future, including those shares registered in our Form S-3 Prospectus Supplement and the resale Registration Statement may cause the market price of our securities to decline in value. The amount of common stock registered on behalf of the selling stockholders in the Registration Statements and which are eligible for immediate resale upon the exercise of the Warrants (including those registered in the Prospectus Supplement) and Agent Warrant, pursuant to their terms, would represent approximately 23.5% of our outstanding shares of common stock assuming the full exercise of all such warrants. Nevada law and our Articles of Incorporation authorize us to issue shares of stock, which shares may cause substantial dilution to our existing shareholders. We have authorized capital stock consisting of 100,000,000 shares of common stock, $0.001 par value per share and 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, $0.001 par value per share. As of June 15, 2011, we have 16,835,813 shares of common stock outstanding and no shares of preferred stock issued and outstanding. As a result, our Board of Directors has the ability to issue a large number of additional shares of common stock without shareholder approval, subject to the requirements of the NYSE Amex Equities (which generally require shareholder approval for any transactions which would result in the issuance of more than 20% of our then outstanding shares of common stock or voting rights representing over 20% of our then outstanding shares of stock), which if issued could cause substantial dilution to our then shareholders. Additionally, shares of preferred stock may be issued by our Board of Directors without shareholder approval, with voting powers and such preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights and powers as determined by our Board of Directors, which may be greater than the shares of common stock currently outstanding. As a result, shares of preferred stock may be issued by our Board of Directors which cause the holders to have majority voting power over our shares, provide the holders of the preferred stock the right to convert the shares of preferred stock they hold into shares of our common stock, which may cause substantial dilution to our then common stock shareholders and/or have other rights and preferences greater than those of our common stock shareholders. Investors should keep in mind that the Board of Directors has the authority to issue additional shares of common stock and preferred stock, which could cause substantial dilution to our existing shareholders. Additionally, the dilutive effect of any preferred stock which we may issue may be exacerbated given the fact that such preferred stock may have super voting rights and/or other rights or preferences which could provide the preferred shareholders with substantial voting control over us subsequent to this filing and/or give those holders the power to prevent or cause a change in control. As a result, the issuance of shares of common stock and/or Preferred Stock may cause the value of our securities to decrease and/or become worthless. The outstanding Series C Warrants are only required to be exercised, and the Company can only force the exercise of such warrants, if certain conditions provided in such warrants are met. Each Series C Warrant has an exercise price of $2.62 per share. The Series C Warrants are exercisable for the 10 trading day period ending on August 3, 2011, provided that the Company has the right to force the holders of the Series C Warrants to exercise the Series C Warrants if (a) the volume weighted average price (VWAP) of the Company's common stock on the NYSE Amex Equities exceeds $3.28 during the 11th through the 20th trading days immediately prior to the 216th day following the Closing Date; or (b) if on the 216th day following the Closing Date, the exercise price of $2.62 per share is less than the lower of (x) the VWAP for the ten days immediately preceding such date, and (y) the closing bid price on such date, subject in each case to the Company meeting certain requirements and maintaining certain conditions as set forth in such Series C Warrant. The Series C Warrants expire automatically if not exercised by the 216th day following the Closing Date (unless such date falls on a holiday or weekend, in which case the next non- -15- holiday or weekend date). The Series C Warrants also include a provision whereby the holders thereof are not eligible to exercise any portion of the warrants that would result in them becoming a beneficial owner of more than 9.99% of the Company's common stock. As such, the Company will not receive the $6,577,525 due to the Company in connection with the exercise of the Series C Warrants if the conditions set forth above and described in greater detail in the Series C Warrants are not met, which require among other things, the trading price of the Company’s common stock exceeding $3.28. Furthermore, the Series B Warrants and Agent Warrants, which are exercisable at the option of the holders thereof and do not contain forced exercise provisions like the Series C Warrants, have exercise prices of $2.86 and $2.98, respectively, and will not be exercised by the holders thereof, and the Company will not receive any consideration in connection therewith, unless the trading price of the Company’s common stock exceeds such exercise prices, and subject to such holder’s option to exercise such warrants. Additionally, the Series B Warrants, the Series C Warrants, and the warrants granted to the Company’s placement agent, cannot be exercised unless there is a valid and effective registration statement covering the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise thereof on file with the SEC. In the event our previously filed Shelf Registration Statement, or the resale Registration Statement, are deemed ineffective and we are unable to rely on such Registration Statements for the issuance of the shares of common stock issuable in connection with the exercise of the warrants or any other securities, or any other issues arise which prevent the holders thereof from validly exercising their rights under such warrants, we will not receive any additional funds in connection with such securities, even assuming the trading price of the Company’s common stock exceeds the exercise price of the warrants, and the holders thereof desire to exercise such warrants. The Investors in the Company’s December 2010 sale of 2,510,506 units obtained a right of first refusal to provide additional funding to the Company. Pursuant to the Securities Purchase Agreement (the Purchase Agreement), pursuant to which certain investors purchased an aggregate of 2,510,506 units in December 2010, the Company agreed that, until the first anniversary of the Closing Date (which date was December 30, 2010), the Company would not undertake any of the following, without the prior written consent of all of the investors (the Investors) (as described in greater detail in the Purchase Agreement): (A), directly or indirectly, file any registration statement with the SEC, (B) directly or indirectly, offer, sell, grant any option to purchase, or otherwise dispose of (or announce any offer, sale, grant or any option to purchase or other disposition of) any of its equity securities, including without limitation any debt, preferred stock or other instrument or security (a Subsequent Placement), or (C) be party to any solicitations or negotiations with regard to the foregoing. Additionally, the Company agreed that until the second anniversary of the Closing Date, the Company would not, directly or indirectly, effect any Subsequent Placement unless the Company first provides the Investors notice of such Subsequent Placement and provides such Investors an opportunity to purchase up to 25% of the securities offered in such Subsequent Placement pursuant to the terms and conditions described in greater detail in the Purchase Agreement. However, the above requirements do not apply to the Company's issuance or grant of any common stock issued or issuable: (i) in connection with any employee benefit plan approved by the Board of Directors, subject to a maximum of 150,000 shares to be issued to consultants in any calendar year; (ii) upon exercise of the Warrants and Agent Warrants; (iii) upon exercise of any options or convertible securities which were outstanding on the day immediately preceding the Closing Date; and (iv) in connection with mergers, acquisitions, strategic business transactions or joint ventures with a strategic partner who is not in the business of making financial investments, in each case with non-affiliated third parties and otherwise on an arm's-length basis, the primary purpose of which is not to raise additional capital (collectively (i) through (iv), Excluded Securities); provided that any shares issued or issuable in connection with any transaction contemplated by this clause (iv) that is either primarily (A) attributable to capital raising for the Company -16- (other than nominal amounts of capital) or (B) to raise capital for the Company, directly or indirectly, in connection with any transaction contemplated by this clause (iv), including, without limitation, securities issued in one or more related transactions or that result in similar economic consequences, shall not be deemed to be Excluded Securities. As a result of the above, it may be harder for the Company to raise funding and/or issue securities in consideration for certain business purposes not included in the Excluded Securities, described above, which could prevent the Company from meeting its capital needs, limit the Company’s ability to grow its operations and implement its business plan and ultimately cause the value of the Company’s securities to decline in value. Shareholders may be diluted significantly through our efforts to obtain financing and/or satisfy obligations through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock. We currently have no committed source of financing (other than pursuant to Series C Warrants, which are required to be exercised assuming certain requirements therein (as described in greater detail above) are met. Wherever possible, our Board of Directors will attempt to use non-cash consideration to satisfy obligations. In many instances, we believe that the non-cash consideration will consist of restricted shares of our common stock. Our Board of Directors has authority, without action or vote of the shareholders, to issue all or part of the authorized but unissued shares of common stock (subject to NYSE Amex Equities rules which limit among other things, the number of shares we can issue without shareholder approval to no more than 20% of our outstanding shares of common stock). These actions will result in dilution of the ownership interests of existing shareholders, and that dilution may be material. If persons engage in short sales of our common stock, including sales of shares to be issued upon exercise of our outstanding warrants, the price of our common stock may decline. Selling short is a technique used by a stockholder to take advantage of an anticipated decline in the price of a security. In addition, holders of options and warrants will sometimes sell short knowing they can, in effect, cover through the exercise of an option or warrant, thus locking in a profit. A significant number of short sales or a large volume of other sales within a relatively short period of time can create downward pressure on the market price of a security. Further sales of common stock issued upon exercise of our outstanding warrants could cause even greater declines in the price of our common stock due to the number of additional shares available in the market upon such exercise, which could encourage short sales that could further undermine the value of our common stock. You could, therefore, experience a decline in the value of your investment as a result of short sales of our common stock. Risks Related To Share Ownership The market price for our common stock may be volatile, and you may not be able to sell our stock at a favorable price or at all. Many factors could cause the market price of our common stock to rise and fall, including: actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly results of operations; changes in market valuations of companies in our industry; changes in expectations of future financial performance; fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes; issuances of dilutive common stock or other securities in the future; the addition or departure of key personnel; announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances; and the increase or decline in the price of oil and natural gas. It is possible that the proceeds from sales of our common stock may not equal or exceed the prices you paid for it plus the costs and fees of making the sales. -17- Substantial sales of our common stock, or the perception that such sales might occur, could depress the market price of our common stock. We cannot predict whether future issuances of our common stock or resales in the open market will decrease the market price of our common stock. The impact of any such issuances or resales of our common stock on our market price may be increased as a result of the fact that our common stock is thinly, or infrequently, traded. The exercise of any options or the vesting of any restricted stock that we may grant to directors, executive officers and other employees in the future, the issuance of common stock in connection with acquisitions and other issuances of our common stock (including the sale of shares registered in the Registration Statements and/or pursuant to previous Registration Statements filed by the Company) could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, future issuances of our common stock may be dilutive to existing shareholders. Any sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales might occur, could lower the market price of our common stock. 