Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves substantial risks and the investment is suitable only for persons with the financial capability to make and hold long-term investments not readily converted into cash. Investors must, therefore, have adequate means of providing for their current and future needs and personal contingencies. Prospective purchasers of our securities should carefully consider the Risk Factors set forth below, as well as the other information appearing in this report, before making any investment in our securities. Investors should understand that there is a possibility that they could loose their entire investment in the Company. Risks Related to the Common Stock We plan to construct our Plants by means of substantial leverage of equity, resulting in substantial debt service requirements that could reduce the value of the stock of the Company. We raised gross proceeds of $34,459,900 in our public offering. Those funds have been used to build our first Plant in Shenandoah, Iowa, and as of November 30, 2006, we have spent all of our equity committed to the construction of the Shenandoah Plant and have commenced to draw down on our credit facilities. Upon completion of the Plant in Shenandoah, we anticipate that our total term debt obligations will be approximately $47 million. In July 2006, we raised approximately $48 million in gross offering proceeds ($46.8 million net of offering costs) in a second public offering of our common stock. These funds are being used to build our second Plant in Superior, Iowa. We have received a Commitment Letter from our proposed lenders and anticipate that we will close on the final loan documents in the near future for approximately $51.6 million. We believe with the equity raised in our second public offering and the loans from our lenders that we will have sufficient funds to complete the Superior Plant. As a result, our capital structure will be highly leveraged. Our debt load and service requirements could have important consequences which could reduce the value our common stock, including: • Limiting our ability to borrow additional amounts for operating capital and other purposes or creating a situation in which such ability to borrow may be available on terms that are not favorable to us; • Reducing funds available for operations and distributions because a substantial portion of our cash flow will be used to pay interest and principal on our debt; • Making us vulnerable to increases in prevailing interest rates; • Placing us at a competitive disadvantage because we may be substantially more leveraged than some of our competitors; • Subjecting all, or substantially all of our assets to liens, which means that there will be virtually no assets left for stockholders in the event of a liquidation; and, • Limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions, which could increase our vulnerability to a downturn in our business or general economic conditions. 30 In the event that we are unable to pay our debt service obligations, we could be forced to: (a) reduce or eliminate dividends to stockholders, if they were to commence or (b) reduce or eliminate needed capital expenditures. It is possible that we could be forced to sell assets, seek to obtain additional equity capital or refinance or restructure all or a portion of its debt. In the event that we are unable to refinance our indebtedness or raise funds through asset sales, sales of equity or otherwise, our business would be adversely affected and we may be forced to liquidate, and investors could lose their entire investment. Our common stock is thinly traded. There is currently a publicly traded market for our common stock. Our common shares trade on both the NASDAQ Capital Market and the American Stock Exchange. However, our shares are thinly traded and any investment made in our Company may be illiquid for an indefinite amount of time. Further, no assurance can be given that our shares will continue to be traded on these or any other exchange or market in the future. Our lenders require us to abide by certain restrictive loan covenants that may hinder our ability to operate and reduce our profitability. The loan agreements governing our secured debt financing contain a number of restrictive affirmative and negative covenants. These covenants limit our ability to, among other things: • Incur additional indebtedness; • Make capital expenditures in excess of prescribed thresholds; • Pay dividends to stockholders; • Make various investments; • Create liens on our assets; • Utilize the proceeds of asset sales; or, • Merge or consolidate or dispose of all or substantially all of our assets. We are also required to maintain specified financial ratios, including minimum cash flow coverage, minimum working capital and minimum net worth. Our lenders may utilize a portion of any excess cash flow generated by operations to prepay our term debt. A breach of any of these covenants or requirements could result in a default under our debt agreements. If we default, and if such default is not cured or waived, our lenders could, among other remedies, accelerate our debt and declare that such debt is immediately due and payable. If this occurs, we may not be able to repay such debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance. Even if new financing is available, it may not be on terms that are acceptable. Such an occurrence could cause us to cease building the Plants, or if the Plants are constructed, such an occurrence could cause us to cease operations. No assurance can be given that our future operating results will be sufficient to achieve compliance with such covenant s and requirements, or in the event of a default, to remedy such default. 31 The common stock may be diluted in value and will be subject to further dilution in value. We issued a total of 765,000 shares of common stock to our founders and to seed capital investors in a private offering. Initially, 550,000 shares of common stock were sold to our two founding stockholders at $0.25 per share. We then issued an additional 215,000 shares to seed capital investors at a price of $2.50 per share. We then issued 3,445,990 shares of common stock at $10 per share in our IPO that closed in November 2005. This offering included warrants exercisable for approximately 861,498 shares of common stock, which if exercised, equates to an additional consideration of approximately $25,844,940 from our IPO. Soon thereafter we issued an additional 5,000 shares to a director of our Company for services rendered, and an additional 5,000 shares were issued in January 2006, to the engineering firm that designed the rail layout for our Plant in Shenandoah for services rendered. We then issued an additional 100,000 shares to a director of the Company for o ur acquisition of Superior Ethanol, LLC. In connection with the Superior project, we issued 10,900 shares to purchase land for $478,510 related to the land for the Superior project. An additional 2,500 shares of our common stock were issued to the Shenandoah Chamber and Industry Association. During a time when our common shares were trading above the price of $30 per share, 273,108 warrants were exercised by certain of our shareholders to whom we issued an additional 68,277 shares in exchange for cash of $30 per share. We next issued 1,600,069 shares of our common stock to purchasers of our second public offering that closed on July 31, 2006. These shares were issued at a purchase price of $30.00 per share. These shares each had a warrant that can be exercised by the holders in the future. Five warrants are needed to purchase one share of our common stock at a purchase price of $60 per share. If for any reason we are required in the future to raise additional equity capital, if more warrants are exercised in the future, if options of any kind or additional shares were issued to our officers and directors, or to other members of our management or employees, our current shareholders may suffer further dilution to their investment. There is no assurance that further dilution will not occur in the future. Risks Related to the Company We have no operating history and our management has no material experience in the ethanol industry. We are a late stage development Company that was formed in June of 2004, to construct and operate ethanol plants. However, we have no history of operations as an ethanol producer. Our proposed operations are subject to all the risks inherent in the establishment of a new business enterprise. Other than our plant manager in Shenandoah, Iowa, no one else in the Company’s management has any material operational experience in the ethanol industry. There is no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to build and operate the Plants. Even if we successfully meet all of these objectives and begin operations at the two Plants we are presently constructing, there is no assurance that we will be able to market the ethanol and distillers grains produced or operate the Plants profitably. We may not be able to manage our start-up period effectively. We anticipate a period of significant growth, involving the construction and start-up of operations of our first two Plants and the hiring of our employees for the operation of these Plants. This period of growth and the start-up of the Plants are likely to be a substantial challenge to us. We have limited financial and human resources. We will need to implement operational, financial and management systems and to recruit, train, motivate and manage our employees. We will be operating in areas of low unemployment. Though we believe that we can manage start-up effectively and properly staff our operations, there is no assurance that this will occur, and any failure by us to manage our start-up effectively could have a material adverse effect on us, our financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and our ability to execute our business plan. If our cash flow from operations is not sufficient to service our anticipated debts, then the business may fail and investors in our stock could lose their entire investment. Our ability to repay our anticipated debt will depend on our financial and operating performance and on our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. We cannot assure anyone that we will be successful in implementing our strategy or in realizing our anticipated financial results. Our financial and operational performance depends on numerous factors including prevailing economic conditions and certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. Our cash flows and capital resources may be insufficient to repay our anticipated debt obligations. If we cannot pay our debt service, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, restructure our indebtedness or seek additional capital. If we are unable to restructure our indebtedness or raise funds through sales of assets, equity or otherwise, our ability to operate could be harmed and the value of our common stock could decline significantly. 32 The institutions lending funds to us are taking a security interest in our assets, including the property and the Plants. If we fail to make our debt financing payments, the lenders will have the right to repossess the secured assets, including the property and the Plants, in addition to other remedies. Such action would end our ability to continue operations. If we fail to make our financing payments and we cease operations, your rights as a holder of common stock are inferior to the rights of our creditors. We may not have sufficient assets to make any payments to you after we pay our creditors. It is also our intention to attempt to build other plants at other locations, to expand at the sites on which we do build, and to aggressively pursue the acquisition of existing plants. If we are successful in accomplishing our goals, we may have to borrow even greater amounts of capital to fund said growth and/or issue additional shares of our stock. This could leverage us even further and cause greater dilution to our existing shareholders. If our cash flows were to diminish for any reason and we were not able to service our debt or raise additional equity through further sales of our shares, our lenders could call our debt and the value of our shares could decline substantially and purchasers of the shares of our Company could lose all or part of their investment. A necessary part of our plan of operations is the receipt of significant debt funding, of which there can be no assurance. We entered into loan arrangements whereby Farm Credit Services of America, FLCA and other participating lenders have agreed to lend us up to $47,000,000. We have also received a Commitment Letter from the same lenders who have agreed to lend us up to $51.6 million for the construction of our Superior Plant. We anticipate closing on this loan in the near future. The loan agreements contain representations, warranties, conditions precedent, affirmative covenants (including financial covenants) and negative covenants. There can be no assurance that we will be or continue to be in compliance with these representations, warranties, conditions precedent, affirmative covenants (including financial covenants) and negative covenants. Further, our lenders may require us to obtain performance bonds on our builders and their subcontractors, as well as on our technology providers. If we were unable to obtain such performance bonds, our lenders may refuse to re lease the needed funding to us. If that were to happen, or in the event that we were in non-compliance in any other way, then the lenders may refuse or terminate the funding of one or both of the projects in which case we would not have the funding to complete construction of the Plants or commence operations. Without such funding the value of our common stock would probably decrease substantially. Our business success is dependent on unproven management. Prior to the formation of our Company, none of our officers and directors had any experience in the ethanol industry, with the exception of Wayne Hoovestol, our COO who is also a director of the Company. However, his experience has been limited to that of a board member and an investor in other ethanol plants. During the past two and a half years, a great deal of knowledge concerning the ethanol industry has been acquired by our officers and directors. We have hired an experienced plant manager for our Plant in Shenandoah, who has significant experience in the operations of ethanol plants. Therefore, even though none of our founders or directors has prior operational experience in the ethanol business, we believe we have the necessary managerial expertise in place to carry out our business plans and to commence operations at our Plants. Our plant manager has worked at similar plants for approximately six years, prior to joining our Company. Although our Pla nt manager has been a manager at profitable Fagen built plants, we are still presently, and likely will continue to be, heavily dependent upon our current management, who, with the exception of our Plant manager, has no experience in the operations of ethanol plants. We presently have only eight full-time employees and three part-time employees. Our founders and directors will therefore be instrumental to our success. 33 We currently have nine directors. Our two founding stockholders and initial directors live in Nevada and Utah. Seven other directors make up our board. Three of those directors live in Iowa, two others live in Nevada, another lives in Utah and the ninth resides in New Jersey. These individuals are experienced in business generally. Some have experience in raising capital, others in construction, one in operating truck lines, and in governing and operating other types of companies, but none of them have significant experience in organizing, building and operating an ethanol plant. It is also possible that one or more of our founding stockholders and/or initial directors may later become unable to serve, and we may be unable to recruit and retain suitable replacements. Our dependence on our founding stockholders and current directors may have a material adverse impact upon our operations, our cash flows and overall financial performance. < /P> Our board of directors will have the exclusive right to make all decisions with respect to the management and operation of our business and our affairs. Investors will have no right to participate in the decisions of our board of directors or in the management of the Plants. Investors will only be permitted to vote in a limited number of circumstances. Accordingly, no person should purchase securities unless such person is willing to entrust all aspects of our management to the board of directors. We are presently managed by our board of directors. However, none of the directors have significant expertise in the ethanol industry. In addition, all members of our board of directors are presently engaged in business and other activities outside of and in addition to our business, with the exception of our CEO and cofounder, Barry Ellsworth, who devotes all of his time to the daily activities of the Company. These other activities all impose substantial demand on the time and attention of such directors. We anticipate hiring a plant manager for the Plant in Superior in the near future with experience in the ethanol industry and a production plant similar to our proposed Plant, as we have hired a plant manager for our Plant being built in Shenandoah. We have hired a controller for the Shenandoah Plant and we intend to hire a controller/accountant for the Superior Plant that hopefully has both experience as a controller of a public Company and experience with an ethanol production plant. However, there is no assurance that we will be successful in attracting or retaining such individuals because of a limited number of individuals with expertise in the area and a competitive market with many new plants being constructed. Furthermore, we may have difficulty in attracting other competent personnel to relocate to Shenandoah, Iowa, or Superior, Iowa, in the event that such personnel are not available locally. Our failure to attract and retain such individuals would likely hav e a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. We have a history of operating losses and may never achieve profitable operations. For the period from our formation on June 29, 2004 through November 30, 2006, we incurred an accumulated net income of $470,371 related to our income from derivative financial instruments and interest income offset by operating expenses. We believe we will incur significant losses from this time forward until we are able to successfully complete construction and commence operations of our Plants. There is no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to build and operate an ethanol plant. Even if we successfully meet all of these objectives and begin operations at the ethanol Plants, there is no assurance that we will be able to operate profitably. We will be dependent on our Design Builders and Technology Providers for expertise in the commencement of operation in the ethanol industry and any loss of this relationship could result in diminished returns or the entire loss of any investment. 34 We are dependent on our relationship with Fagen, Inc., and its employees. Specifically, we are dependent upon Mr. Roland “Ron” Fagen. Mr. Fagen and the employees of his company have considerable experience in the construction, start-up and operation of ethanol plants. Any loss of our relationship with Fagen, Inc. and/or Mr. Fagen, particularly during the construction and start-up period for the Shenandoah Plant, may have a material adverse impact on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. In the same manner, concerning the Superior project, we are dependant on Agra Industries and Delta T, and their employees, who have experience in the construction, start-up and operation of ethanol plants. Any loss of our relationship with Agra and/or Delta T, particularly during the construction and start-up period for the Superior Plant, may have a material adverse impact on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. Risks Related to Construction of the Plant We will depend on key suppliers, whose failure to perform could hinder our ability to operate profitably and decrease the value of your investment. We are highly dependent upon Fagen, Inc. to design and build the Shenandoah Plant under our Design-Build Agreement, as we are with Agra and Delta T at the Superior Plant. There are general risks and potential delays associated with such a project, including, but not limited to, fire, weather, permitting issues, and delays in the provision of materials or labor to the construction site. Certain parts for ethanol plants are currently back ordered and we may not be able to get delivery of those parts in a timely manner. Any significant delay in the planned completion date may have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. It is believed that Fagen, Inc. has entered into agreements to build numerous other ethanol plants such as our proposed Plant and to expand several other existing plants. There is a risk that Fagen has taken on so much work that Fagen might not be able to perform in a timely manner. If this were to be the case, Fagen, Inc. may be forced to terminate some of its relationships with entities for whom Fagen, Inc. has contracted to build plants, or perhaps not be able to construct said plants within the timeframes promised. If Fagen were to terminate its relationship with us after construction was initiated, there is no assurance that we would be able to obtain a replacement general contractor. Fagen is the most respected builder of ethanol plants in the country and we anticipate that the Shenandoah Plant will be delivered as promised by Fagen. However, if Fagen were not able to deliver the Plant within the timetable promised, we could come into a situation of default with our lenders. Any such event would likely have a material adverse affect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. The Design-Build Agreement contains a liquidated damages or consequential damages provision. This would benefit us, but it could result in an early completion bonus clause for Fagen, Inc. Our payment of an early completion bonus could substantially reduce our net cash flows and financial performance during the periods of the payment of such bonus. The same type of situation exists at the Superior site. Agra has experience building ethanol plants, as does Delta T. However, we believe that both Agra and Delta T have entered into other contracts to build ethanol plants for other owners, due to the rapid expansion taking place in the U.S. ethanol industry. There is a risk that Agra and Delta T have taken on so much work that they might not be able to perform in a timely manner. The risk of parts not being delivered in time exists at the Superior Plant also. Any significant delay in the planned completion date may have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. Further, we do not believe that Agra or Delta T have the assets that Fagen and ICM have, and any problems at our Plant or other plants they are building could have a material effect on their cash flows, which could negatively affect the construction of the Plant in Superior. 35 We will depend on our Design Builders and Technology providers for the timely completion of our Plants and training of personnel, but their involvement in other projects could delay the commencement of our operations and further delay our ability to commence operations. We believe our design builders and technology providers are negotiating and have undertaken with other parties to begin the construction of numerous other ethanol plants in 2007. If they have entered into other Design-Build contracts with liquidated damage or consequential damage clauses with other plants, as we believe they have, there could be substantial risk to our projects. For example, if they were under pressure to complete another project in order to avoid the operation of such a clause or are already operating under such a clause, they might prioritize the completion of these other plants ahead of our Plants. As a result, our ability to sell ethanol and distillers grains would be delayed having a material adverse effect upon our operations, cash flows, and financial performance. It is also believed that our design builders and technology providers have investments in other projects currently under construction, as well as others that are scheduled to be built, that are substantially greater than the investment they have in our projects. No assurance can be given that they will not commit more of their time and resources to complete such projects more quickly than ours. As a result, our ability to sell ethanol and distillers grains would be delayed having a material adverse effect upon our operations, cash flows, and financial performance. We are also highly dependent upon our design builders and technology providers experience and ability to train our personnel in operating the Plants. If the Plants are built and do not operate to the level anticipated by us in our business plan, we will rely on our design builders and technology providers to adequately address such deficiencies. There is no assurance that they will be able to address such deficiencies in an acceptable manner. Failure to do so could have a material adverse affect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. Construction delays could result in a delay in our commencement of operations and generation of revenue, if any. We expect that, at the earliest, it will be towards the end of July of 2007, before we begin operations at the Shenandoah Plant. However, it could be later under the contract we have with Fagen. Construction projects often involve delays in obtaining permits, construction delays due to weather conditions, or other events that delay the construction schedule. In addition, changes in interest rates or the credit environment or changes in political administrations at the federal, state or local level that result in policy change towards ethanol or this project, could cause construction and operation delays. If it takes longer to obtain necessary permits or construct the Plant in Shenandoah than we anticipate, it would delay our ability to generate revenues and make it difficult for us to meet our debt service obligations. This could reduce the value of our common stock and could negatively affect our ability to execute our plan of operation. If there are defects in the Plants construction it may negatively affect our ability to operate the Plants. There is no assurance that defects in materials and/or workmanship in the Plants will not occur. Under the terms of the Design-Build Contracts, our builders have warranted that the material and equipment furnished to build the Plants would be new, of good quality, and free from material defects in material or workmanship at the time of delivery. Though the Design-Build Contract requires our builders to correct all defects in material or workmanship for a period of one year after substantial completion of the Plants, material defects in material or workmanship may still occur. Such defects could cause us to delay the commencement of operations of the Plants, or, if such defects are discovered after operations have commenced, to halt or discontinue the Plants’ operations. Any such event may have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. 36 Any delay or unanticipated cost in providing rail service infrastructure to the Plants could significantly impede our ability to successfully operate the Plants at a profit. The site in Shenandoah lies adjacent to the lines of the Burlington Northern Railroad (BNSF). As mentioned above, the spur on which the Plant will be located has been upgraded to meet HAZMAT (Hazardous Materials) standards. Approximately 20 miles of the spur has been rehabilitated. The cost to rehabilitate the rail was approximately $3.5 million. However, if there are any other major renovations that might need to be done to the track in the future, it is our responsibility to pay for such renovations. We have entered into an agreement with BNSF regarding the maintenance of the track, but there is no assurance that further defects in the rehabilitated track could not occur that would require further work on the track at our cost. If this were to occur, it could delay our ability to begin operations in the most profitable manner. We will need to construct additional track from the main line and lay more track for railcar storage at the Plant and along a portion of the spur that we are going to purchase from BNSF that will be deemed “Industrial Track” that we will be responsible to upgrade at additional cost to the Company. In order to have rail service for the Plant, a rail siding to accommodate at least 35 rail cars of approximately 5,800 feet will need to be added to the site. The estimated cost of adding such rail is approximately $2,000,000. We have negotiated with a third party contractor that is experienced in rail construction to provide this rail at the Plant and to upgrade the portion of the spur that we will be purchasing from BNSF. There is no assurance that the third party we have contracted with to complete this work will be able to complete it in a timely fashion. We believe they will be able to do so. However, no assurance can be given that they will be successful in doing so and failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on us, our cash flows and financial performance. The same type of situation exists at the Superior location. Although we do not need to rehabilitate a spur in Superior, we will be required to build an extensive loop track at the site that will allow us to load out unit trains of our ethanol and distillers grains. We must enter into an agreement with a third party to complete this work. We believe that we will be able to do so and that such third party will be able to complete the track in a timely manner in accordance with the requirements indicated by the Union Pacific Railroad. However, no assurance can be given that we can find such a third party to complete this work or that the work can be completed for the amount we have budgeted to do this in a timely manner. If we were not able to complete the track prior to the completion of the Plant, this would have a material adverse effect on us, our cash flows and financial performance. Any material variations to the actual cost verses our cost estimates relating to the construction and operation of the Plant could materially and adversely affect our ability to operate the Plant profitably. It is anticipated that Fagen, Inc. will construct the Plant in Shenandoah for the agreed upon contract price, based on the plans and specifications in the Design-Build Contract. We have based our capital needs on a design for the Plant that will cost $55.8 million and additional start-up and development costs of $28.9 million for a total of $84.7 million. This price includes construction period interest, construction contingencies and approximately $7.5 million in working capital to purchase such things as corn, enzymes, denaturant, and natural gas at start up. It is anticipated that Agra will construct the Plant in Superior and the total cost of the Plant will be $97.6 million, based on the plans and specifications in the Design-Build Contract with Agra of $75.6 and $22.0 million of other costs. These costs include construction period interest $1.3 million, construction contingencies of approximately $4 million and approximately $7.2 million in working capital to purchase such things as corn, enzymes, denaturant, and natural gas at start up. There is no assurance that the final cost of the Plants will not be higher. There is no assurance that there will not be design changes or cost overruns associated with the construction of the Plants. Any significant increase in the estimated construction cost of the Plants may have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. 37 We have acquired insurance that we believe to be adequate to prevent loss from foreseeable risks. However, events occur for which no insurance is available or for which insurance is not available on terms that are acceptable to us. Loss from such an event, such as, but not limited to, earthquake, tornados, war, riot, terrorism or other risks, may not be insured and such a loss may have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. Risks Related to Ethanol Production Our ability to operate at a profit is largely dependent on grain prices, the price of natural gas, and ethanol and distillers dried grains prices. Our results of operations and financial condition will be significantly affected by the cost and supply of grain and natural gas and by the selling price for ethanol and DDGS. Price and supply are subject to and determined by market forces over which we have no control. We will be dependent on the availability and price of corn. Although the areas surrounding the Plants produce a significant amount of corn and we do not anticipate problems sourcing corn, there is no assurance that a shortage will not develop, particularly if other ethanol plants were to be built in close proximity to our Plants, there were an extended drought or other production problem. In addition, our original financial projections assumed that we could purchase grain for approximately $2.25 per bushel, which was the average price of corn in the State of Iowa over the preceding 10 years when our original feasibility studies were done. However, the price of corn has risen dramatically in the pa st year due to the anticipated demand for corn being caused by the rapid expansion of the ethanol industry in the United States. At the time of this writing, the average price of corn in and around our plants was approximately $3.72 per bushel; the price of ethanol for the January 2007 contract on the Chicago Board of Trade was approximately $2.18; the price of natural gas for the January 2007 contract on the NYMEX was approximately $6.26, and the price for dried distillers grains in Iowa was approximately $145 per ton. At said prices, we anticipate that we could operate our Plants at a profit, creating enough free cash flow to pay off our debt in a timely fashion. However, if corn prices were to continue to escalate and the price of ethanol were to drop, we may not be able to operate at a profit and could lose money. No assurance can be given that we will be able to purchase corn at prices anywhere near the historic averages of corn in Iowa; that we will be able to purchase natural gas at, or ne ar, its current price; that we will be able to sell ethanol at, or near, current prices; or that we will be able to sell our distillers grains at, or near, current prices. Commodities prices have been extremely volatile in the past and are expected to be extremely volatile in the future, due to factors beyond our control, such as weather, domestic and global demand, shortages, export prices and various governmental policies in the U.S. and around the world. We anticipate purchasing our corn from farmers in the areas surrounding the Plants and in the cash market, and hedging corn through futures contracts or with options to reduce short-term exposure to price fluctuations. We may contract with third parties to manage our hedging activities and corn purchasing. However, we have no definitive agreements with any third party to do so at this time, nor do we have any contracts with any corn producers to provide corn to the Plants. We anticipate that we will begin entering into cash corn contracts with local farmers and/or local grain elevators in the near future as we draw nearer to production at the Shenandoah Plant. We have also purchased futures contracts on corn as part of our hedging strategy. But we do not at this time have any agreements for contracted corn to be delivered to our Plants, and no assurance can be given that we will be able to enter into such agreements on acceptable terms. Our purchasing and hedging activities may or may not lower our price of corn, and in a period of declining corn prices, these advance purchase and hedging strategies may result in our paying a higher price for corn than our competitors. Further, hedging for protection against the adverse changes in the price of corn may be unsuccessful, and could result in substantial losses to us. Generally, higher corn prices will produce lower profit margins. This is especially true if market conditions do not allow us to pass through increased corn costs to our customers. There is no assurance that we will be able to pass through higher corn prices. If a period of high corn prices were to be sustained for some time, such pricing may have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. 38 Our revenues will be dependent on the market prices for ethanol and DDGS. These prices can be volatile as a result of a number of factors. These factors include the overall supply and demand, the price of gasoline, level of government support, and the availability and price of competing products. For instance, the price of ethanol tends to increase as the price of gasoline increases, and the price of ethanol tends to decrease as the price of gasoline decreases. Any lowering of gasoline prices will likely also lead to lower prices for ethanol and adversely affect our operating results Increased ethanol production may negatively affect ethanol prices and materially reduce our ability to operate successfully. We believe that ethanol production is expanding rapidly at this time. There are a number of new plants under construction throughout the United States and many other projects planned for construction. We further expect that many existing ethanol plants are planning to expand to increase their production just as we intend to do at our Plants in the future. With the current rapid expansion taking place within the ethanol industry, demand for ethanol must also increase dramatically. However, we cannot provide any assurance or guarantee that there will be any material or significant increase in the demand for ethanol. Further, the ever increasing production of ethanol may lead to lower ethanol prices, and the increased production of ethanol could have other adverse effects as well. For example, the increased production could lead to increased supplies of co-products from the production of ethanol, such as DDGS. Those increased supplies could lead to lower prices for those co-products. Also, the increased production of ethanol could result in a further increase in the demand for corn. This could result in higher prices for corn and corn production creating lower profits. There can be no assurance as to the price of ethanol or DDGS in the future. Any material adverse change affecting the price of ethanol and/or DDGS may have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. We expect to compete with existing and future ethanol plants and oil companies, which may result in diminished returns on your investment. We will operate in a very competitive environment. We will compete with large, multi-product, multi-national companies that have much greater resources than we anticipate having, and plants with a capacity greater than, equal to or less than our Plants. We will face competition for capital, labor, management, corn and other resources. Many of our competitors have greater resources than we currently have or will have in the future. We anticipate that as additional ethanol plants are constructed and brought on line, the supply of ethanol will increase. The absence of increased demand may result in lower ethanol prices. No assurance can be given that we will be able to compete successfully or that such competition will not have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. The risk also exists that other gasoline additives could be developed in the future that could be used as oxygenates (as was MTBE) that could be produced for less than we will be able to produce ethanol. If that were to occur, the demand for ethanol could diminish. Any such occurrence could have an adverse effect on our ability to operate our business profitably. We are dependent on others third-party brokers or other to sell our product which may result in diminished returns. We currently have no sales force of our own to market ethanol and DDGS and do not intend to establish such a sales force. We intend to sell all of our ethanol to a third-party broker, RPMG, pursuant to our contracts with RPMG, and intend to do the same with a third-party broker, Commodity Specialists, to market and sell our DDGS feed products. As a result, we will be dependent on our ethanol broker and our feed broker. If the ethanol broker breaches the contract or does not have the ability (for financial or other reasons) to purchase all of the ethanol we produce, we will not have any readily available means to sell our ethanol. Our lack of a sales force and reliance on third parties to sell and market our products may place us at a competitive disadvantage. Our failure to sell all of our ethanol and DDGS feed products may have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. 39 Engaging in hedging activities to minimize the potential volatility of corn prices could result in substantial costs and expenses. In an attempt to minimize the effects of the volatility of corn costs on operating profits, we have taken hedging positions in the corn futures markets and will likely take additional hedging positions in corn futures markets as well as in the natural gas markets. Hedging means protecting the price at which we buy corn and the price at which we will sell our products in the future. It is a way to attempt to reduce the risk caused by price fluctuation. The effectiveness of such hedging activities is dependent upon, among other things, the cost of corn and natural gas and our ability to sell sufficient amounts of ethanol and DDGS. Although we will attempt to link hedging activities to sales plans and pricing activities, such hedging activities can themselves result in costs because price movements in corn contracts and natural gas are highly volatile and are influenced by many factors that are beyond our control. Our ability to successfully operate is dependent on the availability of energy and water at anticipated prices. The Plants will require a significant and uninterrupted supply of electricity, natural gas and water to operate. We have entered into agreements with local gas, electric, and water utilities to provide our needed energy and water. However, no assurance can be given that those utilities will be able to reliably supply the gas, electricity, and water that we need. If there is an interruption in the supply of energy or water for any reason, such as supply, delivery or mechanical problems, we may be required to halt production. If production is halted for an extended period of time, it may have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. Originally, a new gas pipeline of approximately 9 miles was going to be built to run to the Shenandoah Plant site. Mid American Energy was going to build this line for us at an estimated cost of approximately $3,510,000. We would be required to put up approximately $1.5 million of that cost. Since that time, US Energy Services, who has been hired as our energy consultant, and Mid American Energy discussed this issue and decided that sufficient gas could be supplied to the Plant simply by upgrading an existing line running from Red Oak to Shenandoah. The cost to do this will be significantly less. Therefore, we will not have to pay any of the $1.5 million dollars we had originally thought we were going to have to pay. However, no assurance can be given at this time that the pipeline can be upgraded in a timely manner. If it were not completed by the time the Plant is ready to commence operations, we could come into a state of default with our lenders, and we would not b e able to commence operations in a timely manner, which would have an extremely negative effect on our cash flows and financial performance. Further, even if the pipeline were to be completed on time, at the present time we have no contracts, commitments or understandings with any natural gas supplier to supply gas to the Plant. We have entered into an agreement with U.S. Energy Services, Inc. of Wayzata, Minnesota to negotiate and purchase natural gas for the Plant from third party providers of natural gas for up to six months after the Plant becomes operational. However, there can be no assurance given at this time that we or U.S. Energy Services will be able to obtain a sufficient supply of natural gas or that we will be able to procure alternative sources of natural gas on acceptable terms, even with the assistance of U.S. Energy Services. In addition, natural gas prices have historically fluctuated. Presently, prices are around the $5.84 mcf, but in the recent past they have been as high as $15.00 mcf. Higher natural gas prices may have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. Therefore, we urge investors to carefully consider the significant risks involved concerning the potential of higher natural gas prices. 40 We will also need to purchase significant amounts of electricity to operate the Plants. We have negotiated an agreement with Mid American Energy to supply electricity to the Plant in Shenandoah for a period of five years. We believe that our agreement with Mid American will be beneficial to the Company. However, no assurance can be given that we will be able to negotiate such favorable rates after the five year period is over. We have entered into an agreement with the Iowa Lakes Electric Cooperative and the Corn Belt Cooperative to supply electricity to the Superior Plant that we believe is reasonable. However, electricity prices have historically fluctuated significantly. Sustained increases in the price of electricity in the future would increase our cost of production. As a result, these issues may have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. Sufficient availability and quality of water are important requirements to produce ethanol. We anticipate that our water requirements to be approximately 400 to 600 gallons per minute, depending on the quality of the water at our Plants. The town of Shenandoah has sufficient capacities of water to meet our needs and we have negotiated a contract with the city to supply water to the Plant at a price that we believe will be favorable to our operations. However, no assurance can be given that a prolonged drought could not diminish the water supplies in the areas of the Shenandoah Plant, or that we would continue to have sufficient water supplies in the future. Shenandoah is in the southwestern part of the State of Iowa. Historically, this area of the State has experienced periods of drought. The City of Shenandoah recently drilled a well to augment the grey water that will be going to the Plant, which will help lower the temperature of the water during the summer months. We believe this will benefit our operations. However, the possibility of drought still exists. If such a drought were to occur, we may have to purchase water from other sources, such as the local rural water Company, which would cost more. If we ever had to do this, it may have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance and could even cause us to cease production for periods of time. Risk of foreign competition from producers who can produce ethanol at less expensive prices than it can be produced from corn in the United States. We believe there are large international companies that have much greater resources than we have, developing foreign ethanol production capacity. For example, Cargill has developed ethanol production capacity in El Salvador to process Brazilian ethanol for export to the U.S. Long-standing U.S. trade preferences for Caribbean and Central American countries allow them to ship ethanol to the U.S. duty-free, avoiding a 54 cent per gallon import tariff that would otherwise apply. Under the current guidelines, we believe as much as 321 million gallons of ethanol could be imported into the U.S. in this manner with no duty being paid in 2007. Brazil makes ethanol primarily from sugarcane for significantly less that what it costs to make ethanol from corn in Iowa. Brazil also exports ethanol directly to the U.S. paying the tariff when ethanol prices are high enough to do so, as they were earlier this year (2006). If significant additional foreign capacity is created, such facilities could produce a glut of ethanol on the world markets. Such a glut could lower the price of ethanol throughout the world, including the U.S. If this were to happen, it could have an adverse effect our operations and potential profitability. Further, if the import duty on foreign ethanol were to ever be lifted for any reason, our ability to compete with such foreign companies would be drastically reduced. Although, at this time, such risks cannot be precisely quantified, we believe that such risks exist, and could increase in the future. 41 Risks Related to Regulation and Governmental Action The loss of favorable tax benefits for ethanol production could hinder our ability to successfully operate. Volumetric Ethanol Excise Tax Credit (VEETC) – The “Blenders’ Credit” The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 created the volumetric ethanol excise tax credit (VEETC). VEETC was established to replace the partial tax exemption ethanol-blended fuel received from the federal excise tax on gasoline. Prior to VEETC, gasoline was taxed at 18.4 cents per gallon. As an incentive for oil companies to blend ethanol with gasoline, ethanol-enriched fuel (E10) received 5.2 cents per gallon partial exemption from the gas tax, effectively reducing the tax rate on E10 to 13.2 cents per gallon. States that used significant volumes of ethanol-blended fuel argued the imbalance in the taxation of the fuels shortchanged what they received for highway improvements under the Highway Trust Fund. Under VEETC, the federal excise tax on gasoline and ethanol-blended fuel was made consistent at 18.4 cents per gallon ensuring ethanol-blended fuel remits the same contribution to the Highway Trust Fund as all gasoline. Additionally, the tax incentive was shifted from a partial exemption to a tax credit that oil companies could qualify for based on the volume of ethanol they blend with gasoline. Referred to as the blender’s credit, VEETC provides oil companied with an economic incentive – a tax credit – to blend ethanol with gasoline, totaling 51 cents per gallon on pure ethanol, 5.1 cents per gallon for E10, and 43 cents per gallon on E85. VEETC provides the tax incentive through December 31, 2010. Often the tax credit is passed on to motorists in the form of more cost-effective fuel at the pump. These tax incentives to the ethanol industry may not continue beyond their scheduled expiration date or, if they continue, the incentives may not be at the same level. The revocation or amendment of any one or more of those laws, regulations or programs could adversely affect the future use of ethanol in a material way. We cannot assure you that any of those laws, regulations or programs will continue. The elimination or reduction of federal tax incentives to the ethanol industry would have a material adverse impact on our business by making it more costly or difficult for us to produce and sell ethanol. A change in environmental regulations or violations thereof could impede our ability to successfully operate the Plants. We will be subject to extensive air, water and other environmental regulation. We have had to obtain a number of environmental permits to construct and operate the Plants. Ethanol production involves the emission of various airborne pollutants, including particulate (PM10), carbon dioxide (CO²), oxides of nitrogen (N0x) and volatile organic compounds. As a result, we will need to obtain an air quality permit from the IDNR. We have obtained the permits necessary to commence construction at both sites, including our air permits. However, we still need to apply for and obtain certain other permits before we can commence operations. We anticipate that we will be able to obtain these permits before the times that they will be needed. However, if for any reason any of these permits are not granted, construction costs for the Plants may increase, or the Plants may not be constructed at all. In addition, the IDNR could impose conditions or other restrictions in the permits that are detrimental to us or which increase costs to us above those assumed in this project. Any such event would likely have a material adverse impact on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. Even after receiving all required permits from the IDNR, we may also be subject to regulations on emissions from the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”). Currently the EPA’s statutes and rules do not require us to obtain separate EPA approval in connection with construction and operation of the proposed Plants. Additionally, environmental laws and regulations, both at the federal and state level, are subject to change and changes can be made retroactively. Consequently, even if we have the proper permits at the present time, we may be required to invest or spend considerable resources to comply with future environmental regulations. If any of these events were to occur, they may have a material adverse impact on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. 42 Our inability to obtain required regulatory permits and/or approvals will impede our ability and may prohibit completely our ability to successfully operate the Plants. We applied for and received from the IDNR a storm-water discharge permit at the Superior site. However, we still need to obtain a water withdrawal permit, public water supply permit, and a waste water discharge permit. We do not believe we will be required to apply for the later permit for the Plant in Shenandoah, because the waste water is being sent back to the City, where they will use much of it to water their golf course. Any water that would need to be discharged in Shenandoah would be discharged under the City’s permits. The majority of the needed permits have been applied for and obtained, and we anticipate that we will be able to successfully obtain all other necessary permits prior to the commencement of operations at both Plants. However, if for any reason any of these permits are not granted, construction costs for the Plants may increase, or the Plants may not be completed in a timely fashion or at all. In addition, in the future the IDNR and/or the EPA could impose conditions or other restrictions in the permits that are detrimental to us or which increase costs to us above those assumed in our projects. The IDNR and the EPA could also change their interpretation of applicable permit requirements or the testing protocols and methods necessary to obtain a permit either before, during or after the permitting process. The IDNR and the EPA could also modify the requirements for obtaining a permit. Any such event would likely have a material adverse impact on our operations, cash flo ws and financial performance. Even if we receive all required permits from the IDNR, we may also be subject to regulations on emissions from the United States Environmental Protection Agency, “EPA”. Currently the EPA’s statutes and rules do not require us to obtain separate EPA approval in connection with construction and operation of the proposed Plants. Additionally, environmental laws and regulations, both at the federal and state level, are subject to change and changes can be made retroactively. Consequently, even if we have the proper permits at the present time, we may be required to invest or spend considerable resources to comply with future environmental regulations or new or modified interpretations of those regulations, to the detriment of our financial performance. Federal laws that required the use of oxygenated gasoline and encouraged ethanol production and use were changed substantially in the Energy Policy Act of 2005. The 2005 Energy Policy Act (EPACT) eliminated the mandated use of oxygenates and established minimum nationwide levels of renewable fuels -- Renewable Fuels Standard (RFS) -- to be used in gasoline. Biodiesel and ethanol (and other renewable fuels) are counted toward the minimum usage requirements of the RFS. Another key policy aspect of the 2005 EPACT was the elimination of MTBE liability protection sought by refiners; MTBE -- a chemical element known to cause groundwater contamination -- was previously used as an oxygenate in gasoline. Ethanol replaced MTBE as an oxygenate in cities that used to require reformulated gasoline (RFG). Oxygenated gasoline is commonly referred to as RFG. Consequently, demand for ethanol has soared since the passage of 2005 EPACT in July 2005. Ethanol contains 35% oxygen by weight; and when combined with gasoline, ethanol acts as a superior oxygenate. As a result, the gasoline burns cleaner and releases less green house gases (GHG). The federal government encourages the use of oxygenated gasoline as a measure to protect the environment since the 1990s. While the federally mandated RFS has set a floor for ethanol use, 40 states have passed some sort of renewable fuels legislation (either production or use incentives) that should raise the actual use of ethanol in transportation fuel above the 2005 EPACT RFS mandate. However, the Act also mandated the use of increasing amounts of renewable fuels to be used in the U.S., and the EPA still requires states to meet certain air quality standards, which many states attempt to meet by blending ethanol with the gasoline consumed in those States. 43 The government’s regulation of the environment changes constantly. It is possible that more stringent federal or state environmental rules or regulations could be adopted, which could increase our operating costs and expenses. It also is possible that federal or state environmental rules or regulations could be adopted that could have an adverse effect on the use of ethanol. For example, changes in the environmental regulations regarding the required oxygen content of automobile emissions could have an adverse effect on the ethanol industry. Furthermore, Plant operations likely will be governed by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA). OSHA regulations may change such that the costs of operations at the Plants may increase. Any of these regulatory factors may result in higher costs or other materially adverse conditions effecting our operations, cash flows and financial performance. Risks Related to Conflicts of Interest We have conflicts of interest with our Design Builders and Technology Providers which could result in loss of capital and reduced financial performance. Our Company is and will continue to be advised by one or more employees or associates of our Design Builders and Technology Providers. Our Design Builders and Technology Providers are expected to continue to be involved in substantially all material aspects of our formation and operations for sometime. Consequently, the terms and conditions of our agreements and understandings with them have not been negotiated at arm’s length. Therefore, there is no assurance that our arrangements with such parties are as favorable to us as could have been if obtained from unaffiliated third parties. In addition, because of the extensive role that they are expected to have in the construction and operation of the Plants, it may be difficult or impossible for us to enforce claims that we may have against them, if such things were to arise. If this were to occur, it may have a material adverse impact on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. Our Design Builders and Technology Providers and their affiliates may also have conflicts of interest because employees or agents of our Design Builders and Technology Providers are involved as owners, creditors and in other capacities with other ethanol plants in the United States. Recently, U.S. BioEnergy completed an IPO. Ron Fagen is one of the largest shareholders of that Company and may decide to commit much more of Fagen’s resources to such projects than Fagen is willing to commit to the project Fagen is building for us. We cannot require Fagen, Inc. to devote its full time or attention to our activities, nor can we do so were Agra is concerned As a result, both Fagen and Agra may have or come to have a conflict of interest in allocating personnel, materials and other resources to our Plants. Though we will attempt to address actual or potential material conflicts of interest as they arise or become known, we have not established any formal procedures to address or resolve conflicts of interest. There is no assurance that any conflict of interest will not have adverse consequences to our operations, cash flows and financial performance. Unidentified Risks The foregoing discussion is not a complete list or explanation of the risks involved with an investment in this business. Additional risks will likely be experienced that are not presently foreseen by us. Investors are not to construe this report as constituting legal or tax advice. Before making any decision to invest in us, investors should read this entire report, including all of its exhibits, and consult with their own investment, legal, tax and other professional advisors. An investor should be aware that we will assert that the investor consented to the risks and the conflicts of interest described or inherent in this report if the investor brings a claim against us or any of our directors, officers, managers, employee, advisors, agents or representatives. 44 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 