ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Other events that we do not currently anticipate or that we currently deem immaterial also may affect our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Relating to Our Company A significant portion of our revenues are related to the dollar amount of fuel purchased by our customers, and, as a result, volatility in fuel prices could have an adverse effect on our payment processing revenues. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 50 percent of our total revenues result from fees paid to us by fuel providers based on a negotiated percentage of the purchase price of fuel purchased by our customers. Our customers primarily purchase fuel. Accordingly, part our revenues are dependent on fuel prices, which are prone to volatility in the United States. For example, we estimate that during 2010, a 10 cent decline in average fuel prices below average actual prices would have resulted in approximately an $7.4 million decline in 2010 revenue. Declines in the price of fuel could have a material adverse effect on our total revenues. Fuel prices are dependent on many factors, all of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among others: • supply and demand for oil and gas, and expectations regarding supply and demand; • speculative trading; • actions by major oil exporting nations; • political conditions in other oil-producing , gas-producing or supply-route countries, including revolution, insurgency, terrorism or war; • refinery capacity; • weather; • the prices of foreign exports and the availability of alternate fuel sources; • value of the U.S. dollar versus other major currencies; • general worldwide economic conditions; and • governmental regulations and tariffs. Derivative transactions may not adequately stabilize our cash flows and may cause volatility in our earnings. Because a portion of our revenues are subject to fuel price volatility, we utilize fuel price sensitive derivative instruments to manage our exposure to this volatility in North America by seeking to limit fluctuations in our cash flows. For a more detailed discussion of these derivative instruments see our “Fuel Price Derivatives” discussion in Item 1. These instruments may expose us to the risk of financial loss if, for example, the counterparties fail to perform under the contracts governing those arrangements, we unwind our position before the expiration of the contract or there is a significant change in fuel prices. The success of our fuel price derivatives program depends upon, among other things, our ability to forecast the amount of fuel purchased by fleets using our services in North America and the percent fee we will earn from merchants. To the extent our forecasts are inaccurate these derivative contracts may be inadequate to protect us against significant changes in fuel prices or over-expose us to fuel price volatility. Realized and unrealized gains and losses on these contracts are recorded each quarter to reflect changes in the market value of the underlying contracts. As a result, our quarterly net income may be prone to significant volatility. In an increasing interest rate environment, interest expense on the variable rate portion of our borrowings on our credit facility would increase and we may not be able to replace our maturing certificates of deposit with new certificates of deposit that carry the same interest rates. We had $407 million of indebtedness outstanding at December 31, 2010, under our credit agreements, of which we had borrowings of $390 million on our credit facility that bore interest at a floating rate equal to the one-month LIBOR plus 70.0 basis points. During 2009 we entered into an interest rate swap contract that ends in July 2011 that fixed the interest rate on $50 million of the variable rate revolving credit facility. During 2010 we entered into another interest rate swap contract that ends in March 2012 that fixed the interest rate on an additional $150 million of our variable rate revolving credit facility. Rising interest rates would result in reduced net income. The certificates of deposit that our industrial bank subsidiary, FSC, uses to finance payments to major oil companies carry fixed rates from issuance to maturity. Upon maturity, the certificates of deposit will be replaced by issuing new certificates of deposit to the extent that they are needed. In a rising interest rate environment, FSC would not be able to replace maturing certificates of deposit with new certificates of deposit that carry the same interest rates. Rising interest rates would result in reduced net income to the extent that certificates of deposit mature and need to be replaced. At December 31, 2010, FSC had outstanding $370.4 million in certificates of deposit maturing within one year and $87.5 million in certificates of deposit maturing within one to two years. 11 Table of Contents Our exposure to counterparty credit risk could create an adverse affect on our financial condition. We engage in a number of transactions where counterparty credit risk is a relevant factor. Specifically, we have fuel price derivatives and interest rate swaps whose values at any point in time are dependent upon not only the market but also the viability of the counterparty. The failure or perceived weakness of any of our counterparties has the potential to expose us to risk of loss in these situations. Financial institutions, primarily banks, have historically been our most significant counterparties. Our industry continues to become increasingly competitive, which makes it more challenging for us to maintain profit margins at historical levels. We face and may continue to face increased levels of competition in each category of the overall industry from several companies that seek to offer competing capabilities and services. Historically, we have been able to provide customers with a wide spectrum of services and capabilities and, therefore, we have not considered price to be the exclusive or even the primary basis on which we compete. As our competitors have continued to develop their service offerings, it has become increasingly more challenging for us to compete solely on the basis of superior capabilities or service. In some areas of our business we have been forced to respond to competitive pressures by reducing our fees. We have seen erosion of our historical profit margins as we use alternative pricing to encourage existing strategic relationships to sign long-term contracts. If these trends continue and if competition intensifies, our profitability may be adversely impacted. While we have traditionally offered our services to all categories of the fleet industry, some of our competitors have successfully garnered significant share in particular categories of the overall industry. To the extent that our competitors are regarded as leaders in specific categories, they may have an advantage over us as we attempt to further penetrate these categories. We also face increased competition in our efforts to enter into new strategic relationships and renew existing strategic relationships on the same terms. Our business and operating results are dependent on several key strategic relationships, the loss of which could adversely affect our results of operations. Revenue we received from services we provided to our top five strategic relationships accounted for approximately 17 percent of our total revenues in 2010. Accordingly, we are dependent on maintaining our strategic relationships and our results of operations would be lower in the event that these relationships were terminated. Likewise, we have agreements with the major oil companies and fuel retailers whose locations accept our payment processing services. The termination of any of these agreements would reduce the number of locations where our payment processing services are accepted; therefore, we could lose our competitive advantage and our operating results could be adversely affected. We are exposed to risks associated with operations outside of the United States, which could harm both our domestic and international operations. We conduct operations in North America, Asia Pacific and Europe. As part of our business strategy and growth plan, we plan to further expand internationally. Expansion of our international operations could impose substantial burdens on our resources, divert management’s attention from domestic operations and otherwise harm our business. In addition, there are many barriers to competing successfully in the international market, including: • changes in the relations between the United States and foreign countries; • actions of foreign or United States governmental authorities affecting trade and foreign investment; • regulations on repatriation of funds; • increased infrastructure costs including complex legal, tax, accounting and information technology laws and treaties; • interpretation and application of local laws and regulations including, among others, those impacting anti-money laundering, financial transaction reporting and positive balance or pre-paid cards; • enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights; • potentially adverse tax consequences; and • local labor conditions and regulations. • fluctuation in foreign currencies We cannot assure you that our investments outside the United States will produce desired levels of revenue or costs, or that one or more of the factors listed above will not harm our business. 12 Table of Contents Decreased demand for fuel and other vehicle products and services could harm our business and results of operations. Demand for fuel and other vehicle products and services may be reduced by factors that are beyond our control, such as the implementation of fuel efficiency standards and the development by vehicle manufacturers and adoption by our fleet customers of vehicles with greater fuel efficiency or alternative fuel sources. Our failure to effectively implement new technology could jeopardize our position as a leader in our industry. As a provider of information management and payment processing services, we must constantly adapt and respond to the technological advances offered by our competitors and the informational requirements of our customers, including those related to the Internet, in order to maintain and improve upon our competitive position. We may not be able to expand our technological capabilities and service offerings as rapidly as our competitors, which could jeopardize our position as a leader in our industry. We are dependent on technology systems and electronic communications networks managed by third parties, which could result in our inability to prevent service disruptions. Our ability to process and authorize transactions electronically depends on our ability to electronically communicate with our fuel and vehicle maintenance providers through point-of-sale devices and electronic networks that are owned and operated by third parties. The electronic communications networks upon which we depend are often subject to disruptions of various magnitudes and durations. Any severe disruption of one or all of these networks could impair our ability to authorize transactions or collect information about such transactions, which, in turn, could harm our reputation for dependable service and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, our ability to collect enhanced data relating to our customers’ purchases may be limited by the use of older point-of-sale devices by fuel and vehicle maintenance providers. To the extent that fuel and vehicle maintenance providers within our network are slow to adopt advanced point-of-sale devices, we may not be able to offer the services and capabilities our customers demand. If we fail to adequately assess and monitor credit risks of our customers, we could experience an increase in credit loss. We are subject to the credit risk of our customers, many of which are small to mid-sized businesses. We use various formulae and models to screen potential customers and establish appropriate credit limits, but these formulae and models cannot eliminate all potential bad credit risks and may not prevent us from approving applications that are fraudulently completed. Moreover, businesses that are good credit risks at the time of application may become bad credit risks over time and we may fail to detect such change. In times of economic recession, the number of our customers who default on payments owed to us tends to increase. If we fail to adequately manage our credit risks, our bad debt expense could be significantly higher than it has been in the past. Volatility in the financial markets may negatively impact our ability to access credit. Adverse conditions in the credit market may limit our ability to access credit at a time when we would like or need to do so. Our revolving credit facility expires in May 2012 and our term note expires in August 2011 when the outstanding balance will be due. Any limitation of availability of funds or credit facilities could have an impact on our ability to refinance the maturing debt or react to changing economic and business conditions which could adversely impact us. The loss or suspension of the charter for our Utah industrial bank or changes in regulatory requirements could be disruptive to operations and increase costs. FSC’s bank regulatory status enables FSC to issue certificates of deposit, accept money market deposits and borrow on a federal funds rate basis. These funds are used to support our domestic payment processing operations, which require the Company to make payments to fuel and maintenance providers on behalf of fleets. FSC operates under a uniform set of state lending laws, and its operations are subject to extensive state and federal regulation. FSC is regulated and examined by the Utah Department of Financial Institutions on the state level, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation on the federal level. Continued licensing and federal deposit insurance are subject to ongoing satisfaction of compliance and safety and soundness requirements. FSC must be well capitalized and satisfy a range of additional capital requirements. If FSC were to lose its bank charter, Wright Express would either outsource its credit support activities or perform these activities itself, which would subject the Company to the credit laws of each individual state in which Wright Express conducts business. Furthermore, Wright Express could not be a MasterCard issuer and would have to work with another financial institution to issue the product or sell the portfolio. Any such change would be disruptive to Wright Express’ operations and could result in significant incremental costs. In addition, changes in the bank regulatory environment, including the implementation of new or varying measures or interpretations by the State of Utah or the federal government, may significantly affect or restrict the manner in which the Company conducts business domestically in the future. 13 Table of Contents We may not be able to adequately protect the data we collect about our customers, which could subject us to liability and damage our reputation. We collect and store data about our customers and their fleets, including bank account information and spending data. Our customers expect us to keep this information in our confidence. Attempts by experienced programmers or “hackers” to penetrate our network security could misappropriate our proprietary information or cause interruptions in our WEXOnline® web site. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of such security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. Moreover, any security breach or inadvertent transmission of information about our customers could expose us to liability and/or litigation and cause damage to our reputation. We may incur substantial losses due to fraudulent use of our charge cards. Under certain circumstances, when we fund customer transactions, we bear the risk of substantial losses due to fraudulent use of our charge cards. We do not maintain any insurance to protect us against any such losses. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could affect our financial results. We earn revenues, pay expenses, own assets and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Such currencies include the Australian dollar, euro, New Zealand dollar and the Great Britain Pound. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenues, income and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. Therefore, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies will affect our revenues, operating income and the value of balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies. We cannot assure that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against other currencies, will not materially affect our financial results. If we fail to maintain effective systems of internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, which could cause current and potential shareholders to lose confidence in our financial reporting, adversely affect the trading price of our securities or harm our operating results. Effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company. Our financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures are reliant, in part, on information we receive from third parties that supply information to us regarding transactions that we process. Any failure to develop or maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures could harm our reputation or operating results, or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we are unable to adequately maintain our internal control over financial reporting, our external auditors will not be able to issue an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Ineffective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our securities or affect our ability to access the capital markets and could result in regulatory proceedings against us by, among others, the SEC. In addition, a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting, which may lead to deficiencies in the preparation of financial statements, could lead to litigation claims against us. The defense of any such claims may cause the diversion of management’s attention and resources, and we may be required to pay damages if any such claims or proceedings are not resolved in our favor. Any litigation, even if resolved in our favor, could cause us to incur significant legal and other expenses. Such events could harm our business, affect our ability to raise capital and adversely affect the trading price of our securities. Historical transactions with our former parent company may adversely affect our financial statements. Historical transactions involving Avis Budget Group, Inc. (“Avis”) (formerly Cendant Corporation), our former corporate parent, and our other former affiliates such as Realogy Corporation and Wyndham Worldwide Corporation, may be reviewed from time to time by external parties that may include, but are not limited to, former subsidiaries or operating companies of Avis Budget Group, Inc., as well as government regulatory organizations and tax authorities. The decision by one or more of these organizations to undertake a review is beyond our control. While management does not believe, nor has any knowledge of, any transaction that would be in error or otherwise adjusted, corrections to the financial statements of Avis Budget Group, Inc., or its successor or its current or former affiliates, could adversely affect our financial statements. 14 Table of Contents Our ability to attract and retain qualified employees is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance. We believe our employees, including our executive management team, are our most important resource and, in our industry and geographic area, competition for qualified personnel is intense. If we were unable to retain and attract qualified employees, our performance could be materially adversely affected. If we engage in acquisitions, we will incur costs and may never realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions. We have acquired and may attempt to acquire businesses, technologies, services, products or licenses in technologies that we believe are a strategic fit with our business. The process of integrating any acquired business, technology, service or product may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and may divert significant management attention from our ongoing business operations. As a result, we may incur a variety of costs in connection with acquisitions and may never realize the anticipated benefits. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock If any entity controls 10 percent or more of our common stock and such entity has caused a violation of applicable banking laws by its failure to obtain any required approvals prior to acquiring that common stock, we have the power to restrict such entity’s ability to vote shares held by it. As owners of a Utah industrial bank, we are subject to banking regulations that require any entity that controls 10 percent or more of our common stock to obtain the prior approval of Utah banking authorities and the federal banking regulators. A failure to comply with these requirements could result in sanctions, including the loss of our Utah industrial bank charter. Our certificate of incorporation requires that if any stockholder fails to provide us with satisfactory evidence that any required approvals have been obtained, we may, or will if required by state or federal regulators, restrict such stockholder’s ability to vote such shares with respect to any matter subject to a vote of our stockholders. Provisions in our charter documents, Delaware law and applicable banking law may delay or prevent our acquisition by a third party. Our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and our rights plan contain several provisions that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions include, among other things, a classified board of directors, the elimination of stockholder action by written consent, advance notice for raising business or making nominations at meetings of stockholders and “blank check” preferred stock. Blank check preferred stock enables our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to designate and issue additional series of preferred stock with such special dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights, including the right to issue convertible securities with no limitations on conversion, and rights to dividends and proceeds in a liquidation that are senior to the common stock, as our board of directors may determine. These provisions may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting common stock. We also are subject to certain provisions of Delaware law, which could delay, deter or prevent us from entering into an acquisition, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder unless specific conditions are met. These provisions also may delay, prevent or deter a merger, acquisition, tender offer, proxy contest or other transaction that might otherwise result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market price for their common stock. In addition, because we own a Utah industrial bank, any purchaser of our common stock who would own 10 percent or more of our common stock after such purchase would be required to obtain the prior consent of Utah banking authorities and the federal banking authorities prior to consummating any such acquisition. These regulatory requirements may preclude or delay the purchase of a relatively large ownership stake by certain potential investors. Our stockholder rights plan could prevent you from receiving a premium over the market price for your shares of common stock from a potential acquirer. Our board of directors approved a stockholder rights plan, which entitles our stockholders to acquire shares of our common stock at a price equal to 50 percent of the then current market value in limited circumstances when a third party acquires 15 percent or more of our outstanding common stock or announces its intent to commence a tender offer for at least 15 percent of our common stock, in each case, in a transaction that our board of directors does not approve. The existence of these rights would significantly increase the cost of acquiring control of our Company without the support of our board of directors because, under these limited circumstances, all of our stockholders, other than the person or group who caused the rights to become exercisable, would become entitled to purchase shares of our common stock at a discount. The existence of the rights plan could therefore deter potential acquirers and thereby reduce the likelihood that our stockholders will receive a premium for their common stock in an acquisition. 15 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 