ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. We operate in an evolving industry that presents numerous risks. Many of these risks are beyond our control and are driven by factors that often cannot be predicted. Prospective purchasers of our securities should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below, as well as the other information appearing in this report, before making any investment in our securities. The following discussion highlights some of these risks: Risks Affecting Our Business Risks Related to the Company We have a limited operating history in the ethanol industry. We were formed in June of 2004 and our first ethanol plant, located in Shenandoah, Iowa, began operations in August 2007. However, we have no other history of operations as an ethanol producer. Our proposed operations are subject to all the risks inherent in the establishment of a new business enterprise. There is no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to complete the Superior plant and operate both of the plants. Even if we successfully meet these objectives, there is no assurance that we will be able to market the ethanol and distillers grains produced or operate the plants profitably. Our business success is dependent on unproven management. Prior to the formation of our Company, none of our officers and directors had any experience in the ethanol industry, with the exception of Wayne Hoovestol, our Chief Executive Officer who is also a director of the Company. However, his experience had been limited to that of board member and investor in other ethanol companies. During the past two and a half years, a great deal of knowledge concerning the ethanol industry has been acquired by our officers and directors. We have an experienced general manager and an experienced plant manager for our Shenandoah plant. We recently hired a plant manager for our Superior plant that also has ethanol industry experience. Currently we are recruiting additional personnel for our Superior plant. There is no assurance that we will be successful in attracting or retaining such individuals because of a limited number of individuals with expertise in the area and a competitive market with many new plants being constructed. Furthermore, we may have difficulty in attracting other competent personnel to relocate to Shenandoah or Superior in the event that such personnel are not available locally. Our failure to attract and retain such individuals would likely have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. We currently have nine directors. These individuals are experienced in business generally. Some have experience in governing and operating other companies in various industries, others in construction, one in oil and ethanol marketing, and one in operating truck lines, but only three of them have experience in organizing, building and operating an ethanol plant. It is also possible that one or more of our founding stockholders and/or initial directors may later become unable to serve, and we may be unable to recruit and retain suitable replacements. Our board of directors will have the exclusive right to make all decisions with respect to the management and operation of our business and our affairs. Investors will have no right to participate in the decisions of our board of directors or in the management of our operations. Investors will only be permitted to vote in a limited number of circumstances. Accordingly, any person acquiring securities is entrusting all aspects of our management to the board of directors. In addition, all members of our board of directors, including our Chief Executive Officer, are presently engaged in businesses and other activities outside of and in addition to our business. These other activities impose substantial demand on the time and attention of such directors. We have a history of operating losses and may never achieve profitable operations. At November 30, 2007, we had a significant accumulated deficit. We expect to incur significant losses at least until we complete construction and commence operations at our Superior plant. Even if we successfully meet all of these objectives and begin operations at our second ethanol plant, no assurance can be given that we will be able to operate profitably. 13 If our cash flow from operations is not sufficient to service our anticipated debts, then the business may fail and investors in our stock could lose their entire investment. Our ability to repay our current and anticipated additional debts will depend on our financial and operating performance and on our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. We can provide no assurance that we will be successful in implementing our strategy or in realizing our anticipated financial results. Our financial and operational performance depends on numerous factors including prevailing economic conditions, volatile commodity prices and certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. Our cash flows and capital resources may be insufficient to repay our anticipated debt obligations. If we cannot pay our debt service, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, restructure our indebtedness or seek additional capital. If we are unable to restructure our indebtedness or raise funds through sales of assets, equity or otherwise, our ability to operate could be harmed and the value of our common stock could decline significantly. The institutions lending funds to us hold a security interest in our assets, including the property and the plants. If we fail to make our debt service payments, the lenders will have the right to repossess the secured assets, including the property and the plants, in addition to other remedies. Such action would end our ability to continue operations. If we fail to make our financing payments and we cease operations, your rights as a holder of common stock are inferior to the rights of our creditors. We may not have sufficient assets to make any payments to you after we pay our creditors. It is also our intention to attempt to build other plants at other locations, to expand at the sites on which we do build, and/or to aggressively pursue the acquisition of existing plants. If we are successful in accomplishing our goals, we may have to borrow even greater amounts of capital to fund said growth and/or issue additional shares of our stock. This could leverage us even further and cause greater dilution to our existing shareholders. If our cash flows were to diminish for any reason and we were not able to service our debt or raise additional equity through further sales of our shares, our lenders could call our debt and the value of our shares could decline substantially and holders of our shares could lose all or part of their investment. Casualty losses may occur for which we have not secured adequate insurance. We have acquired insurance that we believe to be adequate to prevent loss from foreseeable risks. However, events occur for which no insurance is available or for which insurance is not available on terms that are acceptable to us. Loss from such an event, such as, but not limited to, earthquake, tornados, war, riot, terrorism or other risks, may not be insured and such a loss may have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. Risks Related to the Common Stock We have capitalized our company with substantial debt leverage, resulting in substantial debt service requirements that could reduce the value of our stock. We raised net proceeds of approximately $95.0 million in our equity offerings. Those funds have been used to build our first ethanol plant in Shenandoah, Iowa, and for the construction to date of our second ethanol plant in Superior, Iowa. In addition, we have loans which, when fully drawn, are expected to total approximately $101.0 million for the construction of the plants and to provide working capital for their operation. We believe with the equity raised in our public offerings and the loans from our lenders that we will have sufficient funds to complete the ethanol plants and meet related working capital requirements. However, based on our business risks, our capital structure will be highly leveraged. Our debt service requirements could have important consequences which could reduce the value of our common stock, including: · limiting our ability to borrow additional amounts for operating capital and other purposes or creating a situation in which such ability to borrow may be available on terms that are not favorable to us; · reducing funds available for operations and distributions because a substantial portion of our cash flow will be used to pay interest and principal on our debt; · making us vulnerable to increases in prevailing interest rates; · placing us at a competitive disadvantage because we may be substantially more leveraged than some of our competitors; · subjecting all, or substantially all of our assets to liens, which means that there will be virtually no assets left for stockholders in the event of a liquidation; and 14 · limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions, which could increase our vulnerability to a downturn in our business or general economic conditions. In the event that we are unable to pay our debt service obligations, we could be forced to: (a) reduce or eliminate dividends to stockholders, if they were to commence or (b) reduce or eliminate needed capital expenditures. It is possible that we could be forced to sell assets, seek to obtain additional equity capital or refinance or restructure all or a portion of our debt. In the event that we are unable to refinance our indebtedness or raise funds through asset sales, sales of equity or otherwise, our business would be adversely affected and we may be forced to liquidate, and investors could lose their entire investment. Our common stock is thinly traded. There is currently a publicly-traded market for our common stock. Our common shares trade on both the NASDAQ Capital Market and the American Stock Exchange. However, our shares are thinly traded and any investment made in our Company may be illiquid for an indefinite amount of time. For this reason, there are few institutional stockholders and we do not receive a significant amount of analyst coverage. Further, no assurance can be given that our shares will continue to be traded on these or any other exchange or market in the future. Our lenders require us to abide by certain restrictive loan covenants that may hinder our ability to operate and reduce our profitability. The loan agreements governing our secured debt financing contain a number of restrictive affirmative and negative covenants. These covenants limit our ability to, among other things: · incur additional indebtedness; · make capital expenditures in excess of prescribed thresholds; · pay dividends to stockholders; · make various investments; · create liens on our assets; · acquire other companies or operations; · utilize the proceeds of asset sales; or · merge or consolidate or dispose of all or substantially all of our assets. We are also required to maintain specified financial ratios, including minimum cash flow coverage, minimum working capital and minimum net worth. Our loan agreements require we utilize a portion of any excess cash flow generated by operations to prepay our term debt. A breach of any of these covenants or requirements could result in a default under our loan agreements. If we default, and if such default is not cured or waived, our lenders could, among other remedies, accelerate our debt and declare that such debt is immediately due and payable. If this occurs, we may not be able to repay such debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance. Even if new financing is available, it may not be on terms that are acceptable. Such an occurrence could cause us to cease building the Superior plant, or cease operations at our Shenandoah plant. No assurance can be given that our future operating results will be sufficient to achieve compliance with such covenants and requirements, o r in the event of a default, to remedy such default. The common stock may be diluted in value and will be subject to further dilution in value. As of November 30, 2007, we had outstanding 7,244,784 shares of common stock, warrants exercisable for 1,113,235 shares of common stock at exercise prices of between $30 and $60 per share and stock options exercisable for 448,000 shares of common stock at exercise prices of between $9.30 and $30 per share. We will also be issuing 551,065 shares of common stock as part of the merger with GLC. If for any reason we are required in the future to raise additional equity capital, if more warrants are exercised in the future, or if options of any kind or additional shares are issued to our officers and directors, or to other members of our management or employees, our current shareholders may suffer further dilution to their investment. There is no assurance that further dilution will not occur in the future. 15 Risks Related to Construction of the Superior Plant We are dependent on our design builder and technology provider for expertise in the commencement of operations at the Superior plant and any loss of these relationships, or failure to perform on their part, could hinder our ability to operate profitably and significantly decrease the value of your investment. We are highly dependent upon Agra Industries and Delta T, and their employees, who have experience in the construction, start-up and operation of ethanol plants, to design and build the Superior plant. Any loss of our relationship with Agra and/or Delta T, particularly during the construction and start-up period for the Superior plant, may have a material adverse impact on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. There are general risks and potential delays associated with such a project, including, but not limited to, fire, weather, permitting issues, and delays in the provision of materials or labor to the construction site. Although we are not aware of any parts needed to construct our Superior that may be backordered, we realize that certain parts for ethanol plants have become backordered from time to time and that we may not be able to get delivery of necessary parts in a timely manner. We believe that both Agra Industries and Delta T have entered in to other contracts to build ethanol plants for other owners, due to the rapid expansion taking place in the U.S. ethanol industry. There is a risk that Agra Industries and Delta T have taken on so much work that they might not be able to perform in a timely manner. Any significant delay in the planned completion date may have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. Although ethanol development continues across the country, there has been a significant decline in the number of new projects. Consequently, we could be exposed to risk if market conditions place our design builders and technology providers under substantial economic pressure. If our design builder and technology provider were to face financial difficulties, due to market conditions or any other reason, our ability to perform will be impeded, and such circumstances might have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. We may not be able to manage our start-up period effectively. We are approaching construction completion and operations start-up at our Superior ethanol plant. Although we have limited financial resources, we will need to implement operational, financial and management systems. We are currently hiring employees needed to operate the plant, and will need to train, motivate and manage our employees. Although we believe that we can effectively manage the start-up and properly staff and train employees for our operations, there is no assurance that this will occur, and any failure by us in either of these areas could have a material adverse effect on us, our financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and our ability to execute our business plan. We will depend on our technology provider for ongoing support services. We are highly dependent upon our technology provider for ongoing support services at the Superior plant. Our process technology is licensed. If the plant is built but does not operate to the level anticipated by us in our business plan, we will rely on our technology provider to adequately address such deficiencies. There is no assurance that they will be able to address such deficiencies in an acceptable manner. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. Construction delays could result in a delay in our commencement of operations and generation of revenue, if any, from our Superior plant. Our Superior plant is expected to begin operations in the spring of 2008. However, it could be later under the contract we have with Agra Industries. Construction projects often involve delays in obtaining permits, construction delays due to weather conditions, or other events that delay the construction schedule. In addition, changes in interest rates or the credit environment or changes in political administrations at the federal, state or local level that result in policy change towards ethanol or this project, could cause construction and operation delays. If it takes longer to obtain necessary permits or construct the plant in Superior than we anticipate, it would delay our ability to generate revenues at that location and make it difficult for us to meet our debt service obligations. This could reduce the value of our common stock and could negatively affect our ability to execute our plan of operation. 16 If there are defects in the Superior plant’s construction, it may negatively affect our ability to operate the plant. There is no assurance that defects in materials and/or workmanship in the Superior plant will not occur. Under the terms of the design-build contracts, our builders have warranted that the material and equipment furnished to build the plant would be new, of good quality, and free from material defects in material or workmanship at the time of delivery. Though the design-build contract requires our builder to correct all defects in material or workmanship for a period of one year after substantial completion of the plant, material defects in material or workmanship may still occur. Such defects could cause us to delay the commencement of operations of the Superior plant or, if such defects are discovered after operations have commenced, to halt or discontinue the plant’s operations. Any such event may have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. Any material variations to the actual cost verses our cost estimates relating to the construction and operation of the Superior plant could materially and adversely affect our ability to operate the plant profitably. Agra Industries is constructing the Superior plant at an estimated total cost of approximately $96.3 million, based on the plans and specifications in the design-build contract with Agra Industries, comprised of $79.6 million in plant construction costs and $16.7 million of other costs. These costs do not include approximately $8.0 million in working capital to purchase such things as corn, enzymes, denaturant, and natural gas at start-up and $0.8 million in pre-production period general and administrative costs. There is no assurance that there will not be design changes or cost overruns associated with the construction of the plants. Any significant increase in the estimated construction cost of the plants may have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. Risks Related to Ethanol Production Our ability to operate at a profit is largely dependent on prices of corn, natural gas, ethanol and distillers grains. Our operations and financial condition are significantly affected by the cost and supply of grain and natural gas and by the selling price for ethanol and distillers grains. Prices and supplies are subject to and determined by market forces over which we have no control. We are heavily dependent on the price and supply of corn. Although our plant sites are strategically located in high-yield, low-cost corn producing regions, there is no assurance of consistent and continued availability of feedstock. There is significant price pressure on local corn markets caused by nearby ethanol plants, livestock industries and other value-added enterprises. Additionally, the local corn supplies could be adversely affected by rising prices for alternative crops, increasing input costs, changes in government policies, shifts in global markets or damaging growing conditions such as plant disease, weather or drought. As a result of price volatility for these commodities, our operating results may fluctuate substantially. Based on recent forward prices of corn and ethanol, we may be operating our plants at low to possibly negative operating margins. Increases in corn prices or decreases in prices of ethanol or distillers grains prices may result in it being unprofitable to operate our plants. No assurance can be given that we will be able to purchase corn at prices anywhere near the historic averages of corn in Iowa; that we will be able to purchase natural gas at, or near, its current price; that we will be able to sell ethanol at, or near, current prices; or that we will be able to sell our distillers grains at, or near, current prices. Commodities prices have been extremely volatile in the past and are expected to be extremely volatile in the future, due to factors beyond our control, such as weather, domestic and global demand, shortages, export prices and vari ous governmental policies in the U.S. and around the world. We have been and anticipate continuing to purchase our corn from farmers in the areas surrounding the plants and in the cash market, and hedging corn through futures contracts or with options to reduce short-term exposure to price fluctuations. We may contract with third parties to manage our hedging activities and corn purchasing. Our purchasing and hedging activities may or may not lower our price of corn, and in a period of declining corn prices, these advance purchase and hedging strategies may result in our paying a higher price for corn than our competitors. Further, hedging for protection against the adverse changes in the price of corn may be unsuccessful, and could result in substantial losses to us. Generally, higher corn prices will produce lower profit margins. This is especially true since ethanol market conditions do not allow us to pass through increased corn costs to our customers. If a period of high corn prices were to be sustained for some time, such pricing may have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. 17 Our revenues will also be dependent on the market prices for ethanol and distillers grains. These prices can be volatile as a result of a number of factors. These factors include the overall supply and demand of ethanol, the price of gasoline, the level of government support, and the availability and price of competing products. For instance, the price of ethanol tends to increase as the price of gasoline increases, and the price of ethanol tends to decrease as the price of gasoline decreases. However, this relationship is continually changing based on market forces and may result in reduced competiveness of ethanol in the marketplace. Any lowering of gasoline prices will likely also lead to lower prices for ethanol and adversely affect our operating results We cannot provide any assurance that there will be sufficient demand for ethanol to support current ethanol prices. We believe that ethanol production is expanding rapidly at this time. To support this rapid expansion of the industry, domestic ethanol consumption must increase dramatically. Additionally, public opinion must be supportive of continued or increased mandates in order to maintain the preferred status of ethanol in public policy. The domestic market for ethanol is largely dictated by federal mandates for blending ethanol with gasoline. At present rate of expansion, it is probable that ethanol production will exceed levels set by federal mandate. Additionally, it is possible that ethanol production will exceed domestic blending capacity. Ethanol production from corn has not been without controversy. There have been questions of overall economic efficiency and sustainability, given the industrialized and energy-intensive nature of modern corn agriculture. Additionally, ethanol critics frequently cite the moral dilemma of redirecting corn supplies from international food markets to domestic fuel markets. The controversy surrounding corn ethanol is dangerous to the industry because ethanol demand is largely dictated by federal mandate. If public opinion were to erode, it is possible that the federal mandates will lose political support and the ethanol industry will be left without a market. Beyond the federal mandates, there are limited markets for ethanol. Discretionary blending is an important secondary market. However, consumer acceptance of E85 fuels and flexible-fuel technology vehicles is needed before there will be any significant growth in market share. International markets offer possible opportunities. Ethanol has foreseeable applications as an aviation or locomotive fuel. Limited markets also exist for use of ethanol as an antiseptic, antidote or base compound for further chemical processing. Unfortunately, all these additional markets are undeveloped. At present, we cannot provide any assurance that there will be any material or significant increase in the demand for ethanol beyond the increases in mandated gasoline blending. Increased production in the coming years is likely to lead to lower ethanol prices. Additionally, the increased production of ethanol could have other adverse effects as well. For example, the increased production could lead to increased supplies of by-products from the production of ethanol, such as distillers grains. Those increased supplies could lead to lower prices for those by-products. Also, the increased production of ethanol could result in a further increase in the demand for corn. This could result in higher prices for corn creating lower profits. There can be no assurance as to the price of ethanol, corn, or distillers grains in the future. Adverse changes affecting these prices may have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. We expect to compete with existing and future ethanol plants and oil companies, which may result in diminished returns on your investment. We operate in a very competitive environment. We compete with large, multi-product, multi-national companies that have much greater resources than we currently have or will have in the future. We may face competition for capital, labor, management, corn and other resources. There is clearly a consolidation trend in the ethanol industry. As a result, firms are growing in size and scope. Larger firms offer efficiencies and economies of scale, resulting in lower costs of production. Absent significant growth and diversification, we might not be able to operate profitably in a more competitive environment. No assurance can be given that we will be able to compete successfully or that such competition will not have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. At present, the ethanol industry is primarily comprised of firms that engage exclusively in ethanol production. Oil companies, petrochemical refiners and gasoline retailers are not engaged in ethanol production to a large extent. These companies, however, form the primary distribution networks for marketing ethanol through blended gasoline. If these companies seek to engage in direct ethanol production, there will be less of a need to buy ethanol from independent ethanol producers. Such a structural change in the market could result in a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. 18 We are dependent on third-party brokers to sell our product which may reduce our ability to compete. We currently have no sales force or distribution channel to market ethanol. Although we are exploring alternative marketing strategies, we are currently dependent on third-party brokers. We are under contract to sell our ethanol through RPMG, who pools ethanol from independent producers to capture efficiencies and economies of scale. If RPMG breaches the contract or does not have the ability (for financial or other reasons) to purchase all of the ethanol we produce, we will not have any readily available means to market our ethanol. Our lack of an independent marketing program and reliance on third parties to market ethanol may place us at a competitive disadvantage. Our failure to sell all of our ethanol and distillers grains may have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance Similarly, we are heavily dependent on third-party brokers to market our by-product distillers grains. In limited circumstances, we market WDGS and MWDG locally. However, the majority of our by-product, distillers grains, are marketed by CHS Inc. If, for any reason, CHS Inc. cannot or does not market our distillers grains, we lack an independent marketing program for selling the by-product. Our inability to independently market distillers gains may have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. Markets for distillers grains depend on its continued use as animal feed The primary use of distillers grains is animal fodder or feed additive. In recent months, Escherichia coli (E. coli) outbreaks in beef cattle have been attributed to use of distillers grains as a cattle feed. At present, there is no conclusive causal relationship between E. coli and distillers grains. However, despite the current lack of scientific evidence, this continued controversy could have an adverse impact on distillers grains markets. Any connection, whether based on scientific evidence or popular opinion, between distillers grains and E. coli could have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. Engaging in hedging activities to minimize the potential volatility of corn prices could result in substantial costs and expenses. In an attempt to minimize the effects of the volatility of corn and natural gas costs on operating profits, we have taken hedging positions in the corn and natural gas futures markets and will likely take additional hedging positions in these commodities the future. Hedging means protecting the price at which we buy corn and the price at which we will sell our products in the future. It is a way to attempt to reduce the risk caused by price fluctuation. The effectiveness of such hedging activities is dependent upon, among other things, the cost of corn and natural gas and our ability to sell sufficient amounts of ethanol and distillers grains. Although we will attempt to link hedging activities to sales plans and pricing activities, such hedging activities can themselves result in costs because price movements in corn contracts and natural gas are highly volatile and are influenced by many factors that are beyond our control. Our ability to successfully operate is dependent on the availability of energy and water at anticipated prices. The plants will require a significant and uninterrupted supply of electricity, natural gas and water to operate. There is no assurance that we can continue to secure an adequate supply of energy or water to support plant operations. If there is an interruption in the supply of energy or water for any reason, such as supply, delivery or mechanical problems, we may be required to halt production. If production is halted for an extended period of time, it may have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. We have entered into an agreement with U.S. Energy Services, Inc., to negotiate and purchase natural gas and secure related natural gas pipeline capacity for our plants from third-party providers. There can be no assurance given that we or U.S. Energy Services will be able to obtain a sufficient supply of natural gas for our plants or that we will be able to procure alternative sources of natural gas on acceptable terms. Higher natural gas prices may have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. We will also need to purchase significant amounts of electricity to operate the plants. Currently, our plants do not have an onsite electric generation capability to support plant operations. All electricity must be purchased from third-party electric utilities. We have negotiated an agreement with MidAmerican Energy to supply electricity to the plant in Shenandoah for a period of five years. No assurance can be given that we will be able to negotiate contract extensions at favorable rates after the five year period is over. We have entered into an agreement with the Iowa Lakes Electric Cooperative and the Corn Belt Cooperative to supply electricity to the Superior plant. Electricity prices have historically fluctuated significantly. Sustained increases in the price of electricity in the future would increase our cost of production. As a result, these issues may have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. 19 Sufficient availability and quality of water are important requirements to produce ethanol. We anticipate that water requirements at each plant will be approximately 400 to 800 gallons per minute, depending on the quality of the water at our plants. We believe the City of Shenandoah has sufficient capacities of water to meet our needs and we have negotiated a contract with the city to supply water to the plant at a price that we believe is favorable to our operations. However, no assurance can be given that a prolonged drought could not diminish the water supplies in the areas of the Shenandoah plant, or that we would continue to have sufficient water supplies in the future. The City of Shenandoah drilled a well to augment the grey water that is going to the plant. We anticipate obtaining our water supply for the Superior ethanol plant from two wells on the site. If a drought were to occur, we may have to purchase water from other sources, suc h as the local rural water company, which would cost more. If we ever had to do this, it may have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance and could even cause us to cease production for periods of time. Risk of foreign competition from producers who can produce ethanol at less expensive prices than it can be produced from corn in the United States. There is an increased risk of foreign competition in the ethanol industry. At present, there is a $0.54 per gallon tariff on foreign ethanol. However, this tariff might not be sufficient to deter overseas producers from importing ethanol into the domestic marketing, resulting in depressed ethanol prices. It is also important to note that the tariff on foreign ethanol is the subject of ongoing controversy and disagreement amongst lawmakers. Many lawmakers attribute growth in the ethanol industry to increases in food prices. They see foreign competition in ethanol production as a means of controlling food prices. Additionally, the tariff on ethanol has sparked international criticism because it diverts corn from export and prevents Latin American agricultural development. Foreign competitors are likely to have lower input, energy and labor costs. International feedstocks might be less costly and more sustainable than corn. Additionally, the bulk of the domestic ethanol market is located on the coasts. It is possible that it could be cheaper to import foreign ethanol via tanker than transport our ethanol to coastal markets via rail or truck. The primary source of foreign competition is Brazil, which is the world’s second largest producer after the U.S. Brazil produces ethanol from sugarcane, which as a feedstock costs about 30% to 40% less than corn. Additionally, in comparison to the U.S., the Brazilian ethanol industry is more mature and more fully developed. Much of the industrial infrastructure that the U.S. is lacking is already in place in Brazil. If significant additional foreign ethanol production capacity is created, such facilities could create excess supplies of ethanol on world markets which may result in lower prices of ethanol throughout the world, including the U.S. We believe that an increased supply of ethanol in world markets may be mitigated to some extent by increased ethanol demand, due in part to higher oil prices. Such foreign competition is a risk to our business. Further, if the tariff on foreign ethanol is ever lifted, overturned, expired, repealed or reduced, our ability to profitably compete with low-cost international producers is questionable. Any penetration of ethanol imports into the domestic market may have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. Replacement technologies are under development that might result in product or process system obsolescence Ethanol is primarily an additive and oxygenate for blended gasoline. Although use is currently mandated, there is always the possibility that a preferred alternative product will emerge and eclipse the current market. Critics of ethanol blends argue that ethanol decreases fuel economy, causes corrosion of ferrous components and damages fuel pumps. Any alternative oxygenate product would likely be a form of alcohol (like ethanol) or ether (like MTBE). Prior to federal restrictions and ethanol mandates, MTBE was the dominant oxygenate. It is possible that other ether products could enter the market and prove to be environmentally or economically superior to ethanol. More likely, it is possible that alternative biofuel alcohols such as methanol and butanol could evolve into ethanol replacement products. Such development an ethanol replacement product may have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. 20 Even if ethanol remains the dominant additive and oxygenate, technological innovation could have a profound impact on the corn ethanol system. The development of cellulosic ethanol obtained from other sources of biomass such as switchgrass or fast growing poplar trees could ultimately displace corn ethanol production. Federal policies suggest a long-term political preference for cellulosic processes using alternative feedstocks such as switchgrass, silage, wood chips or other forms biomass. Cellulosic ethanol has a smaller carbon footprint because the feedstock does not require energy-intensive fertilizers and industrial production processes. Additionally, cellulosic ethanol is favored because it is unlikely that foodstuff is being diverted from the market. Several cellulosic ethanol plants are under development. At present, it is unlikely that cellulose is an economically-viable alternative to corn. However, if research and development progra ms persist, there is the risk that cellulosic ethanol could displace corn ethanol at some point in the future. Although there are probably opportunities to incorporate cellulosic processes into our existing corn ethanol plants, it must be acknowledged that innovation in cellulose might have an adverse impact on our enterprises. Our plants are designed as single-feedstock facilities. Additionally, our plants are strategically located in high-yield, low-cost corn production areas. At present, there is limited supply of alternative feedstocks near our facilities. There is limited ability to adapt the plants to a different feedstock or process system without substantial reinvestment and retooling. Our ethanol plants use ICM and Delta T process technologies in Shenandoah and Superior, respectively. These process technologies are industry standards. However, they use significant amounts of energy. There is the possibility that new process technologies will emerge that require less energy. The development of such process technologies would result in lower production costs. Our process technologies may become outdated and obsolete, placing us a competitive disadvantage against competitors in the industry. The development of replacement technologies may have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. Risks Related to Conflicts of Interest We have conflicts of interest with our design builders and technology providers which could result in loss of capital and reduced financial performance. Our Company is and will continue to be advised by one or more employees or associates of our design builders and technology providers. Our design builders and technology providers are expected to continue to be involved in substantially all material aspects of our plant construction and operations for some time. Some of our design builder and technology providers have an ownership interest in us. Consequently, the terms and conditions of our agreements and understandings with them may not have been negotiated at arm’s length. Therefore, there is no assurance that our arrangements with such parties are as favorable to us as could have been if obtained from unaffiliated third parties. In addition, because of the extensive role that they are expected to have in the construction and operation of the plants, it may be difficult or impossible for us to enforce claims that we may have against them, if such things were to arise. If this were to occur, it may have a materi al adverse impact on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. Our design builders and technology providers and their affiliates may also have conflicts of interest because employees or agents of our design builders and technology providers are involved as owners, creditors and in other capacities with other ethanol plants in the United States. We cannot require design builders and technology providers to devote their full time or attention to our activities Though we will attempt to address actual or potential material conflicts of interest as they arise or become known, we have not established any formal procedures to address or resolve conflicts of interest. There is no assurance that any conflict of interest will not have adverse consequences to our operations, cash flows and financial performance. Risks Related to Regulation and Governmental Action The loss of favorable tax benefits for ethanol production could adversely affect the market for ethanol. The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 created the volumetric ethanol excise tax credit (“VEETC”). Referred to as the blender’s credit, VEETC provides companies with a tax credit to blend ethanol with gasoline totaling 51 cents per gallon of pure ethanol, or approximately 5.1 cents per gallon for E10 and 43 cents per gallon on E85. VEETC expires on December 31, 2010. Continuation of the VEETC was not included in the Energy Act of 2007. It is unlikely that the VEETC will be renewed at its current level, if at all. The elimination or reduction of VEETC or other federal tax incentives to the ethanol industry would have a material adverse impact on our business by making it more costly or difficult for us to produce and sell ethanol. 21 Our inability to obtain required regulatory permits and/or approvals will impede our ability and may prohibit completely our ability to successfully operate the plants. We are subject to extensive air, water and other environmental regulation. We have had to obtain a number of environmental permits to construct and operate the plants. Ethanol production involves the emission of various airborne pollutants, including particulate (PM10), carbon dioxide (CO²), oxides of nitrogen (N0x) and volatile organic compounds. As a result, we obtained air quality permits from the Iowa Department of Natural Resources (“IDNR”). We believe we have obtained the permits necessary for operation of the Shenandoah plant and to commence construction at the Superior plant, including our air permits. However, we still need to apply for and obtain certain other permits before we can commence operations at the Superior plant. We anticipate that we will be able to obtain these permits before the times that they will be needed. However, if for any reason any of these permits are not granted, construction costs for the Superior plants may increase. In addition, the IDNR could impose conditions or other restrictions in the permits that are detrimental to us or which increase costs to us above those assumed in this project. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. A change in environmental and safety regulations or violations thereof could impede our ability to successfully operate the plants. We may also be subject to changes in environmental regulations. Currently the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) rules and regulations do not require us to obtain separate EPA approval in connection with construction and operation of the plants. Additionally, environmental laws and regulations, both at the federal and state level, are subject to change and changes can be made retroactively. It is possible that more stringent federal or state environmental rules or regulations could be adopted, which could increase our operating costs and expenses. Consequently, even if we have the proper permits at the present time, we may be required to invest or spend considerable resources to comply with future environmental regulations. Furthermore, plant operations are governed by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”). OSHA regulations may change such that the costs of operations at the plants may increase. If any of these events were to occur, they may have a material adverse impact on our operations, cash flows and financial performance. The loss of favorable government usage mandates affecting ethanol production could adversely affect the market for ethanol. Federal law, most notably the Energy Act of 2007, requires the use of oxygenated gasoline. If these mandates are repealed, the market for domestic ethanol would be diminished significantly. Federal and state mandates and incentives may be modified in the future. The revocation or amendment of any one or more of those laws, regulations or programs could adversely affect the future use of ethanol in a material way. For example, changes in the environmental regulations regarding the required oxygen content of automobile emissions could have an adverse effect on the ethanol industry. The elimination or reduction of federal and state mandates and incentives would have a material adverse impact on our business by potentially reducing the demand for ethanol. We cannot assure you that any of those laws, regulations or programs will continue. Any of these regulatory factors may result in higher costs or other materially adverse conditions effecting our operations, cash flows an d financial performance. Additionally, flexible-fuel vehicles receive preferential treatment in meeting CAFE standards. High blend ethanol fuels such as E85 result in lower fuel efficiencies. Absent the CAFE preferences, it is unlikely that flexible-fuel vehicles could meet standards. Any change in these CAFE preferences could reduce growth of E85 markets and result in lower ethanol prices. Risks Relating to the Business Combination with GLC The Company and GLC may not be successful in their efforts to complete the merger. The closing of the merger is subject to various conditions and contingencies. There can be no assurance that all merger closing requirements will be satisfied. A necessary part of our combined plan of operations is the receipt of significant debt funding, of which there can be no assurance. 22 We will be required to pay $12.5 million in funds to GLC members at closing. In addition, GLC’s operations require significant working capital for seasonal inventory and receivable levels. Although we have held initial discussions with potential lenders, we presently do not have a committed debt facility in place necessary to make this payment or finance required working capital. We believe we will secure the necessary debt financing under acceptable terms. However, the debt financing may involve significant restrictive covenants and costs. Although we do not anticipate the issuance of additional equity in conjunction with this financing, any additional equity financing required would be dilutive to shareholders. Failure or inability to raise the required capital will result in our proposed merger with GLC failing. There can be no assurance such financing will be available on terms satisfactory to us, if at all. The merger with GLC may be difficult to integrate, divert the attention of key personnel, disrupt our business, and adversely affect our financial results. The GLC merger involves numerous risks, any of which could harm our business, including: · difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, products, existing contracts, accounting processes and personnel of GLC and realizing the anticipated synergies of the combined businesses; · risks relating to developing the infrastructure needed to integrate GLC’s operations; · difficulties in supporting and transitioning customers of GLC; · diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; · the price we pay or other resources that we devote may exceed the value we realize, or the value we could have realized if we had allocated the purchase price or other resources to another opportunity; · risks of entering new markets or areas in which we have limited or no experience, or are outside our core competencies; · potential loss of key employees, customers and strategic alliances from either our current business or the business of GLC; · risks relating to unknown environmental hazards on the GLC’s properties; · assumption of unanticipated problems or latent liabilities associated with GLC; and · inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset acquisition costs and development costs. Mergers and acquisitions also frequently result in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets which are subject to potential impairments, periodic amortization, or both that could harm our financial results. As a result, if we fail to properly evaluate the GLC acquisition, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate. The failure to successfully evaluate and execute the GLC acquisition, or otherwise adequately address these risks, could materially harm our business and financial results. Risks Affecting the Business of GLC The operation of new ethanol plants in GLC’s trade territory could substantially reduce the volume of corn that it buys and merchandises, which would adversely affect the operating income of its Grain Division. GLC’s largest single source of operating income is from buying corn and soybeans from producers and share-crop landlords, drying and storing these grain products, and merchandising them to various purchasers. Three ethanol plants are currently operating within or near GLC’s trade territory at Albert City, Ashton, and Emmetsburg. Three additional ethanol plants are under construction within or near GLC’s trade territory at Hartley, and Superior, Iowa (which is our ethanol plant that is currently under construction) and at Welcome, Minnesota. In addition, another ethanol operator has announced its intention to construct an ethanol plant at Fairmont, Minnesota. If all of these ethanol plants are eventually constructed and operated at full capacity, we believe they would buy approximately 206 million bushels of corn each year. This compares to approximately 18 million bushels of corn GLC merchandized during its 2007 fiscal year. 23 The significant capital costs of an ethanol plant and the high costs of temporarily shutting down an ethanol plant provide strong incentives for these plants to be continuously operated, even during periods of high corn prices relative to the price of ethanol. As a result, the operators of ethanol plants often are willing to buy the corn necessary to maintain production at prices that may exceed the prices being paid by other corn end-users. In contrast, GLC is limited in the price that it can pay for corn by the prices at which it can sell the corn to various buyers. This disparity in corn pricing may result in GLC being unable to profitably buy corn during certain periods, which would reduce the annual volume of corn and its operating profits. GLC may also be forced to pay higher prices for corn in order to fulfill contractual grain delivery obligations, resulting in a loss on the purchase and resale of corn or a reduction in the profit marg in on such corn. It is impossible to predict the impact of the operation of these ethanol plants within or near GLC’s trade territory on GLC’s profitability since there is no comparable historical experience. The markets for GLC’s products are highly competitive. Competitive pressures in all of GLC’s businesses could affect the price of and customer demand for its products, thereby negatively impacting its profit margins and resulting in a loss of market share. In addition to the special risks from the ethanol industry discussed above, GLC’s grain business also competes with other grain merchandisers, grain processors and end-users for the purchase of grain, as well as with other grain merchandisers, private elevator operators and cooperatives for the sale of grain. Many of GLC’s competitors are significantly larger and compete in more diverse markets. GLC’s ability to effectively operate would be impaired if it fails to attract and retain key personnel. GLC’s ability to operate its business and implement its strategies effectively depends, in part, on the efforts of its executive officers and other key employees. Its management team has significant industry experience and would be difficult to replace. These individuals possess sales, marketing, financial, risk management and administrative skills that are critical to the operation of its business. In addition, the market for employees with the required technical expertise to succeed in GLC’s business is highly competitive and it may be unable to attract and retain qualified personnel to replace key employees should the need arise. The loss of the services of any of GLC’s key employees or the failure to attract or retain other qualified personnel could impair its ability to operate and make it difficult to execute its internal growth strategies, thereby adversely affecting its business. Disruption or difficulties with GLC’s information technology could impair its ability to operate its business. GLC’s business depends on its effective and efficient use of information technology. A disruption or failure of these systems could cause system interruptions, delays in production and a loss of critical data that could severely affect its ability to conduct normal business operations. GLC’s pension plan is subject to changes in laws and assumptions which could have a significant impact on the necessary cash flows needed to fund this plan, and introduce volatility into the annual expense of this plan. GLC could be impacted by a rise in the cost of pension and other post-retirement benefits. It may be required to make cash contributions to the extent necessary to comply with minimum funding requirements under applicable law, which may change in the future. These cash flows are dependent on various assumptions used to calculate such amounts, including discount rates, long-term return on plan assets, salary increases, health care cost trend rates and other factors. These cash flows are also dependent on the future investment experience of the plan. Changes to any of these assumptions, or variance between assumed and actual investment experience, could have a significant impact on these estimates and the required annual pension contributions. GLC may not be able to maintain sufficient insurance coverage. GLC’s business operations entail a number of risks, including property damage, business interruption and liability coverage. It maintains insurance for certain of these risks, including property insurance, worker’s compensation insurance, business interruption, general liability and other insurance. There is no guarantee that such insurance will be available on a cost-effective basis in the future. In addition, although GLC’s insurance is designed to protect it against losses attributable to certain events, coverage may not be adequate to cover all such losses. 24 GLC’s business may be adversely affected by conditions beyond its control, including weather conditions, political developments, disruptions in transportation, and international petroleum risks. Many of GLC’s business activities are dependent on weather conditions. Weather risks may result in: (a) a reduction in the sales of fertilizer and pesticides caused by too much rain during application periods, (b) a reduction in grain harvests caused by too little or too much rain during the growing season, (c) a reduction in grain harvests caused by too much rain or an early freeze during the harvest season, and (d) damage to corn stored on an open pile caused by too much rain and warm weather before the corn is dried, shipped, consumed or moved into a storage structure. National and international political developments subject GLC’s business to a variety of security risks, including bio-terrorism, and other terrorist threats to data security and physical loss to its facilities. In order to protect itself against these risks and stay current with new government legislation and regulatory actions, GLC may need to incur significant costs. No level of regulatory compliance can guarantee that security threats will never occur. If there were a disruption in available transportation due to natural disaster, strike or other factors, GLC may be unable to get raw materials inventory to its facilities, product to its customers, or ship grain to market. This could disrupt GLC’s operations and cause it to be unable to meet its customers’ needs or fulfill its contractual grain delivery obligations. The international nature of petroleum production, import restrictions, embargoes and refining capacity limitations could severely impact the availability of petroleum products causing severe economic hardship on the performance of GLC’s Petroleum Division. Many of GLC’s business lines are affected by the supply and demand of commodities, and are sensitive to factors outside of its control. Adverse price movements could adversely affect its profitability and results of operations. GLC buys, sells and holds inventories of various commodities, some of which are readily traded on commodity futures exchanges. Weather, economic, political, environmental and technological conditions and developments, both local and worldwide, as well as other factors beyond GLC’s control, can affect the supply and demand of these commodities and expose it to liquidity pressures due to rapidly rising or falling market prices. Changes in the supply and demand of these commodities can also affect the value of inventories held by GLC, as well as the price of raw materials. Increased costs of inventory and prices of raw materials could decrease profit margins and adversely affect profitability. While GLC hedges the majority of its grain inventory positions with derivative instruments to manage risk associated with commodity price changes, including purchase and sale contracts, it is unable to hedge 100% of the price risk of each transaction due to timing, unavailability of hedge contracts counterparties, and third party credit risk. Furthermore, there is a risk that the derivatives GLC employs will not be effective in offsetting the changes associated with the risks it is trying to manage. This can happen when the derivative and the hedged item are not perfectly matched. GLC’s grain derivatives, for example, do not hedge the basis pricing component of its grain inventory and contracts. (Basis is defined as the difference between the cash price of a commodity in a GLC facility and the nearest in time exchange-traded futures price.) Differences can reflect time periods, locations or product forms. Although the basis component is smaller and generally less volatile than the futures component of grain market price, significant unfavorable basis movement on a grain position as large as GLC’s can significantly impact its profitability. In addition, GLC does not hedge non-grain commodities. Since GLC buys and sells commodity derivatives on registered and non-registered exchanges, its derivatives are subject to margin calls. If there is a significant movement in the derivatives market, GLC could incur a significant amount of liabilities, which would impact its liquidity and its interest expense. There is no assurance that that the efforts GLC takes to mitigate the impact of the volatility of the prices of commodities will be successful, and any sudden change in the price of these commodities could have an adverse affect on liquidity and profitability. Many of GLC’s business segments operate in highly regulated industries. Changes in government regulations or trade association policies could adversely affect our results of operations. Many of GLC’s business segments are subject to government regulation and regulation by certain private sector associations, compliance with which can impose significant costs on its business. Failure to comply with such regulations can result in additional costs, fines or criminal action. 25 Grain production and trade flows are affected by government actions. Production levels, markets and prices of the grains GLC merchandises are affected by federal government programs, which include acreage control and price support programs of the United States Department of Agriculture (“USDA”). In addition, grain sold by GLC must conform to official grade standards imposed by the USDA. Other examples of government policies that can have an impact on GLC’s business include tariffs, duties, subsidies, import and export restrictions and outright embargos. Changes in government policies and producer supports may impact the amount and type of grains planted, which in turn, may impact GLC’s ability to buy grain in its market region. Because a portion of GLC’s grain sales are to exporters, the imposition of export restrictions could limit its sales opportunities. GLC handles potentially hazardous materials in its businesses. If environmental requirements become more stringent or if GLC experiences unanticipated environmental hazards, it could be subject to significant costs and liabilities. A significant part of GLC’s business is regulated by environmental laws and regulations, including those governing the labeling, use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous materials. Because GLC uses and handles hazardous substances in its businesses, changes in environmental requirements or an unanticipated significant adverse environmental event could have a material adverse effect on its business. There is no assurance that GLC has been, or will at all times be, in compliance with all environmental requirements, or that it will not incur material costs or liabilities in connection with these requirements. Private parties, including current and former employees, could bring personal injury or other claims against GLC due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances used, stored or disposed of by GLC, or contained in its products. GLC is also exposed to residual risk because some of the facilities and land which it has acquired may have environ mental liabilities arising from their prior use. In addition, changes to environmental regulations may require GLC to modify its existing plant and processing facilities and could significantly increase the cost of those operations. GLC relies on a limited number of suppliers for its products, and the loss of one or several of these suppliers could increase its costs and have a material adverse effect on its business. GLC relies on a limited number of suppliers for its products. If it is unable to obtain these raw materials and products from its current vendors, or if there were significant increases in its suppliers’ prices, it could disrupt operations, thereby significantly increasing its costs and reducing profit margins. GLC’s substantial indebtedness could adversely affect its financial condition, decrease its liquidity and impair its ability to operate. GLC is dependent on a significant amount of debt to fund its operations and contractual commitments. This indebtedness could interfere with its ability to operate its business. For example, it could: · limit its ability to obtain additional financing, which could impact its ability to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general needs, as well as limit its flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in its business and restrict it from making strategic acquisitions, investing in new products or capital assets and taking advantage of business opportunities; · require it to dedicate a substantial portion of cash flows from operating activities to payments on its indebtedness, which would reduce the cash flows available for other uses; and · place it at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors with less debt. If cash on hand is insufficient to pay its obligations or margin calls as they come due at a time when GLC is unable to draw on its credit facility, this could have an effect on its ability to conduct business. GLC’s ability to make payments on and to refinance its indebtedness will depend on its ability to generate cash in the future. Its ability to generate cash is dependent on various factors. These factors include general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond its control. Certain of its long-term borrowings include provisions that impose minimum levels of working capital and equity, impose limitations on additional debt and require that grain inventory positions be substantially hedged. GLC’s ability to satisfy these provisions can be affected by events beyond its control, such as the demand for and fluctuating price of grain. Noncompliance with these loan covenants could result in default and accelera tion of long-term debt payments. 26 Unidentified Risks The foregoing discussion is not a complete list or explanation of the risks involved with an investment in this business. Additional risks will likely be experienced that are not presently foreseen by us. Investors are not to construe this report as constituting legal or tax advice. Before making any decision to invest in us, investors should read this entire report, including all of its exhibits, and consult with their own investment, legal, tax and other professional advisors. An investor should be aware that we will assert that the investor consented to the risks and the conflicts of interest described or inherent in this report if the investor brings a claim against us or any of our directors, officers, managers, employee, advisors, agents or representatives. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None 