ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business and operations are subject to many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face, as our business and operations may also be subject to risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently believe are immaterial. If any of the events or circumstances described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow could be materially and adversely affected and the trading price of our common stock could decline. The following risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information contained herein, including the consolidated financial statements and the related notes. Unless the context requires otherwise, "we," "us" and "our" refer to Lucas Energy, Inc. and its subsidiary. In addition, please read “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” in this filing, where we describe additional uncertainties associated with our business and the forward-looking statements included or incorporated by reference in this filing. Our securities should only be purchased by persons who can afford to lose their entire investment in us. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and other information in this filing before deciding to become a holder of our securities. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business and financial results could be negatively affected to a significant extent. Risks Relating to Our Business Crude oil and natural gas prices are highly volatile in general and low prices will negatively affect our financial results. Our revenues, operating results, profitability, cash flow, future rate of growth and ability to borrow funds or obtain additional capital, as well as the carrying value of our oil and gas properties, are substantially dependent upon prevailing prices of crude oil and natural gas. Lower crude oil and natural gas prices also may reduce the amount of crude oil and natural gas that we can produce economically. Historically, the markets for crude oil and natural gas have been very volatile, and such markets are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. Prices for crude oil and natural gas are subject to wide fluctuation in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for crude oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, including: worldwide and domestic supplies of crude oil and natural gas; the level of consumer product demand; weather conditions and natural disasters; domestic and foreign governmental regulations; the price and availability -6- of alternative fuels; political instability or armed conflict in oil producing regions; the price and level of foreign imports; and overall domestic and global economic conditions. It is extremely difficult to predict future crude oil and natural gas price movements with any certainty. Declines in crude oil and natural gas prices may materially adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity, ability to finance planned capital expenditures and results of operations. Further, oil and gas prices do not move in tandem. We have a limited operating history, and we may not be able to operate profitably in the near future, if at all. We commenced our operations in 2006. We have a limited operating history and businesses such as ours, which are starting up or in their initial stages of development present substantial business and financial risks and may suffer significant losses from which they cannot recover. We will face all of the challenges of a small microcap or nano-cap oil and natural gas company that operates in a highly competitive industry, including but not limited to: locating, acquiring and successfully developing oil and gas properties; raising financing to fund our capital expenditure program; attracting, engaging and retaining the services of qualified management, technical and support personnel; establishing budgets and maintaining internal operating policies and procedures; and the design and implementation of effective financial and disclosure controls to meet public company statutory compliance requirements. We can provide no assurance that we will achieve a level of profitability that will provide a return on invested capital or that will result in an increase in the market value of our securities. Accordingly, we are subject to the risk that, because of these factors and other general business risks noted throughout these “Risk Factors,” we may, in particular, not be able to profitably execute our plan of operation. We require financing to execute our business plan and fund capital program requirements. We believe that our current cash reserves, together with anticipated cash flow from operations, proceeds from sales of properties and funding provided by joint venture partners, will be sufficient to meet our working capital and operating needs for approximately the next twelve months. However, to continue growth and to fund our business and expansion plans, we will require additional financing. The amount of capital available to us is limited, and may not be sufficient to enable us to fully execute our growth plans without additional fund raising. Additional financing may be required to meet our desired growth and strategic objectives and to provide more working capital for expanding our development and marketing capabilities and to achieve our ultimate plan of expansion and a larger scale of operations. Moving forward, we hope to pursue joint venture partners for certain of our capital program funding requirements, which if successful will decrease the total funding we are required to commit to such programs. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional financing on attractive terms, if at all. We have no firm commitments for additional cash funding as of the date of this report. We do not intend to pay cash dividends to our shareholders. We do not currently intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends at any time in the foreseeable future. At present, we will follow a policy of retaining all of our earnings, if any, to finance development and expansion of our business. We face intense competition. We are in direct competition for properties with numerous oil and natural gas companies, drilling and income programs and partnerships exploring various areas of Texas and elsewhere. Many competitors are large, well-known oil and gas and/or energy companies, although no single entity dominates the industry. Many of our competitors possess greater financial and personnel resources enabling them to identify and acquire more economically desirable energy producing properties and drilling prospects than us. Additionally, there is competition from other fuel choices to supply the energy needs of consumers and industry. Management believes that a viable marketplace exists for smaller producers of natural gas and crude oil. The $22 million note payable in connection with the Nordic 1 acquisition is secured by a security interest solely in the assets acquired from Nordic 1. On October 13, 2011, Lucas entered into a purchase and sale agreement with Nordic 1, with an effective date of July 1, 2011, to purchase all of Nordic 1’s interests in certain oil, gas and mineral leases, rights and assets located in Gonzales, Karnes and Wilson Counties, Texas, which represent all of Nordic 1's interests in the existing two capital programs operated by Lucas (the “Nordic 1 Transaction”). The Nordic 1 Transaction closed in November 2011 and Lucas paid $22 million to Nordic 1 in the form of a non-recourse senior secured promissory note. The note bears -7- interest at 6% per annum and is due and payable on or before November 17, 2012. As of March 31, 2012, $22 million was outstanding under the note. We do not currently have sufficient cash on hand to repay the note payable. If we default in the repayment of the note payable at maturity, Nordic 1 may seek to enforce its security interest over the assets acquired in the Nordic 1 Transaction, which secure the repayment of such note. Nordic 1 may seek to enforce its security interest by retaking full or partial ownership and control of the assets securing the note payable in an attempt to recover any deficiency between the value of the secured assets and the then amount owed in connection with such note payable, which pursuant to the terms of the note is Nordic 1’s sole recourse in the event that we default under the terms of the note. If we lose ownership of and right to the assets acquired and our total assets, results of operations and revenues may be adversely affected from the loss of such assets. Consequently, the value of our securities may decline in value. If we acquire crude oil and natural gas properties in the future, our failure to fully identify existing and potential problems, to accurately estimate reserves, production rates or costs, or to effectively integrate the acquired properties into our operations could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, we seek to acquire crude oil and natural gas properties. Although we perform reviews of properties to be acquired in a manner that we believe is duly diligent and consistent with industry practices, reviews of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, and may not permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties in order to fully assess their deficiencies and potential. Even when problems with a property are identified, we may assume environmental and other risks and liabilities in connection with acquired properties pursuant to the acquisition agreements. Moreover, there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of crude oil and natural gas reserves (as discussed further below), actual future production rates and associated costs with respect to acquired properties. Actual reserves, production rates and costs may vary substantially from those assumed in our estimates. There can be no assurance that we will be able to locate or make suitable acquisitions on acceptable terms or that future acquisitions will be effectively and profitably integrated into the Company. Acquisitions involve risks that could divert management resources and/or result in the possible loss of key employees and customers of the acquired operations. For the reasons above, among others, an acquisition may have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations, particularly during the periods in which the operations of the acquired properties are being integrated into our ongoing operations or if we are unable to effectively integrate the acquired properties into our ongoing operations. We depend significantly upon the continued involvement of our present management. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the involvement of our management, who are in charge of our strategic planning and operations. We may need to attract and retain additional talented individuals in order to carry out our business objectives. The competition for such persons could be intense and there are no assurances that these individuals will be available to us. Our business is subject to extensive regulation. As many of our activities are subject to federal, state and local regulation, and as these rules are subject to constant change or amendment, there can be no assurance that our operations will not be adversely affected by new or different government regulations, laws or court decisions applicable to our operations. Government regulation and liability for environmental matters may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Crude oil and natural gas operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local government regulations, which may be changed from time to time. Matters subject to regulation include discharge permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds, reports concerning operations, the spacing of wells, unitization and pooling of properties and taxation. From time to time, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on production by restricting the rate of flow of crude oil and natural gas wells below actual production capacity in order to conserve supplies of crude oil and natural gas. There are federal, state and local laws and regulations primarily relating to protection of human health and the environment applicable to the development, production, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of crude oil and natural gas, byproducts thereof and other substances and materials produced or used in connection with crude oil and natural gas operations. In addition, we may inherit liability for environmental damages caused by previous owners of property we purchase or lease. As a result, we may incur -8- substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities. The implementation of new, or the modification of existing, laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on us. Future increases in our tax obligations; either due to increases in taxes on energy products, energy service companies and exploration activities or reductions in currently available federal income tax deductions with respect to oil and gas exploration and development, may adversely affect our results of operations and increase our operating expenses. Federal, state and local governments have jurisdiction in areas where we operate and impose taxes on the oil and natural gas products we sell. Recently there have been discussions by federal, state and local officials concerning a variety of energy tax proposals, some of which, if passed, would add or increase taxes on energy products, service companies and exploration activities. Additionally, the current administration has proposed legislation that would, if enacted into law, make significant changes to federal tax laws, including the elimination of certain key United States federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. These proposed changes include, but are not limited to: (1) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties, (2) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, (3) the elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities, and (4) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear whether any such changes will be enacted into law or how soon any such changes could become effective in the event they were enacted into law. The passage of any legislation as a result of these proposals or any other changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could eliminate or increase the taxes that we are required to pay and consequently adversely affect our results of operations and/or increase our operating expenses. The crude oil and natural gas reserves we report in our SEC filings are estimates and may prove to be inaccurate. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating crude oil and natural gas reserves and their estimated values. The reserves we report in our filings with the SEC now and in the future will only be estimates and such estimates may prove to be inaccurate because of these uncertainties. Reservoir engineering is a subjective and inexact process of estimating underground accumulations of crude oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. Estimates of economically recoverable crude oil and natural gas reserves depend upon a number of variable factors, such as historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas and assumptions concerning effects of regulations by governmental agencies, future crude oil and natural gas prices, future operating costs, severance and excise taxes, development costs and work-over and remedial costs. Some or all of these assumptions may in fact vary considerably from actual results. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of crude oil and natural gas attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of such reserves based on risk of recovery, and estimates of the future net cash flows expected therefrom prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers but at different times may vary substantially. Accordingly, reserve estimates may be subject to downward or upward adjustment. Actual production, revenue and expenditures with respect to our reserves will likely vary from estimates, and such variances may be material. Additionally, “probable” and “possible reserve estimates” (which the SEC began allowing effective January 1, 2010), which estimates are considered unproved reserves and as such, the SEC views such estimates to be inherently unreliable, may be misunderstood or seen as misleading to investors that are not “experts” in the oil or natural gas industry. Unless the shareholder has such expertise, the shareholder should not place undue reliance on these estimates. Except as required by applicable law, we undertake no duty to update this information and do not intend to update this information. Crude oil and natural gas development, re-completion of wells from one reservoir to another reservoir, restoring wells to production and exploration, drilling and completing new wells are speculative activities and involve numerous risks and substantial and uncertain costs. Our growth will be materially dependent upon the success of our future development program. Even considering our business philosophy to avoid wildcat wells, drilling for crude oil and natural gas and reworking existing wells involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive crude oil or natural gas reservoirs will be encountered. The cost of exploration, drilling, completing and operating wells is substantial and uncertain, and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or cancelled as a result of a variety of factors beyond our control, including: unexpected drilling conditions; pressure or irregularities in formations; equipment failures or accidents; inability to obtain leases on economic terms, where applicable; adverse weather conditions and natural disasters; compliance with governmental requirements; and shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs or -9- crews and the delivery of equipment. Furthermore, we cannot provide investors with any assurance that we will be able to obtain rights to additional producing properties in the future and/or that any properties we obtain rights to will contain commercially exploitable quantities of oil and/or gas. Drilling or reworking is a highly speculative activity. Even when fully and correctly utilized, modern well completion techniques such as hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling do not guarantee that we will find crude oil and/or natural gas in our wells. Hydraulic fracturing involves pumping a fluid with or without particulates into a formation at high pressure, thereby creating fractures in the rock and leaving the particulates in the fractures to ensure that the fractures remain open, thereby potentially increasing the ability of the reservoir to produce oil or gas. Horizontal drilling involves drilling horizontally out from an existing vertical well bore, thereby potentially increasing the area and reach of the well bore that is in contact with the reservoir. Our future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, such failure would have an adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. We cannot assure our shareholders that our overall drilling success rate or our drilling success rate for activities within a particular geographic area will not decline. We may identify and develop prospects through a number of methods, some of which do not include lateral drilling or hydraulic fracturing, and some of which may be unproven. The drilling and results for these prospects may be particularly uncertain. Our drilling schedule may vary from our capital budget. The final determination with respect to the drilling of any scheduled or budgeted prospects will be dependent on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: the results of previous development efforts and the acquisition, review and analysis of data; the availability of sufficient capital resources to us and the other participants, if any, for the drilling of the prospects; the approval of the prospects by other participants, if any, after additional data has been compiled; economic and industry conditions at the time of drilling, including prevailing and anticipated prices for crude oil and natural gas and the availability of drilling rigs and crews; our financial resources and results; the availability of leases and permits on reasonable terms for the prospects; and the success of our drilling technology. We cannot assure our shareholders that these projects can be successfully developed or that the wells discussed will, if drilled, encounter reservoirs of commercially productive crude oil or natural gas. There are numerous uncertainties in estimating quantities of proved reserves, including many factors beyond our control. If we are unable to find commercially exploitable quantities of oil and gas in any properties we may acquire in the future, and/or we are unable to commercially extract such quantities we may find in any properties we may acquire in the future, the value of our securities may decline in value. Because of the inherent dangers involved in oil and gas exploration, there is a risk that we may incur liability or damages as we conduct our business operations, which could force us to expend a substantial amount of money in connection with litigation and/or a settlement. The oil and natural gas business involves a variety of operating hazards and risks such as well blowouts, pipe failures, casing collapse, explosions, uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids, fires, spills, pollution, releases of toxic gas and other environmental hazards and risks. These hazards and risks could result in substantial losses to us from, among other things, injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution or other environmental damage, cleanup responsibilities, regulatory investigation and penalties and suspension of operations. In addition, we may be liable for environmental damages caused by previous owners of property purchased and leased by us in the future. As a result, substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities may be incurred, the payment of which could reduce or eliminate the funds available for the purchase of properties and/or property interests, exploration, development or acquisitions or result in the loss of our properties and/or force us to expend substantial monies in connection with litigation or settlements. As such, there can be no assurance that any insurance we currently maintain or that we obtain in the future will be adequate to cover any losses or liabilities. We cannot predict the availability of insurance or the availability of insurance at premium levels that justify our purchase. The occurrence of a significant event not fully insured or indemnified against could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operations. We may elect to self-insure if management believes that the cost of insurance, although available, is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. The occurrence of an event not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, which could lead to any investment in us declining in value or becoming worthless. -10- We incur certain costs to comply with government regulations, particularly regulations relating to environmental protection and safety, and could incur even greater costs in the future. Our exploration, production and marketing operations are regulated extensively at the federal, state and local levels, as well as by the governments and regulatory agencies in the foreign countries in which we do business, and are subject to interruption or termination by governmental and regulatory authorities based on environmental or other considerations. Moreover, we have incurred and will continue to incur costs in our efforts to comply with the requirements of environmental, safety and other regulations. Further, the regulatory environment in the oil and gas industry could change in ways that we cannot predict and that might substantially increase our costs of compliance and, in turn, materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Specifically, as an owner or lessee and operator of crude oil and natural gas properties, we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign regulations relating to the discharge of materials into, and the protection of, the environment. These regulations may, among other things, impose liability on us for the cost of pollution cleanup resulting from operations, subject us to liability for pollution damages and require suspension or cessation of operations in affected areas. Moreover, we are subject to the United States (U.S.) Environmental Protection Agency's (U.S. EPA) rule requiring annual reporting of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Changes in, or additions to, these regulations could lead to increased operating and compliance costs and, in turn, materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are aware of the increasing focus of local, state, national and international regulatory bodies on GHG emissions and climate change issues. In addition to the U.S. EPA's rule requiring annual reporting of GHG emissions, we are also aware of legislation proposed by U.S. lawmakers to reduce GHG emissions. Additionally, there have been various proposals to regulate hydraulic fracturing at the federal level. Currently, the regulation of hydraulic fracturing is primarily conducted at the state level through permitting and other compliance requirements. Any new federal regulations that may be imposed on hydraulic fracturing could result in additional permitting and disclosure requirements (such as the reporting and public disclosure of the chemical additives used in the fracturing process) and in additional operating restrictions. In addition to the possible federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing, some states and local governments have considered imposing various conditions and restrictions on drilling and completion operations, including requirements regarding casing and cementing of wells, testing of nearby water wells, restrictions on the access to and usage of water and restrictions on the type of chemical additives that may be used in hydraulic fracturing operations. Such federal and state permitting and disclosure requirements and operating restrictions and conditions could lead to operational delays and increased operating and compliance costs and, moreover, could delay or effectively prevent the development of crude oil and natural gas from formations which would not be economically viable without the use of hydraulic fracturing. We will continue to monitor and assess any new policies, legislation, regulations and treaties in the areas where we operate to determine the impact on our operations and take appropriate actions, where necessary. We are unable to predict the timing, scope and effect of any currently proposed or future laws, regulations or treaties, but the direct and indirect costs of such laws, regulations and treaties (if enacted) could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our officers and directors have limited liability, and we are required in certain instances to indemnify our officers and directors for breaches of their fiduciary duties. We have adopted provisions in our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws which limit the liability of our officers and directors and provide for indemnification by us of our officers and directors to the full extent permitted by Nevada corporate law. Our articles generally provide that our officers and directors shall have no personal liability to us or our shareholders for monetary damages for breaches of their fiduciary duties as directors, except for breaches of their duties of loyalty, acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or knowing violation of law, acts involving unlawful payment of dividends or unlawful stock purchases or redemptions, or any transaction from which a director derives an improper personal benefit. Such provisions substantially limit our shareholders' ability to hold officers and directors liable for breaches of fiduciary duty, and may require us to indemnify our officers and directors. -11- Risks Relating to Our Outstanding Securities If the holders of our outstanding convertible securities and warrants sell a large number of shares all at once or in blocks after converting such convertible securities and exercising such warrants, or the holders of our registered shares sell a large number of shares, the trading value of our shares could decline in value. We currently have Series B Warrants outstanding to purchase an aggregate of 2,510,506 shares of common stock which have an exercise price of $2.86 per share; outstanding warrants to purchase 150,630 shares of common stock held by our placement agent in our December 2010 unit offering, which have an exercise price of $2.98 per share; outstanding warrants to purchase 305,000 shares of common stock which have an exercise price of $1.00 per share; and outstanding warrants to purchase 1,032,500 shares of common stock sold in April 2012, which have an exercise price of $2.30 per share. The trading price of our common stock has recently fluctuated from between $3.46 and $1.04 per share during the last 52 weeks. We also currently have 2,000 shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and 2,824 shares of Series B Convertible Preferred Stock outstanding (collectively the “Preferred Stock Shares”), which shares each convert on a 1,000-for-one basis into shares of our common stock at the option of the holders thereof. Additionally, although the Preferred Stock Shares may not be converted if such conversion would cause the holder thereof to own more than 4.99% (9.99% in the case of the Series B Convertible Preferred Stock) of our outstanding common stock, this restriction does not prevent the holders from converting some of their Preferred Stock Shares, selling those shares and then converting the rest of their holdings, while still staying below the 4.99% and 9.99% limits, as applicable. In this way, the holders could sell more than this limit while never actually holding more shares than this limit allows. As of the date of this report, if the 4,824 outstanding Preferred Stock Shares were converted into common stock and sold (subject to the ownership limitations set forth above) an additional 4,824,000 shares of common stock of the Company or approximately 21% of the Company’s currently outstanding shares, would be issued and outstanding. We have 19,581,657 shares of common stock issued and outstanding as of the date of this report. As a result, the exercise of outstanding warrants (including, but not limited to warrants which have an exercise price substantially below the current trading price of our common stock) or conversion of shares of Series A and Series B Preferred Stock in the future and the subsequent resale of such shares of common stock (which shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the Series B Warrants, the placement agent warrants and the warrants sold in our April 2012 offering, will be eligible for immediate resale, and which shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the Series A and Series B Preferred Stock will be eligible for immediate resale subject to the terms and conditions of Rule 144) may cause dilution to existing shareholders and cause the market price of our securities to decline in value. Additionally, the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants or conversion of the Preferred Stock Shares may represent overhang that may also adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Overhang occurs when there is a greater supply of a company's stock in the market than there is demand for that stock. When this happens the price of the company's stock will decrease, and any additional shares which shareholders attempt to sell in the market will only further decrease the share price. Finally, the offer or sale of large numbers of shares of common stock in the future, including those shares previously registered in our registration statements and prospectus supplements, and/or in connection with future registration statements or prospectus supplements may cause the market price of our securities to decline in value. Nevada law and our Articles of Incorporation authorize us to issue shares of stock which shares may cause substantial dilution to our existing shareholders. We have authorized capital stock consisting of 100,000,000 shares of common stock, $0.001 par value per share and 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, $0.001 par value per share. As of June 15, 2012, we have 22,725,580 shares of common stock outstanding and 4,824 shares of preferred stock issued and outstanding, each convertible into 1,000 shares of our common stock. As a result, our Board of Directors has the ability to issue a large number of additional shares of common stock without shareholder approval, subject to the requirements of the NYSE MKT Equities Exchange (which generally require shareholder approval for any transactions which would result in the issuance of more than 20% of our then outstanding shares of common stock or voting rights representing over 20% of our then outstanding shares of stock), which if issued could cause substantial dilution to our then shareholders. Shares of additional preferred stock may also be issued by our Board of Directors without shareholder approval, with voting powers and such preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights and powers as determined by our Board of Directors, which may be greater than the shares of common stock currently outstanding. As a result, shares of preferred stock may be issued by our Board of Directors which cause the holders to have majority voting power over our shares, provide the holders of the preferred stock the right to convert the shares of preferred stock they -12- hold into shares of our common stock, which may cause substantial dilution to our then common stock shareholders and/or have other rights and preferences greater than those of our common stock shareholders. Investors should keep in mind that the Board of Directors has the authority to issue additional shares of common stock and preferred stock, which could cause substantial dilution to our existing shareholders. Additionally, the dilutive effect of any preferred stock which we may issue may be exacerbated given the fact that such preferred stock may have super voting rights and/or other rights or preferences which could provide the preferred shareholders with substantial voting control over us subsequent to the date of this report and/or give those holders the power to prevent or cause a change in control. As a result, the issuance of shares of common stock and/or Preferred Stock may cause the value of our securities to decrease and/or become worthless. Shareholders may be diluted significantly through our efforts to obtain financing and/or satisfy obligations through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock. We currently have no committed source of financing. Wherever possible, our Board of Directors will attempt to use non-cash consideration to satisfy obligations. In many instances, we believe that the non-cash consideration will consist of restricted shares of our common stock. Our Board of Directors has authority, without action or vote of the shareholders, to issue all or part of the authorized but unissued shares of common stock (subject to NYSE MKT Equities Exchange rules which limit among other things, the number of shares we can issue without shareholder approval to no more than 20% of our outstanding shares of common stock). These actions will result in dilution of the ownership interests of existing shareholders, and that dilution may be material. If persons engage in short sales of our common stock, including sales of shares to be issued upon exercise of our outstanding warrants, the price of our common stock may decline. Selling short is a technique used by a stockholder to take advantage of an anticipated decline in the price of a security. In addition, holders of options and warrants will sometimes sell short knowing they can, in effect, cover through the exercise of an option or warrant, thus locking in a profit. A significant number of short sales or a large volume of other sales within a relatively short period of time can create downward pressure on the market price of a security. Further sales of common stock issued upon exercise of our outstanding warrants could cause even greater declines in the price of our common stock due to the number of additional shares available in the market upon such exercise, which could encourage short sales that could further undermine the value of our common stock. Shareholders could, therefore, experience a decline in the values of their investment as a result of short sales of our common stock. The market price for our common stock may be volatile, and our shareholders may not be able to sell our stock at a favorable price or at all. Many factors could cause the market price of our common stock to rise and fall, including: actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly results of operations; changes in market valuations of companies in our industry; changes in expectations of future financial performance; fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes; issuances of dilutive common stock or other securities in the future; the addition or departure of key personnel; announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances; and the increase or decline in the price of oil and natural gas. It is possible that the proceeds from sales of our common stock may not equal or exceed the prices our shareholders paid for it plus the costs and fees of making the sales. We face potential liability under the Amendment Agreement in the event we do not satisfy the current public information requirements of Rule 144(c) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, prior to the date the Series B Warrants and shares of common stock issuable upon exercise thereof have been sold by the holders thereof or have expired. Pursuant to the Amendment Agreement (described above), we agreed that if at any time prior to the date that all of the Series B Warrants and any shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants are sold by the holders thereof, we fail to satisfy the current public information requirement of Rule 144(c) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (a “Public Information Failure”), as partial relief for the damages to any holder of warrants, we would pay the holders, based on their pro rata ownership of non-exercised and non-expired warrants on the first day of a Public Information Failure, an aggregate of $80,000 for the first thirty calendar days that there is a Public Information Failure (pro-rated for a period of less than thirty days) and an amount in cash equal to one and one-half percent (1.5%) of the aggregate Black Scholes Value (as defined in the warrants) of such holder’s non-exercised and -13- non-expired warrants on the sixty-first (61st) calendar day after the Public Information Failure (covering the 31st to 60th calendar days) and on every thirtieth day (pro-rated for periods totaling less than thirty days) thereafter until the earlier of (i) the date such Public Information Failure is cured; (ii) such time that such public information is no longer required pursuant to Rule 144; and (iii) the expiration date of the warrants. Additionally, upon the occurrence of any Public Information Failure during the 12 months prior to the expiration of any warrant, the expiration date of such warrant will be automatically extended for one day for each day that a Public Information Failure occurs and is continuing. As such, in the event of the occurrence of a Public Information Failure, we will face liability and penalties under the Amendment Agreement. The Investors in the Company’s December 2010 offering obtained a first priority right to provide additional funding to the Company. Pursuant to the Securities Purchase Agreements (the “Purchase Agreements”), with the investors purchased an aggregate of 2,510,506 units in December 2010, the Company agreed that until December 30, 2012, the Company would not undertake any of the following: (A), directly or indirectly, file any registration statement with the SEC, or (B) directly or indirectly, offer, sell, grant any option to purchase, or otherwise dispose of (or announce any offer, sale, grant or any option to purchase or other disposition of) any of its equity securities, including without limitation any debt, preferred stock or other instrument or security (a “Subsequent Placement”), unless the Company first provides the investors notice of such Subsequent Placement and provides such investors an opportunity to purchase up to 25% of the securities offered in such Subsequent Placement pursuant to the terms and conditions described in greater detail in the Purchase Agreements. As a result of the above, it may be harder for the Company to raise funding and/or issue securities in consideration for certain business purposes not exempt from the first priority requirements set forth in the Purchase Agreements, which could prevent the Company from meeting its capital needs, limit the Company’s ability to grow its operations and implement its business plan and ultimately cause the value of the Company’s securities to decline in value. We incur significant costs as a result of operating as a fully reporting publicly traded company and our management is required to devote substantial time to compliance initiatives. We incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses in connection with our status as a fully reporting public company. Specifically, we are required to prepare and file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Additionally, our officers, directors and significant shareholders are required to file Form 3, 4 and 5’s and Schedule 13D/G’s with the SEC disclosing their ownership of the Company and changes in such ownership. Furthermore, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”) and rules subsequently implemented by the SEC have imposed various new requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure of controls and procedures. The costs and expenses of compliance with SEC rules and our filing obligations with the SEC, or our identification of deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, could materially adversely affect our results of operations or cause the market price of our stock to decline in value. 