Item 1A. Risk Factors Failure to consummate the Mergers could materially and adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and stock price and cause the Bank to be placed into conservatorship or receivership. If the Mergers are not consummated for any reason: ● The Company will remain liable for significant transaction costs relating to the Mergers; ● The market price of the Company’s common stock may further decline to the extent that the current market price reflects a market belief that the offer and the Mid-Tier Merger will be completed; and ● BFS Bancorp, MHC, the Company and the Bank will be unable to comply with the Orders; Accordingly, should the Mergers not be consummated, there is substantial risk that the Bank will be placed into receivership by the OCC, which would appoint the FDIC as a receiver and that the Company will be unable to continue as a going concern, which would likely result in a complete loss of a shareholder’s investment. Additionally, the failure to consummate the Mergers may lead to uncertainty for the Company’s employees and its customers and suppliers. This uncertainty may mean: ● The attention of the Company’s management and employees may be diverted from day-to-day operations; and ● The Company’s ability to attract new employees and retain existing employees may be harmed by uncertainties associated with the Mergers. The occurrence of any of these events individually or in combination could materially and adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and stock price and the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. We Have Stipulated To Cease And Desist Orders With The OTS, Which Are Now Enforced By the OTS’ Successor Agencies. So Long As These or Additional Orders Are in Effect, They Will Continue to Significantly Restrict Our Operations. The Failure To Comply With These Orders Can Result In Significant Penalties. Effective March 31, 2011, the Company, BFS Bancorp, MHC and the Bank, consented to the issuance of Cease and Desist Orders from the OTS, which are now enforced by the Federal Reserve (for the Company and BFS Bancorp, MHC) and the OCC (for the Bank). While the entry into the Merger Agreement was intended to satisfy several requirements of the Orders, the Company, BFS Bancorp, MHC and the Bank continue to be subject to the significant restrictions imposed on our operations, including asset growth limitations, an inability to originate new commercial real estate loans without prior regulatory approval and restrictions on the Bank’s and Company’s abilities to make capital distributions. In the event we are in material non-compliance with the terms of the Orders, the Federal Reserve and OCC have the authority to subject us to the terms of more restrictive enforcement orders, to impose civil money penalties on us and our directors and officers, and to remove directors and officers from their positions with the Company and the Bank. An Inability To Improve Our Regulatory Capital Position Could Adversely Affect Our Operations. Due to the capital requirements imposed by the Bank Order, as of September 30, 2011, the Bank was classified as “adequately capitalized,” and not “well capitalized.” As a result of our capital levels: (i) our loans to one borrower limit has been reduced, which affects the size of the loans that we can originate and also requires us to sell, participate, or refuse to renew loans that exceed our lower loans to one borrower limit, both of which could negatively impact our earnings; (ii) we cannot renew or accept brokered deposits without prior regulatory approval; (iii) we must obtain prior regulatory approval to undertake any branch expansion activities; and (iv) we will pay higher insurance premiums to the FDIC, which will reduce our earnings. We may not be able to raise additional capital or reduce the Bank’s assets on favorable terms. In addition, equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Holders of our common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution. 38 There is substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern and it is possible that the Bank may fail, which would result in the FDIC being appointed as receiver of the Bank. A going concern emphasis paragraph has been included in the audit report our financial statements for fiscal year ended September 30, 2011 related to the uncertainty about our ability to continue as a going concern. Failure to comply with the requirements of the Contingency Plan to complete the Mergers or an alternative merger or acquisition would result in the imposition of the Contingency Plan requirement to voluntarily dissolve. These factors give rise to substantial doubt as to the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. There is uncertainty regarding the impact to our business of the formal investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission. In August 2011, the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Division of Enforcement notified the Company that the Division is conducting a formal investigation into the Company’s provisions and allowances for loan losses contained in its annual and quarterly reports for fiscal years 2008 through 2010. The Company intends to cooperate fully with the Division. However, we cannot predict the timing or eventual outcome of this investigation. This investigation could possibly result in penalties, sanctions, or a restatement of our previously issued financial statements. For additional information about the investigation, see “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” We incurred significant losses in 2010 and 2011 and may continue to do so in the future, and we can make no assurances as to when we will be profitable. Throughout 2010 and 2011, economic conditions in the markets in which our borrowers operate continued to deteriorate and the levels of loan delinquencies and defaults that we experienced were substantially higher than historical levels. Our loan customers continue to operate in an economically stressed environment. As a result, our net loss available to common shareholders for the year ended September 30, 2011 was $5.6 million or $0.44 per common diluted share, as compared with net loss available to common shareholders of $38.9 million or $3.08 per common diluted share for the year ended September 30, 2010. The net loss for the year ended September 30, 2011 was primarily attributable to an increase in non-performing assets. Our net interest margin and net interest income declined during 2011 as a result of increasing non-performing assets. Our net interest margin declined to 2.71% in 2011 compared to 4.50% in 2010, and our net interest income decreased $10.2 million for the year ended September 30, 2011 as compared to the same period in 2010. This trend may continue and could adversely impact our ability to become profitable. In light of the current economic environment, significant additional provisions for loan losses also may be necessary to supplement the allowance for loan losses in the future. As a result, we may continue to incur significant credit costs in the future, which would continue to adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations and the value of our common stock. We previously identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that required remediation. If the actions taken to address the material weakness prove inadequate or we otherwise fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls in the future, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent or detect fraud. Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with U. S. generally accepted accounting principles. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent or detect fraud. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports or prevent or detect fraud could harm our business. 39 Following the end of fiscal year 2010 and in connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2010, certain material weaknesses were identified in our internal control over financial reporting related to our determination of our allowance for loan losses. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2011, we modified our procedures related to the handling of appraisals and the timing of impairment analysis to ensure that charge-offs are recognized in a timely manner. However, we are unable to conclude as to whether the previously reported material weakness has been remediated due to the limited amount of time that has passed since these procedures were modified. Additionally, we may in the future discover other areas of our internal controls that need improvement or that constitute deficiencies or material weaknesses. Our failure to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, could result in material misstatements in our financial statements or failure to prevent or detect fraud. We may be required to incur significant costs in the future to remediate any inadequacies or material weaknesses in our internal controls, which could materially adversely impact our results of operations. Our Commercial Real Estate, Multi-Family, Construction and Land Loan Portfolios Have Increased in Recent Years, Increasing the Risk that Some of Our Loans Will Not Be Paid. Our lending in commercial real estate, construction and land expanded from 2005 through 2010, and such loans continue to represent a significant portion of our portfolio, representing approximately 57.6% of our total loan portfolio at September 30, 2011. Lending in these sectors generally exposes a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential lending. At September 30, 2011, we had loans for an aggregate of $114.9 million in non-performing status compared to forty-three loans for an aggregate of $71.9 million in non-performing status at September 30, 2010. In addition, our multi-family, commercial real estate and construction loan portfolio is not as seasoned as the loan portfolio of some of our competitors. If the local real estate market or economy continues to weaken, we may continue to experience higher levels of non-performing loans. The Bank agreed with the OTS that the Bank will not originate any commercial real estate, construction and land loans without prior OTS approval, which restriction remains in effect and is enforced by the OTS’ successor, the OCC. We May Experience Increased Costs Of Liquidity In Future Periods As A Result Of Our Current Financial Condition. In recent periods, we have experienced an increase in non-performing assets, an increase in our allowance for loan losses and an increase in competition in our primary market area, as well as a decrease in interest rates. As an “adequately capitalized” institution for bank regulatory purposes, the Bank may not accept brokered deposits without prior regulatory approval. Collectively, these factors reduce our liquidity and require us to seek alternative sources of liquidity to fund our operations and, in particular, the origination of new loans, the support of our continued growth and other strategic initiatives. Historically, we have had access to a number of alternative sources of liquidity, but given our financial performance and the recent downturn in the credit and liquidity markets, there is no assurance that we will have access to funding sources or whether terms will be favorable to us. If our funding costs increase, this will impede our growth and will have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If Our Non-Performing Loans And Other Non-Performing Assets Increase, Our Earnings Will Decrease. At September 30, 2011, our non-performing assets (which includes non-accrual loans and loans 90 days or more delinquent) totaled $114.9 million, which is an increase of $43.0 million over our non-performing assets at September 30, 2010. Our non-performing assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. We do not record interest income on non-accrual loans, and we must establish reserves for probable losses on non-performing loans. These reserves are established through a current period charge to income in the provision for loan losses. There are also legal fees associated with the resolution of problem assets. Additionally, our real estate owned results in carrying costs such as taxes, insurance and maintenance fees. Further, the resolution of non-performing assets requires the active involvement of management, which can distract us from the overall supervision of operations and other income-producing activities of the Bank. Finally, if our estimate of the allowance for loan losses is inadequate, we will have to increase the allowance accordingly, which is affected by recording a provision for loan losses. 40 If Economic Conditions Continue to Deteriorate, Particularly in the Metropolitan New York Area, Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition Will Continue to Be Adversely Affected as Borrowers’ Ability to Repay Loans Declines and the Value of the Collateral Securing Our Loans Decreases. Our financial results have been and will continue to be adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic conditions, particularly in the metropolitan New York area, including decreases in real estate values, changes in interest rates which may cause a decrease in interest rate spreads, adverse employment conditions, the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government and other significant external events. At September 30, 2011, loans secured by real estate represented nearly all of our total loans, with substantially all of these loans being made in the New York metropolitan area. Decreases in local real estate values would continue to adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for our loans. Adverse changes in the economy also may have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. The Current Economic Downturn Coupled With Turmoil and Uncertainty in the Financial Markets May Adversely Impact Our Earnings. The current economic downturn may adversely impact the financial condition of the households and businesses comprising our loan customers. Such a deteriorating financial condition could arise from loss of employment or business revenue exacerbated by a reduction in the value of real estate collateralizing our customers’ loans. As a consequence, we may continue to experience an increase in nonperforming loans that will negatively impact earnings through reduced collections of interest income coupled with possible increases in the provision for loan losses and associated charge offs. If Our Allowance for Loan Losses is Not Sufficient to Cover Actual Loan Losses, Our Earnings Could Decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. Material additions to our allowance would materially decrease our net income. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We and the Bank are currently undergoing changes in the way we are supervised and examined as a result of the consolidation of federal banking regulators called for by the Dodd-Frank Act, and may experience operational challenges or increased costs in the course of full transition to our new regulators. As a result of regulatory restructuring called for by the Dodd-Frank Act, effective July 21, 2011, the Federal Reserve became the primary federal regulator of the Company and the OCC became the primary federal regulator of the Bank. The Federal Reserve has issued an interim final rule that governs the activities of savings and loan holding companies and has begun to apply certain parts of its current consolidated supervisory program for bank holding companies, including significantly enhanced reporting requirements, to savings and loan holding companies. Also, the OCC published an interim final rule that reissues, as new OCC regulations, the former OTS regulations that the OCC has authority to promulgate and enforce as of the transfer date. As noted in the rulemaking, the interim final rule is part of a larger OCC review of OCC and OTS regulations to determine what changes are needed for the transition to OCC supervision of federal savings associations. The OCC announced that, as a continuation of this review, it will consider more comprehensive substantive amendments to these regulations, as appropriate, in the near future. Accordingly, the Company and Bank are currently transitioning to the jurisdiction of our new regulators and expect that some aspects of the regulatory restructuring process may result in increased costs, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. 41 The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act Will, Among Other Things, Tighten Capital Standards, Create A New Consumer Financial Protection Bureau And Result In New Laws And Regulations That Are Expected To Continue to Increase Our Costs Of Operations. The Dodd-Frank Act has had a significant impact on the bank regulatory structure for community banking organizations and particularly thrift organizations, as well as the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. Much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act still remains to be seen in the coming months or years, as thrifts and their holding companies settle into the jurisdictions of their new respective regulators, and as the effective dates of the many implementing regulations of the Dodd-Frank Act are gradually phased in. Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are expected to have a near term effect on us. For example, effective July 21, 2011, a federal prohibition on the payment of interest on demand deposits was eliminated, thus allowing businesses to have interest-bearing checking accounts. Depending on competitive responses, this significant change to existing law could have an adverse effect on our interest expense. Also, the Dodd-Frank Act creates a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, or CFPB, with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The CFPB has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Consumer CFPB has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Banks and savings institutions with $10 billion or less in assets, such as the Bank, will be examined by their applicable bank regulators. The Dodd-Frank Act also weakens the federal preemption rules that have been applicable for national banks and federal savings associations, and gives state attorneys general the ability to enforce federal consumer protection laws. As the Company and Bank continue to monitor developments under the Dodd-Frank Act and to assess the ultimate impact of the legislation and yet to be written implementing rules and regulations on community banks, at a minimum we have experienced an increase in our operating and compliance costs, which is expected to continue and further impact our interest expense. We operate in a highly regulated environment, and changes in laws and regulations to which we are subject may adversely affect our results of operations. The Bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC, as its chartering authority, and by the FDIC as the insurer of its deposits up to certain limits. In addition, the Federal Reserve currently regulates and oversees the Company and BFS Bancorp, MHC. We also belong to the Federal Home Loan Bank System and, as a member of such system, we are subject to certain limited regulations promulgated by the FHLB-NY. This regulation and supervision limits the activities in which we may engage. The purpose of regulation and supervision is primarily to protect our depositors and borrowers and, in the case of FDIC regulation, the DIF. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in the exercise of their supervisory and enforcement powers. They may, among other things, impose restrictions on the operation of a banking institution, the classification of assets by such institution and such institution’s allowance for loan losses. Regulatory and law enforcement authorities also have wide discretion and extensive enforcement powers under various consumer protection and civil rights laws, including the Truth in Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act. In addition to the changes discussed herein that are mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act, any change in the laws or regulations applicable to us, or in banking regulators’ supervisory policies or examination procedures, whether by the OCC, the FDIC, other state or federal regulators, or the United States Congress could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 42 The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be relied upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our profitability, like that of most financial institutions, depends substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on our interest-bearing liabilities. Increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. In addition, as market interest rates rise, we will have competitive pressures to increase the rates we pay on deposits, which could result in a decrease in our net interest income. We also are subject to reinvestment risk associated with changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities as borrowers refinance to reduce borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on existing loans and securities. If external funds were not available, this could adversely impact our growth and prospects. We rely on retail deposits, the amortization and prepayment of loans, the maturity and calls of investment securities, our operations and advances from the FHLB of New York to fund our operations. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances as necessary, we might not be able to replace such funds in the future if, among other things, our results of operations or financial condition or the results of operations or financial condition of the FHLB of New York or market conditions were to change. In addition, certain Federal Home Loan Banks have experienced lower earnings from time to time and paid out lower dividends to its members. Future problems at the Federal Home Loan Banks may impact the collateral necessary to secure borrowings and limit the borrowings extended to its member banks, require additional capital contributions by its member banks, and reduce or eliminate the dividends paid by the FHLB of New York. Should this occur, we could have difficulty meeting our short term liquidity needs and the Bank’s net interest income could be affected. In addition, future problems at the Federal Home Loan Banks could also cause the value of the equity investment we have in the stock of FHLB of New York to decline or become impaired. In addition, as an “adequately capitalized” institution for regulatory capital purposes, the Bank may not accept brokered deposits without prior regulatory approval, which further limits the availability of our funding sources. We may not be able to pay dividends in the future as our ability to pay dividends in the future is subject to regulatory approval. Our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders is primarily dependent on the Bank’s earnings. The payment of dividends also is subject to legal and regulatory restrictions. Any payment of dividends in the future will depend, in large part, on the Bank’s earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors considered relevant by the Company’s board of directors. Moreover, in connection with the Cease and Desist Orders to which BFS Bancorp, MHC, the Company and Bank are currently subject, any payment of dividends or other capital distributions is subject to the prior written non-objection of the Federal Reserve and/or OCC, as applicable. 43 We are not in compliance with certain NASDAQ Stock Market continued listing bid requirements and are subject to delisting if the Company does not regain compliance by March 5, 2012. On September 6, 2011, the Company received a letter from The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC (“NASDAQ”) advising that for the previous 30 consecutive business days, the Company failed to comply with the minimum closing bid price of $1.00 per share requirement for continued listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market. This notification has no effect on the listing of the Company’s common stock at this time. NASDAQ stated in its letter that the Company will be provided 180 calendar days, or until March 5, 2012, to regain compliance with the minimum closing bid price of $1.00 per share requirement for continued listing. The NASDAQ letter also states that if, at any time before March 5, 2012, the minimum closing bid price is at least $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days, the NASDAQ staff will provide the Company with written notification that it has achieved compliance with the continued listing requirement and the matter will be closed. If the Company does not regain compliance with the minimum closing bid price of $1.00 per share continued listing requirement by March 5, 2012, the NASDAQ staff will provide the Company with written notification that the Company’s common stock will be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. The Company may, however, be eligible for an additional grace period if certain conditions are met. The Company may also appeal NASDAQ’s delisting determination to a NASDAQ Hearings Panel. However, the Company is also a party to the Merger Agreement, under which the Company is expected to merge with Investors Bancorp, Inc, which would result in the cancellation of all of the Company’s outstanding common stock, thereby rendering the Bid Price Rule deficiency moot. Nevertheless, if the Mergers are not approved or do not close, our common stock could be delisted. The delisting of our common stock from trading on NASDAQ may have a material adverse effect on the market for, and liquidity and price of, our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital. Delisting from NASDAQ could also have other negative results, including, without limitation, the potential loss of confidence by customers and employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 44 