ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not strictly historical in nature are forward-looking statements. These statements include, but are not limited to, statements about: the timing of the commencement, enrollment, and completion of our clinical trials for our product candidates; the progress or success of our product development programs; the status of regulatory approvals for our product candidates; the timing of product launches; our ability to protect our intellectual property and operate our business without infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others; and our estimates for future performance, anticipated operating losses, future revenues, capital requirements, and our needs for additional financing. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terms such as “anticipates,” “believes,” “could,” “estimates,” “expects,” “intends,” “may,” “plans,” “potential,” “predicts,” “projects,” “should,” “will,” “would,” “goal,” and similar expressions intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are only predictions based on current information and expectations and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The underlying information and expectations are likely to change over time. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in our forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: Risks Related to Our Business We are largely dependent on the success of BiovaxID® and Revimmune™ and we may not be able to successfully commercialize these therapies. We have expended and will continue to expend significant time, money, and effort on the development of BiovaxID and Revimmune. Additionally, we expended significant funds and time conducting our Phase 3 clinical trial of SinuNase, for which development has been discontinued. We will incur significant costs and may never generate significant revenues from commercial sales of these products, if approved. None of these products is approved for marketing in any jurisdiction, and they may never be commercialized. Before we can market and sell these products, we will need to demonstrate in clinical trials that these products are safe and effective and will also need to obtain necessary approvals from the FDA, and similar foreign regulatory agencies. If we fail to successfully commercialize any or all of these product candidates, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenue to sustain and grow our business, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations will be adversely affected. 35 If we fail to obtain FDA approval of BiovaxID, Revimmune or any of our future product candidates, we will be unable to commercialize these products. Development, testing, manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical products are subject to extensive regulation by numerous governmental authorities in the U.S. and other countries. The process of obtaining FDA approval of pharmaceutical products is costly and time consuming. Any new pharmaceutical product must undergo rigorous preclinical and clinical testing and an extensive regulatory approval process mandated by the FDA. Such regulatory review includes the determination of manufacturing capability and product performance. In addition to seeking approval from the FDA for BiovaxID and Revimmune, we intend to seek the governmental approval required to market our products in the EU, and potentially additional countries and territories. We anticipate commencing the applications required in some or all of these countries following approval by the FDA; however, we may determine to file applications in advance of the FDA approval if we determine such filings to be both time and cost effective. Marketing of our products in these countries, and in most other countries, is not permitted until we have obtained required approvals or exemptions in each individual country. In addition, patient-specific active immunotherapies such as BiovaxID are complex, and regulatory agencies have limited experience with them. To date, the FDA has only approved for marketing one active immunotherapy for treating cancer. This limited precedent and experience may lengthen the regulatory review process and impede our ability to obtain timely FDA approval for BiovaxID, if at all. Even if BiovaxID is approved by the FDA, the FDA’s limited precedent and experience with respect to a patient-specific active idiotype vaccine may increase our development costs and otherwise delay or prevent commercialization. There can be no assurance that the products currently in development, or those products acquired or in-licensed by us, will be approved by the FDA. In addition, there can be no assurance that all necessary approvals will be granted for future products or that FDA review or actions will not involve delays caused by the FDA’s request for additional information or testing that could adversely affect the time to market and sale of the products. Any delay in any approval or any failure to obtain approval of a product could delay or impair our ability to commercialize that product and to generate revenue as well as increase costs for that product. Before we can seek regulatory approval of BiovaxID or Revimmune, we may need to successfully complete clinical trials, outcomes of which are uncertain. Conducting clinical trials is a lengthy, time-consuming, and expensive process, and the results of these trials are inherently uncertain. The time required to complete necessary clinical trials is often difficult, if not impossible, to predict. Our commencement and rate of completion of clinical trials may be delayed by many factors, including: • ineffectiveness of our product candidate or perceptions by physicians that the product candidate is not safe or effective for a particular indication; • inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of the product candidate for use in clinical trials; • delay or failure in obtaining approval of our clinical trial protocols from the FDA or institutional review boards; • slower than expected rate of patient recruitment and enrollment; • inability to adequately follow and monitor patients after treatment; • difficulty in managing multiple clinical sites; • unforeseen safety issues; • government or regulatory delays; and • clinical trial costs that are greater than we currently anticipate. 36 Even if we achieve positive interim results in clinical trials, these results do not necessarily predict final results, and positive results in early trials may not be indicative of success in later trials. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier trials. Negative or inconclusive results or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could cause us to repeat or terminate a clinical trial or require us to conduct additional trials. We do not know whether our existing or any future clinical trials will demonstrate safety and efficacy sufficiently to result in marketable products. Our clinical trials may be suspended at any time for a variety of reasons, including if the FDA or we believe the patients participating in our trials are exposed to unacceptable health risks or if the FDA finds deficiencies in the conduct of these trials. Failures or perceived failures in our clinical trials will directly delay our product development and regulatory approval process, damage our business prospects, make it difficult for us to establish collaboration and partnership relationships, and negatively affect our reputation and competitive position in the pharmaceutical community. We have incurred significant costs in our development efforts to date and may never generate significant revenue from commercial sales of our product candidates, if approved. We expended significant time and funds to conduct a Phase 3 clinical trial in SinuNase, a drug candidate to treate a sinus condition. The clinical trial was not considered to be successful and we are not continuing to develop this drug. In addition, we will continue to expend significant sums in the development efforts for BiovaxID and Revimmune. We expect to continue to incur significant operating expenses and capital expenditures as we: • conduct clinical trials; • conduct research and development on existing and new product candidates; • seek regulatory approvals for our product candidates; • commercialize our product candidates, if approved; • hire additional clinical, scientific, sales and marketing and management personnel; and • identify and license additional product candidates. If product candidates fail in clinical trials or do not gain regulatory approval or gain regulatory approval for more restricted indications than we have anticipated, we may not generate significant revenues from any of our product candidates. In addition, we may continue to experience net losses for the foreseeable future, in which case our accumulated deficit will continue to increase, and we may exhaust our resources and be unable to complete the development of our product candidates. If we are unable to fund the continuing development of our product candidates or if we fail to generate significant revenues from any of our product candidates, you could lose all or part of your investment. We have not filed required annual or quarterly SEC reports since October 2008. Our common stock is registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”). Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act requires that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission current and accurate information in annual reports and quarterly reports. Until the acceptance of this filing and the filing of the remainder of the delinquent periodic reports, we are delinquent in several of our periodic filing obligations, including not having timely filed our Annual Reports for the 2008 and 2009 fiscal years and our Quarterly Reports for the 2009 and 2010 fiscal years. A company that has not filed all of its Section 13 reports is not considered “current” in its Exchange Act reporting. Delinquent filers do not satisfy the current public information requirement of Securities Act Rule 144(c)(1) or the reporting issuer definition of Rule 902(l) of Regulation S. Furthermore, the Securities and Exchange Commission may pursue an enforcement action against delinquent filers, such as an administrative proceeding to suspend trading pursuant to Section (12)(k) of the Exchange Act, or a civil action seeking an injunction, and/or civil monetary penalties against the delinquent filers and/or its directors. At the present time, we cannot say what, if any, action the Securities and Exchange Commission may take against us; however, any such action could have an adverse impact on us. 37 We anticipate that we will need substantial additional funding in the future, and if we are unable to raise capital when needed, we would be forced to delay, reduce, or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts. Developing biopharmaceutical products, conducting clinical trials, establishing manufacturing capabilities, and marketing developed products is expensive. We anticipate that we will need to raise substantial additional capital in the future in order to complete the commercialization of our product candidates, to continue to pursue the submission of NDAs for our product candidates and to fund the development and commercialization of our specialty pharmaceutical product candidates. Further, we anticipate that Biovest will need to raise substantial additional capital from other sources in order to continue the clinical trials for BiovaxID. Additional sources of funding have not been established by us or Biovest; however, additional financing is currently being sought from a number of sources, including the sale of Biovest equity or debt securities, strategic collaborations, recognized research funding programs, as well as domestic and/or foreign licensing of Biovest’s vaccine. Based on our current operating plans, we expect that our existing capital and cash flow from operations, together with proceeds of one or more anticipated equity financing transactions,, will be sufficient to fund our operations and development activities for a limited period, assuming Biovest receives its own funding. We have received a report from independent registered certified public accounting firms on our consolidated financial statements for our fiscal years ended September 30, 2009 and 2008, in which our auditors have included explanatory paragraphs indicating that our significant net losses and working capital deficiency cause substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We expect to finance future cash needs through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, or corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements. To the extent that we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience additional dilution, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants. If our Biovest subsidiary raises funds through the issuance of equity securities, our equity interest in Biovest could be substantially diminished. If our Biovest subsidiary raises additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish some rights to our technologies or our product candidates or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available from the foregoing sources, we may consider additional strategic financing options, including sales of assets or business units (that are non-essential to the ongoing development or future commercialization of BiovaxID or Revimmune, or we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs or curtail some of our commercialization efforts. We may seek to access the public or private equity markets whenever conditions are favorable, even if we do not have an immediate need for additional capital at this time. There is a high risk of failure because we are trying to develop both a novel autoimmune disease treatment and a new anti-cancer vaccine. We are pursuing novel therapeutic treatments, including a new autoimmune disease treatment approach and a patient specific cancer therapy. Commercialization requires governmental approval, establishment of cost effective production capability, distribution capability and market acceptance. Our Revimmune treatment and our BiovaxID vaccine are subject to all of the risks of failure that are inherent in developing products based on new technologies and the risks associated with drug development generally. These risks include the possibility that: • our technology or the product based on our technology will be ineffective or toxic, or otherwise fail to receive necessary regulatory approvals; • future products based on our technology will be difficult to manufacture on a large scale or at all or will prove to be uneconomical to produce or market; • proprietary rights of third parties will prevent us or our collaborators from marketing products; • third parties will market superior or equivalent products; and • the products will not attain market acceptance. 38 Drug development, including clinical trials required for governmental approval, is expensive and new drugs have a high risk of failure. Based on results at any stage of development, including later-stage clinical trials and our inability to bear the related costs associated with product development or product production or marketing, we may decide to discontinue development or clinical trial at any time. Preparing for and processing the Biologics License Application (“BLA”) for BiovaxID and conducting a clinical trial for Revimmune will be expensive and time consuming. The FDA response to any application is uncertain and the FDA may reject or deny the application, or may impose additional requirements. Such additional requirements may be expensive and/or time consuming, and meeting these additional requirements may be difficult or impossible. We might be unable to manufacture our vaccine on a commercial scale. Assuming approval of BiovaxID®, manufacturing, supply and quality control problems could arise as we, either alone or with subcontractors, attempt to scale-up manufacturing capabilities for products under development. We might be unable to scale-up in a timely manner or at a commercially reasonable cost. Problems could lead to delays or pose a threat to the ultimate commercialization of our product and cause us to fail. Manufacturing facilities, and those of any future contract manufacturers, are or will be subject to periodic regulatory inspections by the FDA and other federal and state regulatory agencies and these facilities are subject to Quality System Regulation, or QSR, requirements of the FDA. If we or our third-party manufacturers fail to maintain facilities in accordance with QSR regulations, other international quality standards, or other regulatory requirements, then the manufacture process could be suspended or terminated, which would harm us. Because the product development and the regulatory approval process for Revimmune™ and BiovaxID® will be expensive and its outcome is uncertain, we must incur substantial expenses that might not result in any viable product and the process could take longer than expected. Regulatory approval of a pharmaceutical product is a lengthy, time-consuming and expensive process. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of either Revimmune and/or our BiovaxID vaccine, we must demonstrate that Revimmune and BiovaxID are safe and effective for use in humans. This is expected to result in substantial expense and require significant time. Historically, the results from pre-clinical testing and early clinical trials often have not been predictive of results obtained in later clinical trials. A number of new drugs have shown promising results in clinical trials, but subsequently failed to establish sufficient safety and efficacy data to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. Data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical activities are susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. In addition, regulatory delays or rejections could be encountered as a result of many factors, including changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development. Clinical trials conducted by us or by third parties on our behalf might not demonstrate sufficient safety, efficacy or statistical significance to obtain the requisite regulatory approval for our products. Regulatory authorities might not permit us to undertake any additional clinical trials for our product candidates. We have completed a single Phase 3 clinical trial for BiovaxID; however, we cannot be certain that FDA will not require additional clinical trials, either prior to or in conjunction with approval of BiovaxID. Our initial Phase 3 clinical trial spanned approximately eight years and the completion of any required additional clinical trials would likely take a significant number of years. The length of time generally varies substantially according to the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of the product candidate. Although for planning purposes we forecast the commencement and completion of clinical trials, and have included many of those forecasts in reports filed with the SEC and in other public disclosures, the actual timing of these events can vary dramatically. For example, we have experienced delays in our clinical development program in the past as a result of slower than anticipated patient enrollment. These delays may recur. Our commencement and rate of completion of clinical trials could be delayed by many factors. In addition, we may need to delay or suspend this regulatory process if we are unable to obtain additional funding when needed. Moreover, we have limited experience in vaccine development and the regulatory process. 39 We cannot predict the impact, if any, that “Fast Track” designation will have on the regulatory approval process for BiovaxID®. The FDA has granted “Fast Track” review designation to BiovaxID for the indication of FL, which means that this product may be eligible for expedited review procedures by the FDA. However, we cannot predict the impact, if any, that Fast Track designation will actually have on the duration of the regulatory approval process for this product candidate, and the FDA may deny regulatory approval of this product candidate notwithstanding its Fast Track designation. We may experience difficulties in manufacturing BiovaxID® or in obtaining approval of the change in manufacturing site from the FDA, which could prevent or delay us in the commercialization of BiovaxID. Manufacturing BiovaxID is complex and requires coordination internally among our employees, as well as, externally with physicians, hospitals and third-party suppliers and carriers. This process involves several risks that may lead to failures or delays in manufacturing BiovaxID, including: • difficulties in obtaining adequate tumor samples from physicians; • difficulties in timely shipping of tumor samples to us or in the shipping of BiovaxID to the treating physicians due to errors by third-party carriers, transportation restrictions or other reasons; • destruction of, or damage to, tumor samples or BiovaxID during the shipping process due to the improper handling by third-party carriers, hospitals, physicians or us; • destruction of, or damage to, tumor samples or BiovaxID during storage at our facility; and • difficulties in ensuring the availability, quality, and consistency of materials provided by our suppliers. If we experience any difficulties in manufacturing BiovaxID, the commercialization of BiovaxID may be delayed, resulting in delays in generating revenue and increased costs. In addition, because we have relocated the site of the manufacturing process to our Minneapolis facility following the clinical trials we are required to demonstrate to the FDA that the product under new conditions is comparable to the product that was the subject of earlier clinical testing. This requirement applies to the relocation at the Minneapolis facility as well as future expansions of the manufacturing facilities, such as the possible expansion to additional facilities that may be required for successful commercialization of the vaccine, resulting in increased costs. There is also a requirement for validation of the manufacturing process for BiovaxID utilizing our AutovaxID instrument. A showing of comparability requires data demonstrating that the product continues to be safe, pure, and potent and may be based on chemical, physical, and biological assays and, in some cases, other non-clinical data. If we demonstrate comparability, additional clinical safety and/or efficacy trials with the new product may not be needed. The FDA will determine if comparability data are sufficient to demonstrate that additional clinical studies are unnecessary. If the FDA requires additional clinical safety or efficacy trials to demonstrate comparability, our clinical trials or FDA approval of BiovaxID may be delayed, which would cause delays in generating revenue and increased costs. Because we have limited experience, we might be unsuccessful in our efforts to develop, obtain approval for, commercially produce or successfully market BiovaxID and/or Revimmune. The extent to which we develop and commercialize BiovaxID and Revimmune will depend on our ability to: • complete required clinical trials; • obtain necessary regulatory approvals; • establish, or contract for, required manufacturing capacity; and • establish, or contract for, sales and marketing resources. We have limited experience with these activities and might not be successful in the trials, product development or commercialization. 40 Competing technologies may adversely affect us. Biotechnology has experienced, and is expected to continue to experience, rapid and significant change. The use of monoclonal antibodies as initial or induction therapy, and increasingly for maintenance therapy, has become well-established and generally accepted. Products that are well-established or accepted, including monoclonal antibodies such as Rituxan®, including its anticipated pending expanded approval as a NHL maintenance therapy, may constitute significant barriers to market penetration and regulatory approval which may be expensive, difficult or even impossible to overcome. New developments in biotechnological processes are expected to continue at a rapid pace in both industry and academia, and these developments are likely to result in commercial applications competitive with our proposed vaccine. We expect to encounter intense competition from a number of companies that offer products in our targeted application area. We anticipate that our competitors in these areas will consist of both well-established and development-stage companies and will include: • healthcare companies; • chemical and biotechnology companies; • biopharmaceutical companies; and • companies developing drug discovery technologies. The cell culture production and technology business is also intensely competitive and is, in many areas, dominated by large service providers. In many instances, our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, research and other resources and larger, more established marketing, sales, distribution and service organizations than us. Moreover, these competitors may offer broader product lines and have greater name recognition than us and may offer discounts as a competitive tactic. Competitors might succeed in developing, marketing, or obtaining FDA approval for technologies, products, or services that are more effective or commercially attractive than those we offer or are developing, or that render our products or services obsolete. As these companies develop their technologies, they might develop proprietary positions, which might prevent us from successfully commercializing products. Also, we might not have the financial resources, technical expertise or marketing, distribution or support capabilities to compete successfully in the future. Our clinical trials for BiovaxID® may not be regarded by the FDA or other regulatory authorities as conclusive, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical testing for this product candidate or cease our trials. In April 2008, we closed our only Phase 3 clinical trial of BiovaxID® with 234 patients enrolled instead of the 563 patients anticipated to be enrolled pursuant to our clinical trial protocol. We announced clinical results based upon a relatively smaller number of patients. Additionally, our only Phase 3 clinical trial enrolled or randomized patients before their treatment with BiovaxID or control resulting in a significant number of patients being randomized but not treated with either BiovaxID or control because of failure to maintain compliance with protocol requirements including maintenance of complete remission. We do not know if the design of our Phase 3 clinical trial or an evaluation, which is limited to only patients that received at least one dose of BiovaxID or control, will be acceptable to the FDA for demonstrating sufficient safety and efficacy required to obtain marketing approval. While the Phase 3 clinical trial reported clinical benefit that was statistically significant (p-value of 0.045) in patients receiving at least one dose of BiovaxID or control, the results did not achieve “high” statistical significance which is generally considered to be a p-value of 0.01 or better. While it is not required, it is not uncommon for the FDA to require a second confirming Phase 3 clinical trial, when “high” statistical significance has not been demonstrated. We do not know whether our existing or future clinical trials will be considered by the FDA and/or other regulatory authorities to sufficiently demonstrate safety and efficacy to result in marketing approval. Because our clinical trials for BiovaxID may be considered to be inconclusive, we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical and/or preclinical testing for this product candidate or cease our clinical trials. If this happens, we may not be able to obtain approval for this product or the anticipated time to market for this product may be substantially delayed, and we may also experience significant additional development costs. We may also be required to undertake additional clinical testing if we change or expand the indications for our product candidate. 41 The ongoing detailed analysis being performed in our clinical trials for BiovaxID® may produce negative or inconclusive results and may delay our efforts to obtain approval for this product. We are currently engaged in performing detailed analyses of the safety and efficacy data generated by our Phase 3 clinical trial of BiovaxID in FL and our Phase 2 clinical trial in MCL. We cannot predict with certainty the results of the analyses, and if the results are negative or inconclusive we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical and/or preclinical testing for this product candidate or cease our clinical trials. If this happens, we may not be able to obtain approval for BiovaxID for FL, MCL or both, or the anticipated time to market for this product may be substantially delayed, and we may also experience significant additional development costs. The clinical trials for BiovaxID® have demonstrated that certain side effects may be associated with this treatment and ongoing or future clinical trials may reveal additional unexpected or unanticipated side effects. We cannot guarantee that our current or future trials for BiovaxID will not demonstrate additional adverse side effects that may delay or even preclude regulatory approval. Even if BiovaxID receives regulatory approval, if we or others identify previously unknown side effects following approval, regulatory approval could be withdrawn and sales of BiovaxID could be significantly reduced. Inability to obtain regulatory approval for our BiovaxID® manufacturing facility or to manufacture on a commercial scale may delay or disrupt our commercialization efforts. Before we can obtain FDA approval for any new drug, the manufacturing facility for the drug must be inspected and approved by the FDA. Therefore, before we can obtain the FDA approval necessary to allow us to begin commercially manufacturing BiovaxID, we must pass a pre-approval inspection of our BiovaxID manufacturing facility by the FDA. In order to obtain approval, we will need to ensure that all of our processes, methods, and equipment are compliant with the current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, and perform extensive audits of vendors, contract laboratories, and suppliers. The cGMP requirements govern quality control of the manufacturing process and documentation policies and procedures. We have undertaken steps towards achieving compliance with these regulatory requirements required for commercialization. In complying with cGMP, we will be obligated to expend time, money, and effort in production, record keeping, and quality control to assure that the product meets applicable specifications and other requirements. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we could experience product liability claims from patients receiving our vaccines, we might be subject to possible regulatory action and we may be limited in the jurisdictions in which we are permitted to sell BiovaxID. In order to commercialize BiovaxID, we will need to develop and qualify one or more additional manufacturing facilities. Preparing a facility for commercial manufacturing may involve unanticipated delays, and the costs of complying with state, local, and FDA regulations may be higher than we anticipated. In addition, any material changes we make to the manufacturing process may require approval by the FDA and state or foreign regulatory authorities. Obtaining these approvals is a lengthy, involved process, and we may experience delays. Such delays could increase costs and adversely affect our business. In general, the FDA views cGMP standards as being more rigorously applied as products move forward in development and commercialization. In seeking to comply with these standards, we may encounter problems with, among other things, controlling costs and quality control and assurance. It may be difficult to maintain compliance with cGMP standards as the development and commercialization of BiovaxID progresses, if it progresses. We and our products are subject to comprehensive regulation by the FDA in the U.S. and by comparable authorities in other countries. These national agencies and other federal, state and local entities regulate, among other things, the preclinical and clinical testing, safety, approval, manufacture, labeling, marketing, export, storage, record keeping, advertising and promotion of our products. If we violate regulatory requirements at any stage, whether before or after marketing approval is obtained, we may be subject to forced removal of a product from the market, product seizure, civil and criminal penalties and other adverse consequences. 42 We cannot predict the impact, if any, that “Orphan Drug” exclusivity status will have on the regulatory approval process for BiovaxID®. In October 2009, the FDA granted Orphan Drug designation to BiovaxID for the treatment of FL and in July 2010, the FDA granted Orphan Drug designation to BiovaxID for the treatment of MCL. Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant Orphan Drug designation to drugs intended to treat a “rare disease or condition,” which generally is a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the U.S. After the FDA grants Orphan Drug designation to a product, the generic identity of the therapeutic agent and its potential orphan use are publicly disclosed by the FDA. Orphan Drug designation does not convey any advantage in, or shorten the duration of, the regulatory review and approval process. If a product which has an Orphan Drug designation subsequently receives the first FDA approval for the indication for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to orphan exclusivity, which means that the FDA may not approve any other applications to market the same drug for the same indication for a period of seven years, except in limited circumstances such as greater effectiveness, greater safety, major contribution to patient care, or inadequate supply. Even though it has been designated as an Orphan Drug, BiovaxID may not be approved, or may not be approved before other applications, or granted orphan drug exclusivity if approved. Our competitors may obtain orphan drug exclusivity for products competitive with our product candidate before we do or even if we do not obtain such status, in which case we would be excluded from that market if the FDA deems the competitive drug to be the same drug as BiovaxID. Even though we obtained orphan drug exclusivity for BiovaxID for FL and MCL, we may not be able to maintain it. For example, if a competitive product is shown to be clinically superior to our product, any orphan drug exclusivity we have obtained will not block the approval of such competitive product. The NCI is not precluded from working with other companies on developing products that are competitive with BiovaxID®. Our BiovaxID vaccine is based on research and studies conducted at Stanford and the NCI. The concept of producing a patient-specific anti-cancer vaccine through the hybridoma method from a patient’s own cancer cells has been discussed in a variety of publications over a period of many years, and, accordingly, the general method and concept of such a vaccine is not eligible to be patented by us, the NCI, or any other party. Until November 2006, we were a party to a Cooperative Research and Development Agreement, or CRADA, with the NCI for the development of a hybridoma-based patient-specific idiotypic vaccine for the treatment of indolent FL. We gave notice of termination of the CRADA in September 2006. Although the NCI transferred sponsorship of the IND for BiovaxID to Biovest in 2004, and although there are certain confidentiality protections for information generated pursuant to the CRADA, the CRADA does not prevent the NCI from working with other companies on other hybridoma-based idiotypic vaccines for indolent FL or other forms of cancer, and the NCI or its future partners may be able to utilize certain technology developed under our prior CRADA. If the NCI chooses to work with other companies in connection with the development of such a vaccine, such other companies may also develop technology and know-how that may ultimately enable such companies to develop products that compete with BiovaxID. Additionally, through their partnership with the NCI, these companies could develop immunotherapies for other forms of cancer that may serve as barriers to any future products that we may develop for such indications. We are not able to prevent third parties, including potential competitors, from developing and selling an anti-cancer vaccine for NHL having the same composition of matter as BiovaxID®. Our BiovaxID vaccine is based on research and studies conducted at Stanford and the NCI. As a result of published studies, the concept of the vaccine and its composition of matter are in the public domain and cannot be patented by us, the NCI, or any other party. We have filed a PCT patent application on the type of cell media that is used to grow cell cultures in the production of our vaccine, and we have filed a PCT patent application on certain features of the integrated production and purification system used to produce and purify the vaccine in an automated closed system. We have obtained an exclusive world-wide license for use of a proprietary cell line which we use to manufacture BiovaxID, but we cannot be certain that we will be successful in preventing others from utilizing this cell line or will be able to maintain and enforce the exclusive license in all jurisdictions. We cannot prevent other companies using different manufacturing processes from developing active immunotherapies that directly compete with BiovaxID. For example, Bayer Innovation GmbH has commenced a Phase 1 clinical trial for its autologous anti-idiotype lymphoma vaccine produced in a tobacco plant cell line. Several companies, such as Genentech, Inc., Corixa Corporation, Biogen Idec, and Immunomedics, Inc., are involved in the development of passive immunotherapies for NHL. These passive immunotherapies include Rituxan®, a monoclonal antibody, and Zevalin® and Bexxar®, which are passive radioimmunotherapy products. Passive immunotherapies, particularly the monoclonal antibody Rituxan, are well accepted and established in the treatment of NHL and as such will impact both regulatory considerations and market penetration. 43 If we acquire other complementary technologies or companies, our financial performance could suffer, and such acquisitions involve a number of risks. We may from time to time actively seek to identify and acquire companies, technologies, or pharmaceutical products with attributes complementary to our products and services. Acquisitions that we make may involve numerous risks, including: • diverting management’s attention from other business concerns; • being unable to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures, and policies; • entering markets in which we have no direct prior experience; • improperly evaluating new services and technologies or otherwise being unable to fully exploit the anticipated opportunity; and • being unable to successfully integrate the acquisition. Any of the factors listed above would adversely affect our results of operations. Our proprietary rights may not adequately protect our technologies and product candidates. Our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining and maintaining patent protection and trade secret protection of our technologies and product candidates as well as successfully defending these patents against third-party challenges. We will only be able to protect our technologies and product candidates from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that valid and enforceable patents or trade secrets cover them. Furthermore, the degree of future protection of our proprietary rights is uncertain because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. For Revimmune, we have published patent applications as well as additional patent protection. For BiovaxID, we hold the patent relating to the method of producing BiovaxID and we have filed additional patent applications for BiovaxID. There are filed patent applications for AutovaxID as well. The patent positions of life sciences companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in such companies’ patents has emerged to date in the U.S. The patent situation outside the United States is even more uncertain. Changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States or other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our patents or in third-party patents. For example: • we or our licensors might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications and issued patents; • we or our licensors might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; • it is possible that none of our pending patent applications or the pending patent applications of our licensors will result in issued patents; • our issued patents and issued patents of our licensors may not provide a basis for commercially viable products, or may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be challenged and invalidated by third parties; • we may not develop additional proprietary technologies or product candidates that are patentable; or • the patents of others may have an adverse effect on our business. We also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. While we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our or our strategic partners’ employees, consultants, contractors, or scientific and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. If we were to enforce a claim that a third party had illegally obtained and was using our trade secrets, it would be expensive and time consuming, and the outcome would be unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. Moreover, if our competitors independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods, and know-how, it will be more difficult for us to enforce our patent rights and our business could be harmed. 44 If we are not able to defend the patent or trade secret protection position of our technologies and product candidates, then we will not be able to exclude competitors from developing or marketing competing products, and we may not generate enough revenue from product sales to justify the cost of development of our products and to achieve or maintain profitability. If we are sued for infringing intellectual property rights of third parties, such litigation will be costly and time consuming, and an unfavorable outcome would have a significant adverse effect on our business. Our ability to commercialize our products depends on our ability to sell such products without infringing the patents or other proprietary rights of third parties. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the various areas in which we have products or are seeking to create products, including patents relating to specific antifungal formulations and methods of using the formulations to treat infections, as well as patents relating to serum-based vaccines and methods for detection of lymphoma. The interpretation of patent claims is complex and uncertain. The legal standards governing claim interpretations are evolving and changing. Thus, any significant changes in the legal standards would impact the way that we interpret the claims of third-party patents in our product areas. In addition, because patent applications can take several years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that our product candidates may infringe. There could also be existing patents of which we are not aware that our product candidates may inadvertently infringe. If a third party claims that we infringe on their patents or other proprietary rights, we could face a number of issues that could seriously harm our competitive position, including: • infringement and other intellectual property claims which, with or without merit, can be costly and time consuming to litigate and can delay the regulatory approval process and divert management’s attention from our core business strategy; • substantial damages for past infringement which we may have to pay if a court determines that our products or technologies infringe upon a competitor’s patent or other proprietary rights; • a court prohibiting us from selling or licensing our products or technologies unless the holder licenses the patent or other proprietary rights to us, which it is not required to do; • if a license is available from a holder, we may have to pay substantial royalties or grant cross licenses to our patents or other proprietary rights; and • redesigning our process so that it does not infringe, which may not be possible or may require substantial time and expense. Such actions could harm our competitive position and our ability to generate revenue and could result in increased costs. We currently depend on sole-source suppliers for cyclophosphamide, the primary agent utilized in Revimmune™ treatment, and for KLH, a critical raw material used in the manufacture of BiovaxID, and physicians who administer BiovaxID depend on a sole-source supplier for GM-CSF, an immune system stimulant administered with BiovaxID. We currently depend on single source suppliers for critical raw materials used in Revimmune, BiovaxID and other components used in the manufacturing process and required for the administration of BiovaxID. In particular, the Revimmune treatment consists of high-dose cyclophosphamide. Baxter International, Inc. (“Baxter”) is the exclusive supplier of cyclophosphamide in the U.S and internationally. We are currently in discussions with Baxter seeking to obtain contractual relationships to insure our access to adequate supplies of cyclophosphamide to support clinical and commercial development of Revimmune. In addition, the manufacturing of BiovaxID requires keyhole limpet hemocyanin, or KLH, a foreign carrier protein. We purchase KLH from BioSyn Arzneimittel GmbH (“BioSyn”), a single source supplier. We have entered into a supply agreement with BioSyn, pursuant to which BioSyn has agreed to supply us with KLH. The supply agreement has an initial term of three years and is renewable for indefinite additional terms of five years each at our discretion, so long as we are not in default of our obligations pursuant to this agreement. Either party may terminate the supply agreement earlier upon a breach that is not cured within 60 days or other events relating to insolvency or bankruptcy. Under this agreement BioSyn is not contractually obligated to supply us with the amounts of KLH required for commercialization. We have become aware of additional suppliers who now market KLH, but we have not yet established a relationship with these suppliers and have not performed testing to insure that the KLH supplied by them is suitable for use in the BiovaxID production process. 45 When BiovaxID is administered, the administering physician uses a cytokine to enhance the patient’s immune response, and this cytokine is administered concurrently with BiovaxID. The cytokine used by physicians for this purpose is Leukine® sargramostim, a commercially available recombinant human granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor known as GM-CSF. This cytokine is a substance that is purchased by the administering physician and is administered with an antigen to enhance or increase the immune response to that antigen. The physicians who administer BiovaxID will rely on Berlex Inc., or Berlex, as a supplier of GM-CSF, and these physicians will generally not have the benefit of a long-term supply contract with Berlex. GM-CSF is not commercially available from other sources in the U.S. or Canada. Establishing additional or replacement suppliers for these materials or components may take a substantial amount of time. In addition, we may have difficulty obtaining similar components from other suppliers that are acceptable to the FDA. If we have to switch to a replacement supplier, we may face additional regulatory delays and the manufacture and delivery of BiovaxID, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop, could be interrupted for an extended period of time, which may delay completion of our commercialization of BiovaxID, or any other immunotherapies that we may develop. If we are unable to obtain adequate amounts of these components, our commericialization will be delayed. In addition, we will be required to obtain regulatory clearance from the FDA to use different components that may not be as safe or as effective. As a result, regulatory approval of BiovaxID may not be received at all. All these delays could cause delays in commercialization of BiovaxID, delays in our ability to generate revenue from BiovaxID, and increased costs. The market may not be receptive to our products upon their introduction. The biopharmaceutical products that we may develop may not achieve market acceptance among physicians, patients, health care payors, and the medical community. The degree of market acceptance will depend upon a number of factors, including • the receipt of regulatory approvals; • limited indications of regulatory approvals; • the establishment and demonstration in the medical community of the clinical efficacy and safety of our products and their potential advantages over existing treatment methods; • the prices of such products; • reimbursement policies of government and third-party payors; • market acceptance of patient-specific active immunotherapies, in the case of BiovaxID; • the prevalence and severity of any side effects; • potential advantages over alternative treatments; • ability to produce our products at a competitive price; • stocking and distribution; • relative convenience and ease of administration; • the strength of marketing and distribution support; and • sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement. The failure of our product pipeline to gain market acceptance could impair our ability to generate revenue, which could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. 46 Risks Related to Our Industry Our competitors may develop products that are less expensive, safer, or more effective, which may diminish or eliminate the commercial success of any future products that we may commercialize. We compete with several biopharmaceutical companies, and our competitors may: • develop product candidates and market products that are less expensive or more effective than our future products; • commercialize competing products before we or our partners can launch any products developed from our product candidates; • initiate or withstand substantial price competition more successfully than we can; • have greater success in recruiting skilled scientific workers from the limited pool of available talent; • more effectively negotiate third-party licenses and strategic relationships; and • take advantage of acquisition or other opportunities more readily than we can. We will compete for market share against large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and smaller companies that are collaborating with larger pharmaceutical companies, new companies, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations. Many of these competitors, either alone or together with their partners, may develop new product candidates that will compete with ours, and these competitors may, and in certain cases do, operate larger research and development programs or have substantially greater financial resources than we do. If our competitors market products that are less expensive, safer or more effective than our potential products, or that reach the market sooner than our potential products, we may not achieve commercial success. In addition, the life sciences industry is characterized by rapid technological change. Because our research approach integrates many technologies, it may be difficult for us to stay abreast of the rapid changes in each technology. If we fail to stay at the forefront of technological change we may be unable to compete effectively. Our competitors may render our technologies obsolete by advances in existing technological approaches or the development of new or different approaches, potentially eliminating the advantages in our drug discovery process that we believe we derive from our research approach and proprietary technologies. If we fail to comply with extensive regulations enforced by the FDA, EMEA, and other agencies, the sale of our product candidates would be prevented or delayed. Research, pre-clinical development, clinical trials, manufacturing, and marketing of our products are subject to extensive regulation by various government authorities. We have not received marketing approval for BiovaxID or Revimmune. The process of obtaining FDA, EMEA, and other required regulatory approvals is lengthy and expensive, and the time required for such approvals is uncertain. The approval process is affected by such factors as • the severity of the disease; • the quality of submission; • the clinical efficacy and safety; • the strength of the chemistry and manufacturing control of the process; • the manufacturing facility compliance; • the availability of alternative treatments; • the risks and benefits demonstrated in clinical trials; and • the patent status and marketing exclusivity rights of certain innovative products. Any regulatory approvals that we or our partners receive for our product candidates may also be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the drug may be marketed or contain requirements for potentially costly post-marketing follow-up studies. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with the drug, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, may result in restrictions on the marketing of the drug, and could include withdrawal of the drug from the market. 47 Our U.S. manufacturing, labeling, storage, and distribution activities also are subject to strict regulation and licensing by the FDA. Our biopharmaceutical manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA, the EMEA, and other regulatory authorities and from time to time, we may receive notices of deficiencies from these agencies as a result of such inspections. Our failure or the failure of our biopharmaceutical manufacturing facilities, to continue to meet regulatory standards or to remedy any deficiencies could result in corrective action by the FDA or these other authorities, including the interruption or prevention of marketing, closure of our biopharmaceutical manufacturing facilities and fines or penalties. Regulatory authorities also will require post-marketing surveillance to monitor and report to the FDA potential adverse effects of our products or product candidates. Congress or the FDA in specific situations can modify the regulatory process. Once approved, a product’s failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could, among other things, result in warning letters, fines, suspension or revocation of regulatory approvals, product recalls or seizures, operating restrictions, injunctions, and criminal prosecutions. The FDA’s policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we might not be permitted to market our products and our business could suffer. Distribution of our products outside the U.S. is subject to extensive government regulation. These regulations, including the requirements for approvals or clearance to market, the time required for regulatory review and the sanctions imposed for violations, vary from country to country. There can be no assurance that we will obtain regulatory approvals in such countries or that we will not be required to incur significant costs in obtaining or maintaining these regulatory approvals. In addition, the export by us of certain of our products that have not yet been cleared for domestic commercial distribution may be subject to FDA export restrictions. Failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, the restriction, suspension or revocation of existing approvals or any other failure to comply with regulatory requirements would impair our ability to generate revenue, increase our compliance costs, and have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, and results of operations. The insurance coverage and reimbursement status of newly approved products is uncertain and failure to obtain or maintain adequate coverage and reimbursement for new or current products could limit our ability to market those products and decrease our ability to generate revenue. There is significant uncertainty related to the insurance coverage and reimbursement of newly approved products. The commercial success of our potential products in both domestic and international markets is substantially dependent on whether third-party coverage and reimbursement is available for the ordering of our potential products by the medical profession for use by their patients. Medicare, Medicaid, health maintenance organizations, and other third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement of new products, and, as a result, they may not cover or provide adequate payment for our potential products. Our product candidates could, if approved face declining revenues if competitor products are perceived as providing a substantially equivalent therapeutic effect at a lower cost to the payor. They may not view our products as cost-effective and reimbursement may not be available to consumers or may not be sufficient to allow our products to be marketed on a competitive basis. Likewise, legislative or regulatory efforts to control or reduce healthcare costs or reform government healthcare programs could result in lower prices or rejection of our products. Changes in coverage and reimbursement policies or healthcare cost containment initiatives that limit or restrict reimbursement for our products may cause our revenue to decline. We may not be able to maintain sufficient product liability insurance to cover claims against us. Product liability insurance for the biopharmaceutical industry is generally expensive to the extent it is available at all. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms or that we will be able to secure increased coverage if the commercialization of our products progresses, or that existing, or future claims against us will be covered by our product liability insurance. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the existing coverage of our insurance policy and/or any rights of indemnification and contribution that we may have will offset existing or future claims. We maintain product liability insurance of $1.0 million per occurrence and in the aggregate. We believe that this coverage is currently adequate based on current and projected business activities and the associated risk exposure, although we expect to increase this coverage as our business activities and associated risk grow. A successful claim against us with respect to uninsured liabilities or in excess of insurance coverage and not subject to any indemnification or contribution could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, and results of operations. 48 We could be negatively impacted by the application or enforcement of federal and state fraud and abuse laws, including anti-kickback laws and other federal and state anti-referral laws. We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws and physician self-referral laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including, in some instances, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, including the Medicare, Medicaid and Veterans Administration health programs. Because of the far-reaching nature of these laws, we may be required to alter or discontinue one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws. Healthcare fraud and abuse regulations are complex, and even minor irregularities can potentially give rise to claims that a statute or prohibition has been violated. Any violations of these laws, or any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If there is a change in law, regulation or administrative or judicial interpretations, we may have to change or discontinue our business practices or our existing business practices could be challenged as unlawful, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we could become subject to false claims litigation under federal statutes, which can lead to treble damages based on the reimbursements by federal health care programs, civil money penalties (including penalties levied on a per false claim basis), restitution, criminal fines and imprisonment, and exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. These false claims statutes include the False Claims Act, which allows any person to bring suit on behalf of the federal government alleging the submission of false or fraudulent claims, or causing to present such false or fraudulent claims, under federal programs or contracts claims or other violations of the statute and to share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. These suits against biotechnology companies have increased significantly in recent years and have increased the risk that a healthcare company will have to defend a false claim action, pay fines or restitution, or be excluded from the Medicare, Medicaid or other federal and state healthcare programs as a result of an investigation arising out of such action. We cannot assure you that we will not become subject to such litigation or, if we are not successful in defending against such actions, that such actions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we cannot assure you that the costs of defending claims or allegations under the False Claims Act will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Operations The failure to attract and retain skilled personnel could impair our product development and commercialization efforts. Our performance is substantially dependent on the performance of our senior management and key scientific and technical personnel. The loss of the services of any member of our senior management, scientific, or technical staff may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of product development and other business objectives by diverting management’s attention to transition matters and identification of suitable replacements, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. We do not maintain key man life insurance for any of our executive management personnel. We are not aware of any plans by our key personnel to retire or leave us in the near future. We also rely on consultants and advisors to assist us in formulating our research and development strategy. All of our consultants and advisors are either self-employed or employed by other organizations, and they may have conflicts of interest or other commitments, such as consulting or advisory contracts with other organizations, that may affect their ability to contribute to us. In addition, we believe that we will need to recruit additional executive management and scientific and technical personnel. There is currently intense competition for skilled executives and employees with relevant scientific and technical expertise, and this competition is likely to continue. The inability to attract and retain sufficient scientific, technical, and managerial personnel could limit or delay our product development efforts, which would adversely affect the development of our product candidates and commercialization of our potential products and growth of our business. 49 We expect to expand our development, clinical research, and marketing capabilities, and as a result, we may encounter difficulties in managing our growth, which could disrupt our operations. We expect to have significant growth in expenditures, the number of our employees and the scope of our operations, in particular with respect to those product candidates that we elect to commercialize independently or together with a partner. To manage our anticipated future growth, we must continue to implement and improve our managerial, operational, and financial systems, expand our facilities, and continue to recruit and train additional qualified personnel. Due to our limited resources, we may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations or recruit and train additional qualified personnel. The physical expansion of our operations may lead to significant costs and may divert our management and business development resources. Any inability to manage growth could delay the execution of our business plans or disrupt our operations. We have a limited operating history and financial results are uncertain. We have a limited history as a consolidated company and face many of the risks of a new business. As a result of our limited operating history, it is difficult to accurately forecast our potential revenue. Our revenue and income potential is unproven and our business model is still emerging. Therefore, we cannot assure you that we will provide a return on investment in the future. An investor in our common stock must consider the challenges, risks, and uncertainties frequently encountered in the establishment of new technologies and products in emerging markets and evolving industries. These challenges include our ability to: • execute our business model; • create brand recognition; • manage growth in our operations; • create a customer base cost-effectively; • retain customers; • access additional capital when required; and • attract and retain key personnel. We cannot be certain that our business model will be successful or that it will successfully address these and other challenges, risks, and uncertainties. The existence of minority stockholders in our Biovest subsidiary creates potential for conflicts of interest. We own a majority of the outstanding shares of common stock of Biovest and the remaining Biovest stock is owned by approximately 400 stockholders of record. As a result, conflicts of interest may develop between us and the minority stockholders of Biovest. To the extent that our officers and directors are also officers or directors of Biovest, matters may arise that place the fiduciary duties of these individuals in conflicting positions. Although, we intend that such conflicts will be resolved by independent directors of Biovest, if this occurs, matters important to us could be delayed. Francis E. O’Donnell, Jr., M.D., our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, is also Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Biovest; Samuel S. Duffey, Esq., our President and General Counsel, is also President and General Counsel of Biovest; Alan M. Pearce, our Chief Financial Officer, is also Chief Financial Officer of Biovest. 50 Shares of the Biovest stock held by us are transferable under debentures and warrants issued by us. In September 2006, we entered into a private placement in which we issued to investors an aggregate of $25.0 million of the 8% secured convertible debentures together with common stock purchase warrants. The convertible debentures issued by us in the private placement are convertible at the option of the holder into shares of our common stock or exchangeable for shares of Biovest stock held by us, and the warrants issued in the transaction are exercisable for our common stock or shares of Biovest stock held by us. In addition, we have pledged into an escrow account 18.0 million shares of the Biovest common stock held by us to secure the repayment of the convertible debentures. The total number of shares of Biovest common stock transferable by us to the investors in the private placement, whether pursuant to the exchange or exercise of the debentures and warrants or the exercise of rights under the pledge agreement may not exceed 18.0 million shares in the aggregate. Accordingly, it is possible that our ownership of Biovest common stock could decrease by up to 18.0 million shares as a result of the September 2006 private placement. We have also pledged a total of 33.0 million shares of Biovest common stock owned by us to secure debts owed to two secured creditors. In addition, Biovest may issue shares of its common stock to third parties in connection with debt and/or equity financing transactions. In such case, it is possible that we could cease to be the majority shareholder of Biovest. We occasionally become subject to commercial disputes that could harm our business by distracting our management from the operation of our business, by increasing our expenses and, if we do not prevail, by subjecting us to potential monetary damages and other remedies. From time to time we are engaged in disputes regarding our commercial transactions. These disputes could result in monetary damages or other remedies that could adversely impact our financial position or operations. Even if we prevail in these disputes, they may distract our management from operating our business and the cost of defending these disputes would reduce our operating results. If we do not prevail in these litigation matters or if we are required to expend a significant amount of resources defending such claims, our operating results, financial position, and cash flows could be adversely impacted. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Evolving regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses and continuing uncertainty. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and new SEC regulations are creating uncertainty for public companies. As a result of these new rules, we will incur additional costs associated with its public company reporting requirements. In addition, these new rules could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and this could make it difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors. We are presently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to new and proposed rules and cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. These new or changed laws, regulations, and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations, and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations, and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and we may be harmed. 51 We have limited experience attempting to comply with public company obligations, including Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the SEC has adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company’s internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 10-K. In addition, a registered public accounting firm auditing a public company’s financial statements must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting if we become an accelerated filer in the future. The report of management is included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We are not yet required to include the attestation report of our registered public accounting firm. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our securities. Our common stock is quoted on the Pink Sheets. Our common stock is quoted on the Pink Sheets as opposed to a larger or better accepted market. Thus, an investor might find it more difficult than it would be on a national exchange to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of, our securities. We cannot be certain that an active trading market will develop or, if developed, be sustained. We also cannot be certain that purchasers of our common stock will be able to resell their common stock at prices equal to or greater than their purchase price. The development of a public market having the desirable characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends upon the presence in the marketplace of a sufficient number of willing buyers and sellers at any given time. We do not have any control over whether there will be sufficient numbers of buyers and sellers. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that an established and liquid market for our common stock will develop or be maintained. The market price of the common stock could experience significant fluctuations in response to our operating results and other factors. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. These fluctuations, and general economic and market conditions, may hurt the market price of our common stock. We are also subject to a SEC rule that, if we fail to meet certain criteria set forth in such rule, the rule imposes various sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell securities governed by the rule to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. For these types of transactions, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to sale. Consequently, the rule may have an adverse effect on the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and may affect the ability of our stockholders to buy and sell our securities in the secondary market. The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers may discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in penny stocks, which could reduce the liquidity of the common stock and have a material adverse effect on the trading market for our securities. The price of our stock may be highly volatile. The market price for our common stock is likely to fluctuate due to factors unique to us and along with the highly volatile market prices of securities of biotechnology companies. You may not be able to resell shares of our common stock following periods of volatility. In addition, you may not be able to resell shares at or above your purchase price. Our stock price may be affected by many factors, many of which are outside of our control, which may include: • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; • the results of clinical trials and preclinical studies involving our products or those of our competitors; • changes in the status of any of our drug development programs, including delays in clinical trials or program terminations; • developments in our relationships with other collaborative partners; • developments in patent or other proprietary rights; • governmental regulation; • public concern as to the safety and efficacy of products developed by us, our collaborators or our competitors; • our ability to fund on-going operations; • announcements of technological innovations or new products or services by us or our competitors; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • conditions or trends in the biotechnology industry; and • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other biotechnology companies. 52 We may be unable to obtain necessary additional financing. The capital requirements for our operations have been and will continue to be significant. Our ability to generate cash from operations is dependent upon, among other things, increased demand for our products and services and the successful development of direct marketing and product distribution capabilities. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient capital resources to implement our business plan and we may need additional external debt and/or equity financing to fund our future operations. There may not be a market for our common stock. Upon demonstrating compliance with SEC financial reporting requirements, we will be eligible to list on the OTCQB™ marketplace which was launched in April 2010 by Pink OTC Markets, Inc. to better distinguish OTC securities that are registered and reporting with U.S. regulators. However, our shares will not then be listed on the OTC Bulletin Board or any other trading market. In order for us to qualify for listing on the OTC Bulletin Board, a market maker must complete and submit the appropriate applications to Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) for potential approval. There are no assurances that a market maker will be willing to submit such an application or, if submitted, that FINRA will approve it. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that a holder of our common stock will be able to sell such securities in the future or as to the price at which such securities might trade. The liquidity of the market for such securities and the prices at which such securities trade will depend upon the number of holders thereof, the interest of securities dealers in maintaining a market in such securities and other factors beyond our control. We have not been the subject of an independent valuation. No investment banker or underwriter has been retained to value our common stock. We have not attempted to make any estimate of the prices at which our common stock may trade in the market. Moreover, there can be no assurance given as to the market prices that will prevail. Our shareholders could suffer significant dilution upon the issuance of additional shares. It is possible that we will need to issue additional shares of common stock or securities or warrants convertible into such shares in order to raise additional equity. In such event, our stockholders could suffer significant dilution. We have filed a Petition for Reorganization pursuant to Chapter 11. On November 10, 2008, we and our majority-owned subsidiary, Biovest and other subsidaries, filed a voluntary petition for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code (“Chapter 11”) in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Middle District of Florida, Tampa Division (the “Bankruptcy Court”). During the pendency of the Chapter 11 proceedings, we will operate our business as a debtor in possession in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 11, and will be subject to the jurisdiction of the Bankruptcy Court. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon, among other things, our ability to successfully restructure our indebtedness and to emerge from bankruptcy with a viable plan for reorganization (the “Plan”) and with adequate liquidity. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in formulating or filing an acceptable Plan, or that any such Plan we do file with the Bankruptcy Court will be confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court or successfully implemented by us. We may not be able to obtain confirmation of the Plan. As a debtor seeking confirmation of our Plan, we may not receive the requisite acceptances from our creditors to confirm such Plan. If the requisite acceptances of our Plan are received, we intend to seek confirmation of the Plan by the Bankruptcy Court. If the requisite acceptances of our Plan are not received, we may nevertheless seek confirmation of the Plan notwithstanding the existence of a dissenting class or classes of creditors. The Bankruptcy Court may confirm the Plan pursuant to the “cramdown” provisions of the Bankruptcy Code if the Plan satisfies Section 1129(b) of the Bankruptcy Code. To confirm a plan over the objection of a dissenting class, the Bankruptcy Court also must find that at least one impaired class (which cannot be an “insider” class) has accepted the plan. 53 Even if the requisite acceptances of our proposed Plan are received, the Bankruptcy Court is not obligated to confirm the Plan as proposed. A dissenting holder of a claim against us could challenge the balloting procedures as not being in compliance with the Bankruptcy Code, which could mean that the results of the balloting may be invalid. If the Bankruptcy Court determined that the balloting procedures were appropriate and the results were valid, the Bankruptcy Court could still decline to confirm the Plan, if the Bankruptcy Court found that any of the statutory requirements for confirmation had not been met. If our Plan is not confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court: (a) we may not be able to reorganize our businesses; (b) the distributions that holders of claims ultimately would receive, if any, with respect to their claims are uncertain; and (c) there is no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop, prosecute, confirm, and consummate an alternative plan that will be acceptable to the Bankruptcy Court and the holders of claims. It is also possible that third parties may seek and obtain approval from the Bankruptcy Court to terminate or shorten the exclusivity period during which only we may propose and confirm a plan of reorganization. Our emergence from Chapter 11 is not assured. While we expect to emerge from Chapter 11, there can be no assurance that we will successfully reorganize or when this reorganization will occur, irrespective of our obtaining confirmation of the Plan. The conditions precedent to the effective date of the Plan may not occur. As more fully set forth in the Plan we have filed with the Bankruptcy Court, the effective date of the Plan is subject to a number of conditions precedent, including a final order of confirmation of our Plan by the Bankruptcy Court. If such conditions precedent are not met or waived, the Plan will not become effective. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 