ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks is realized, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, the trading price of our common stock and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, the trading price of our common stock and prospects. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate as a result of numerous factors, many of which may be outside of our control. Our quarterly operating results are likely to fluctuate. Some of the important factors that may cause our revenue, operating results and cash flows to fluctuate from quarter to quarter include: • our ability to attract new customers and retain existing customers; • fluctuations in the value of end customer contracts delivered to us; • fluctuations in close rates; • changes in our commission rates; • seasonality; • loss of customers for any reason including due to acquisition; • the mix of new customers as compared to existing customers; • the length of the sales cycle for our solution, and our level of upfront investments prior to the period we begin generating sales associated with such investments; • the timing of customer payments and payment defaults by customers; • the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to the operations of our business; • the rate of expansion and productivity of our direct sales force; • the cost and timing of the introduction of new technologies or new services, including additional investments in our cloud applications; • general economic conditions; • technical difficulties or interruptions in delivery of our solution; • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; • changes in the effective tax rates; • regulatory compliance costs, including with respect to data privacy; • costs associated with acquisitions of companies and technologies; • extraordinary expenses such as litigation or other dispute-related settlement payments; and • the impact of new accounting pronouncements. Many of the above factors are discussed in more detail elsewhere in these Risk Factors. Many of these factors are outside our control, and the variability and unpredictability of such factors could result in our failing to meet our revenue or operating results expectations for a given period. In addition, the occurrence of one or 9 Table of Contents more of these factors might cause our operating results to vary widely which could lead to negative impacts on our margins, short-term liquidity or ability to retain or attract key personnel, and could cause other unanticipated issues. Accordingly, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenue, operating results and cash flows may not be meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. The market for our solution is relatively undeveloped and may not grow. The market for service revenue management is still relatively undeveloped, has not yet achieved widespread acceptance and may not grow quickly or at all. Our success will depend to a substantial extent on the willingness of companies to engage a third party such as us to manage the sales of their support, maintenance and subscription contracts. Many companies have invested substantial personnel, infrastructure and financial resources in their own internal service revenue organizations and therefore may be reluctant to switch to a solution such as ours. Companies may not engage us for other reasons, including a desire to maintain control over all aspects of their sales activities and customer relations, concerns about end customer reaction, a belief that they can sell their support, maintenance and subscription services more cost-effectively using their internal sales organizations, perceptions about the expenses associated with changing to a new approach and the timing of expenses once they adopt a new approach, general reluctance to adopt any new and different approach to old ways of doing business, or other considerations that may not always be evident. New concerns or considerations may also emerge in the future. Particularly because our market is undeveloped, we must address our potential customers’ concerns and explain the benefits of our approach in order to convince them to change the way that they manage the sales of support, maintenance and subscription contracts. If companies are not sufficiently convinced that we can address their concerns and that the benefits of our solution are compelling, then the market for our solution may not develop as we anticipate and our business will not grow. Our customer relationships and overall business will suffer if we encounter significant problems migrating customers to our next- generation technology platform, or if the new platform does not meet expectations. We have announced plans to launch our next-generation service revenue management platform (code named Avalon) in the latter part of 2012, and we intend to migrate all of our customers to this new technology platform over time. This new platform will be the core foundation for our customer-facing cloud applications, in addition to those we use for our internal operations. We have limited experience migrating customers from one platform to another. Given the complexity and significance of this transition, our customer relationships, our reputation, and our overall business could be severely damaged if these migrations go poorly. Similarly, even if the migrations go smoothly, our business operations and customer relationships will be at high risk if the new platform does not meet our performance expectations, or those of our customers. This could harm our business in numerous ways including, without limitation, a loss of revenue, lost customer contracts, and damage to our reputation. Delayed or unsuccessful investment in new technology, services and markets may harm our financial results. We plan to continue to invest significant resources in research and development in order to enhance our existing offerings and introduce new offerings that will appeal to customers and potential customers. We have undertaken the development of new technology to offer improved and more scalable service revenue management, including enhancements to our applications. The development of new products and services entails a number of risks that could adversely affect our business and operating results, including: • the risk of diverting the attention of our management and our employees from the day-to-day operations of the business; • insufficient revenue to offset increased expenses associated with research, development, operational and marketing activities; and • write-offs of the value of such technology investments as a result of unsuccessful implementation or otherwise. 10 Table of Contents If our new or modified technology does not work as intended, is not responsive to user preferences or industry or regulatory changes, is not appropriately timed with market opportunity, or is not effectively brought to market, we may lose existing and potential customers or related service revenue opportunities, in which case our results of operations may suffer. The cost of future development of new service revenue management offerings or technologies also could require us to raise additional debt or equity financing. These actions could negatively impact the ownership percentages of our existing stockholders, our financial condition or our results of operations. We may choose to sell subscriptions to our cloud applications separately from our integrated solution, which may not be successful and could impact revenue from our existing solution. We currently derive a small portion of our revenue from subscriptions to our cloud applications for a few customers, and we are exploring alternatives for packaging and pricing these applications to generate more revenues from them. In the event we choose to expand our technology subscriptions in this manner, we may not find a successful market for our applications. In addition, because we have limited prior experience selling technology subscriptions on a stand-alone basis, we may encounter technical and execution challenges that undermine the quality of the technology offering or cause us to fall short of customer expectations. We also have little experience in pricing our technology subscriptions separately, which could result in under pricing that damages our profit margins and other financial performance. It is also possible that selling a technology solution separate from our integrated solution will result in a reduction in sales of our current offerings that we might otherwise have sold. An unsuccessful expansion of our business to promote a stand-alone subscription model for any of the foregoing reasons or otherwise would lead to a diversion of financial and managerial resources from our existing business and an inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset our investment costs. Our estimates of service revenue opportunity under management and other metrics may prove inaccurate. We use various estimates in formulating our business plans and analyzing our potential and historical performance, including our estimate of service revenue opportunity under management. We base our estimates upon a number of assumptions that are inherently subject to significant business and economic uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. Our estimates therefore may prove inaccurate. Service revenue opportunity under management (“opportunity under management”) is a forward-looking metric and is our estimate, as of a given date, of the value of all end customer service contracts that we will have the opportunity to sell on behalf of our customers over the subsequent twelve-month period. Opportunity under management is not a measure of our expected revenue. We estimate the value of such end customer contracts based on a combination of factors, including the value of end customer contracts made available to us by customers in past periods, the minimum value of end customer contracts that our customers are required to give us the opportunity to sell pursuant to the terms of their contracts with us, periodic internal business reviews of our expectations as to the value of end customer contracts that will be made available to us by customers, the value of end customer contracts included in the Service Performance Analysis (“SPA”) and collaborative discussions with our customers assessing their expectations as to the value of service contracts that they will make available to us for sale. While the minimum value of end customer contracts that our customers are required to give us represents a portion of our estimated opportunity under management, a significant portion of the opportunity under management is estimated based on the other factors described above. When estimating service revenue opportunity under management and other similar metrics, we must, to a large degree, rely on the assumptions described above, which may prove incorrect. These assumptions are inherently subject to significant business and economic uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. Our estimates therefore may prove inaccurate, causing the actual value of end customer contracts delivered to us in a given twelve-month period to differ from our estimate of opportunity under management. These factors include: • the extent to which customers deliver a greater or lesser value of end customer contracts than may be required or otherwise expected; 11 Table of Contents • roll-overs of unsold service contract renewals from prior periods to the current period or future periods; • changes in the pricing or terms of service contracts offered by our customers; • increases or decreases in the end customer base of our customers; • the extent to which the renewal rates we achieve on behalf of a customer early in an engagement affect the amount of opportunity that the customer makes available to us later in the engagement; • customer cancellations of their contracts with us due to acquisitions or otherwise; and • changes in our customers’ businesses, sales organizations, sales processes or priorities. In addition, opportunity under management reflects our estimate for a forward twelve-month period and should not be used to estimate our opportunity for any particular quarter within that period. If our security measures are breached or fail, resulting in unauthorized access to customer data, our solution may be perceived as insecure, the attractiveness of our solution to current or potential customers may be reduced and we may incur significant liabilities. Our solution involves the storage and transmission of the proprietary information and protected data that we receive from our customers. We rely on proprietary and commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring, as well as other processes, to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of such information. If our security measures are breached or fail as a result of third-party action, employee negligence, error, malfeasance or otherwise, unauthorized access to customer or end customer data may occur. Improper activities by third parties, advances in computer and software capabilities and encryption technology, new tools and discoveries and other events or developments may facilitate or result in a compromise or breach of our computer systems. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventive measures. Our security measures may not be effective in preventing these types of activities, and the security measures of our third-party data centers and service providers may not be adequate. Our customer contracts generally provide that we will indemnify our customers for data privacy breaches. If such a breach occurs, we could face contractual damages, damages and fees arising from our indemnification obligations, penalties for violation of applicable laws or regulations, possible lawsuits by affected individuals and significant remediation costs and efforts to prevent future occurrences. In addition, whether there is an actual or a perceived breach of our security, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed significantly and we could lose current or potential customers. We may be liable to our customers or third parties if we make errors in providing our solution or fail to properly safeguard their confidential information. The solution we offer is complex, and we make errors from time to time. These may include human errors made in the course of managing the sales process for our customers as we interact with their end customers, or errors arising from our technology solution as it interacts with our customers’ systems and the disparate data contained on such systems. The costs incurred in correcting any material errors may be substantial. In addition, as part of our business, we collect, process and analyze confidential information provided by our customers and prospective customers. Although we take significant steps to safeguard the confidentiality of customer information, we could be subject to claims that we disclosed their information without appropriate authorization or used their information inappropriately. Any claims based on errors or unauthorized disclosure or use of information could subject us to exposure for damages, significant legal defense costs, adverse publicity and reputational harm, regardless of the merits or eventual outcome of such claims. 12 Table of Contents If close rates fall short of our predictions, our revenue will suffer and our ability to grow and achieve broader market acceptance of our solution could be harmed. Given our pay-for-performance pricing model, our revenue is directly tied to close rates. Close rates represent the percentage of the actual opportunity delivered that we renew on behalf of our customers. If the close rate for a particular customer is lower than anticipated, then our revenue for that customer will also be lower than projected. If close rates fall short of expectations across a broad range of customers, or if they fall below expectations for a particularly large customer, then the impact on our revenue and our overall business will be significant. In the event close rates are lower than expected for a given customer, our margins will suffer because we will have already incurred a certain level of costs in both personnel and infrastructure to support the engagement. This risk is compounded by the fact that many of our customer relationships are terminable if we fail to meet certain specified sales targets over a sustained period of time. If actual close rates fall to a level at which our revenue and customer contracts are at risk, then our financial performance will decline and we will be severely compromised in our ability to retain and attract customers. Increasing our customer base and achieving broader market acceptance of our solution depends, to a large extent, on how effectively our solution increases service sales. As a result, poor performance with respect to our close rates, in addition to causing our revenue, margins and earnings to suffer, will likely damage our reputation and prevent us from effectively developing and maintaining awareness of our brand or achieving widespread acceptance of our solution, in which case we could fail to grow our business and our revenue, margins and earnings would suffer. Our revenue will decline if there is a decrease in the overall demand for our customers’ products and services for which we provide service revenue management. Our revenue is based on a pay-for-performance model under which we are paid a commission based on the service contracts we sell on behalf of our customers. If a particular customer’s products or services fail to appeal to its end customers, our revenue may decline. In addition, if end customer demand decreases for other reasons, such as negative news regarding our customers or their products, unfavorable economic conditions, shifts in strategy by our customers away from promoting the service contracts we sell in favor of selling their other products or services to their end customers, or if end customers experience financial constraints and fail to renew the service contracts we sell, we may experience a decrease in our revenue as the demand for our customers’ service contracts declines. If we are unable to compete effectively against current and future competitors, our business and operating results will be harmed. The market for service revenue management is evolving. Historically, technology companies have managed their service renewals through internal personnel and relied upon technology ranging from Excel spreadsheets to internally-developed software to customized versions of traditional business intelligence tools and CRM or ERP software from vendors such as Oracle, SAP, salesforce.com and NetSuite. Some companies have made further investments in this area using firms such as Accenture and McKinsey for technology consulting and education services focused on service renewals. These internally-developed solutions represent the primary alternative to our integrated approach. We also face direct competition from smaller companies that offer specialized service revenue management solutions, typically providing technology for use by their customers’ internal sales personnel. We believe the principal competitive factors in our markets include the following: • service revenue industry expertise, best practices, and benchmarks; • performance-based pricing of solutions; • ability to increase service revenue, renewal rates, and close rates; • global capabilities; • completeness of solution; 13 Table of Contents • ability to effectively represent customer brands to end customers and channel partners; • size of upfront investment; and • size and financial stability of operations. We believe that more competitors will emerge. These competitors may have greater name recognition, longer operating histories, well-established relationships with customers in our markets and substantially greater financial, technical, personnel and other resources than we have. Potential competitors of any size may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or customer or end customer requirements. Even if our solution is more effective than competing solutions, potential customers might choose new entrants unless we can convince them of the advantages of our integrated solution. We expect competition and competitive pressure, from both new and existing competitors, to increase in the future. If there is a widespread shift away from business customers purchasing maintenance and support service contracts, we could be adversely impacted if we are not able to adapt to new trends or expand our target markets. As a result of our historical concentration in the software and hardware industries, a significant portion of our revenue comes from the sale of maintenance and support service contracts for the software and hardware products used by our customers’ end customers. Although we also sell other types of renewals, such as subscriptions to software-as-a-service offerings, those sales have to date constituted a relatively small portion of our revenue. The emergence of cloud computing and other alternative technology purchasing models, in which technology services are provided on a remote-access basis, may have a significant impact on the size of the market for traditional maintenance and support contracts. If these alternative models continue gaining traction and reduce the size of our traditional market, we will need to continue to adapt our solution to capitalize on these trends or our results of operations will suffer. The loss of one or more of our key customers could slow our revenue growth or cause our revenue to decline. A substantial portion of our revenue has to date come from a relatively small number of customers. During the year ended December 31, 2011, our top ten customers accounted for 47% of our revenue with one customer representing over 10% of our revenue. A relatively small number of customers may continue to account for a significant portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. The loss of any of our significant customers for any reason, including the failure to renew our contracts, a change of relationship with any of our key customers or their acquisition as discussed below, may cause a significant decrease in our revenue. Supporting our existing and growing customer base could strain our personnel resources and infrastructure, and if we cannot scale our operations and increase productivity, we may be unsuccessful in implementing our business plan. In recent periods, we have experienced significant growth in our customer base, which has placed a strain on our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. We anticipate that additional investments in sales personnel, information technology, infrastructure and research and development spending will be required to: • scale our operations and increase productivity; • address the needs of our customers; • further develop and enhance our solution and offerings; • develop new technology; and • expand our markets and opportunity under management, including into new industry verticals and geographic areas. 14 Table of Contents Our success will depend in part upon our ability to manage our growth effectively. To do so, we must continue to increase the productivity of our existing employees and to hire, train and manage new employees as needed. To manage domestic and international growth of our operations and personnel, we will need to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting processes and procedures, and implement more extensive and integrated financial and business information systems. These additional investments will increase our operating costs, which will make it more difficult for us to offset any future revenue shortfalls by reducing expenses in the short term. Moreover, if we fail to scale our operations successfully and increase productivity, our overall business will be at risk. Consolidation in the technology sector is continuing at a rapid pace, which could harm our business in the event that our customers are acquired and their contracts are cancelled. Consolidation among technology companies in our target market has been robust in recent years, and this trend poses a risk for us. Acquisitions of our customers could lead to cancellation of our contracts with those customers by the acquiring companies and could reduce the number of our existing and potential customers. For example, Oracle has acquired a number of our customers in recent years, including our then largest customer, Sun Microsystems, in January 2010, and another customer, BEA Systems, in April 2008. Oracle has elected to terminate our service contracts with each customer because Oracle conducts its service revenue management internally. If mergers and acquisitions continue, we expect that some of the acquiring companies, and Oracle in particular, will terminate, renegotiate and/or elect not to renew our contracts with the companies they acquire, which would reduce our revenue. We enter into long-term, commission-based contracts with our customers, and our failure to correctly price these contracts may negatively affect our profitability. We enter into long-term contracts with our customers that are priced based on multiple factors determined in large part by the SPA we conduct for our customers. These factors include opportunity size, anticipated close rates and expected commission rates at various levels of sales performance. Some of these factors require forward looking assumptions that may prove incorrect. If our assumptions are inaccurate, or if we otherwise fail to correctly price our customer contracts, particularly those with lengthy contract terms, then our revenue, profitability and overall business operations may suffer. Further, if we fail to anticipate any unexpected increase in our cost of providing services, including the costs for employees, office space or technology, we could be exposed to risks associated with cost overruns related to our required performance under our contracts, which could have a negative effect on our margins and earnings. Many of our customer contracts allow termination for our failure to meet certain performance conditions. Although most of our customer contracts are subject to multi-year terms, these agreements often have termination rights if we fail to meet specified sales targets. During the SPA and contract negotiation phase with a customer, we typically negotiate minimum performance levels for the engagement. If we fail to meet our required targets and our customers choose to exercise their termination rights, our revenue could decline. These termination rights may also create instability in our revenue forecasts and other forward looking financial metrics. Our business may be harmed if our customers rely upon our service revenue forecasts in their business and actual results are materially different. The contracts that we enter into with our customers provide for sharing of information with respect to forecasts and plans for the renewal of maintenance, support and subscription agreements of our customers. Our customers may use such forecasted data for a variety of purposes related to their business. Our forecasts are based upon the data our customers provide to us, and are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, these forecasted expectations are 15 Table of Contents based upon historical trends and data that may not be true in subsequent periods. Any material inaccuracies related to these forecasts could lead to claims on the part of our customers related to the accuracy of the forecasted data we provide to them, or the appropriateness of our methodology. Any liability that we incur or any harm to our brand that we suffer because of inaccuracies in the forecasted data we provide to our customers could impact our ability to retain existing customers and harm our brand and, ultimately, our business. Changing global economic conditions and large scale economic shifts may impact our business. Our overall performance depends in part on worldwide economic conditions that impact the technology sector and other technology-enabled industries such as healthcare, life sciences and industrial systems. For example, the recent economic downturn resulted in many businesses deferring technology investments, including purchases of new software, hardware and other equipment, and purchases of additional or supplemental maintenance, support and subscription services. To a certain extent, these businesses also slowed the rate of renewals of maintenance, support and subscription services for their existing technology base. A future downturn could cause business customers to stop renewing their existing maintenance, support and subscription agreements or contracting for additional maintenance services as they look for ways to further cut expenses, in which case our business could suffer. Conversely, a significant upturn in global economic conditions could cause business purchasers to purchase new hardware, software and other technology products, which we generally do not sell, instead of renewing or otherwise purchasing maintenance, support and subscription services for their existing products. A general shift toward new product sales could reduce our near term opportunities for these contracts, which could lead to a decline in our revenue. Our inability to expand our target markets could adversely impact our business and operating results. We derive substantially all of our revenue from customers in certain sectors in the technology and technology-enabled healthcare and life sciences industries, and an important part of our strategy is to expand our existing customer base and win new customers in these industries. In addition, because of the service revenue opportunities that we believe exist beyond these industries, we intend to target new customers in additional industry vertical markets, such as technology-enabled building services. In connection with the expansion of our target markets, we may not have familiarity with such additional industry verticals, and our execution of such expansion could face risks where our Service Revenue Intelligence Platform is less developed within a particular new vertical. We may encounter customers in these previously untapped markets that have different pricing and other business sensitivities than we are used to managing. As a result of these and other factors, our efforts to expand our solution to additional industry vertical markets may not succeed, may divert management resources from our existing operations and may require us to commit significant financial resources to unproven parts of our business, all of which may harm our financial performance. Our business and growth depend substantially on customers renewing their agreements with us and expanding their use of our solution for additional available markets. Any decline in our customer renewals or failure to expand their relationships with us could harm our future operating results. In order for us to improve our operating results and grow, it is important that our customers renew their agreements with us when the initial contract term expires and that we expand our customer relationships to add new market opportunities and related service revenue opportunity under management. Our customers may elect not to renew their contracts with us after the initial terms have expired, and we cannot assure you that our customers will renew service contracts with us at the same or higher level of service, if at all, or provide us with the opportunity to manage additional opportunity. Although our renewal rates have been historically higher than those achieved by our customers prior to their using our solution, some customers have elected not to renew their agreements with us. Our customers’ renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our solution and results, our pricing, mergers and acquisitions 16 Table of Contents affecting our customers or their end customers, the effects of economic conditions or reductions in our customers’ or their end customers’ spending levels. If our customers do not renew their agreements with us, renew on less favorable terms or fail to contract with us for additional service revenue management opportunities, our revenue may decline and we may not realize improved operating results and growth from our customer base. A substantial portion of our business consists of supporting our customers’ channel partners in the sale of service contracts. If those channel partners become unreceptive to our solution, our business could be harmed. Many of our customers, including some of our largest customers, sell service contracts through their channel partners and engage our solution to help those channel partners become more effective at selling service contract renewals. These channel partners may have access to some of our cloud applications, such as our Channel Sales Cloud, in addition to other sales support services we provide. In this context, the ultimate buyers of the service contracts are end customers of those channel partners, who then receive the actual services from our customers. In the event our customers’ channel partners become unreceptive to our involvement in the renewals process, those channel partners could discourage our current or future customers from engaging our solution to support channel sales. This risk is compounded by the fact that large channel partners may have relationships with more than one of our customers or prospects, in which case the negative reaction of one or more of those large channel partners could impact multiple customer relationships. Accordingly, with respect to those customers and prospective customers who sell service contracts through channel partners, any significant resistance to our solution by their channel partners could harm our ability to attract or retain customers, which would damage our overall business operations. We face long sales cycles to secure new customer contracts, making it difficult to predict the timing of specific new customer relationships. We face a variable selling cycle to secure new customer agreements, typically spanning a number of months and requiring our effort to obtain and analyze our prospect’s business through the SPA, for which we are not paid. Moreover, even if we succeed in developing a relationship with a potential new customer, the scope of the potential service revenue management engagement frequently changes over the course of the business discussions and, for a variety of reasons, our sales discussions may fail to result in new customer acquisitions. Consequently, we have only a limited ability to predict the timing and size of specific new customer relationships. If we experience significant fluctuations in our anticipated growth rate and fail to balance our expenses with our revenue forecasts, our results could be harmed. Due to our evolving business model, the uncertain size of our markets and the unpredictability of future general economic and financial market conditions, we may not be able to accurately forecast our growth rate. We plan our expense levels and investments based on estimates of future sales performance for our customers with respect to their end customers, future revenue and future customer acquisition. If our assumptions prove incorrect, we may not be able to adjust our spending quickly enough to offset the resulting decline in growth and revenue. Consequently, we expect that our gross margins, operating margins and cash flows may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis. If we cannot efficiently implement our offering for customers, we may be delayed in generating revenue, fail to generate revenue and/or incur significant costs. In general, our customer engagements are complex and may require lengthy and significant work to implement our offerings. As a result, we generally incur sales and marketing expenses related to the commissions owed to our sales representatives and make upfront investments in technology and personnel to support the engagements one to three months before we begin selling end customer contracts. Each customer’s situation may 17 Table of Contents be different, and unanticipated difficulties and delays may arise as a result of our failure, or that of our customer, to meet respective implementation responsibilities. If the customer implementation process is not executed successfully or if execution is delayed, we could incur significant costs without yet generating revenue, and our relationships with some of our customers may be adversely impacted. Because competition for our target employees is intense, we may be unable to attract and retain the highly skilled employees we need to support our planned growth. To continue to execute on our growth plan, we must attract and retain highly qualified sales representatives, engineers and other key employees in the international markets in which we have operations. Competition for these personnel is intense, especially for highly educated, qualified sales representatives. We have from time to time in the past experienced, and we expect to continue to experience in the future, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled key employees with appropriate qualifications. If we fail to attract new sales representatives, engineers and other key employees, or fail to retain and motivate our most successful employees, our business and future growth prospects could be harmed. The length of time it takes our newly-hired sales representatives to become productive could adversely impact our success rate, the execution of our overall business plan and our costs. It can take twelve months or longer before our internal sales representatives are fully trained and productive in selling our solution to prospects and customers. This long ramp period presents a number of operational challenges as the cost of recruiting, hiring and carrying new sales representatives cannot be offset by the revenue such new sales representatives produce until after they complete their long ramp periods. Further, given the length of the ramp period, we often cannot determine if a sales representative will succeed until he or she has been employed for a year or more. If we cannot reliably develop our sales representatives to a productive level, or if we lose productive representatives in whom we have heavily invested, our future growth rates and revenue will suffer. If we lose our top executives, or if we are unable to attract, hire, integrate and retain key personnel and other necessary employees, our business will be harmed. Our future success depends on the continued contributions of our executives, each of whom may be difficult to replace. Our future success also depends in part on our ability to attract, hire, integrate and retain qualified service sales personnel, sales representatives and management level employees to oversee such sales forces. In particular, Michael Smerklo, our chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer, is critical to the management of our business and operations and the development of our strategic direction. The loss of Mr. Smerklo’s services or those of our other executives, or our inability to continue to attract and retain high-quality talent, could harm our business. We depend on revenue from sources outside the United States, and our international business operations and expansion plans are subject to risks related to international operations, and may not increase our revenue growth or enhance our business operations. For the year ended December 31, 2011, approximately 38% of our revenue was generated from sales centers located outside of the United States. As a result of our continued focus on international markets, we expect that future revenue derived from international sources will continue to represent a significant portion of our total revenue. A portion of the sales commissions earned from our international customers is paid in foreign currencies. As a result, fluctuations in the value of these foreign currencies may make our solution more expensive or cause resulting fluctuations in cost for international customers, which could harm our business. We currently do not undertake hedging activities to manage these currency fluctuations. In addition, if the effective price of the 18 Table of Contents contracts we sell to the end customers were to increase as a result of fluctuations in the exchange rate of the relevant currencies, demand for such contracts could fall, which in turn would reduce our revenue. Our growth strategy includes further expansion into international markets. Our international expansion may require significant additional financial resources and management attention, and could negatively affect our financial condition, cash flows and operating results. In addition, we may be exposed to associated risks and challenges, including: • the need to localize and adapt our solution for specific countries, including translation into foreign languages and associated expenses; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • different pricing environments, longer sales cycles and longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • new and different sources of competition; • weaker protection for our intellectual property than in the United States and practical difficulties in enforcing our rights abroad; • laws and business practices favoring local competitors; • compliance obligations related to multiple, conflicting and changing foreign governmental laws and regulations, including employment, tax, privacy and data protection laws and regulations; • increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; • restrictions on the transfer of funds; • adverse tax consequences; and • unstable regional and economic political conditions. We cannot assure you we will succeed in creating additional international demand for our solution or that we will be able to effectively sell service agreements in all of the international markets we enter. We could experience significant problems implementing various new business software applications, including our new financial ERP system, which may negatively impact our internal operations. We are in the process of upgrading and/or replacing various software systems, including our financial ERP system. If the implementations of these new applications are delayed, or if we encounter unforeseen problems with our new systems or in migrating away from our existing applications and systems, our operations and our ability to plan and forecast our business could be negatively impacted. We incur increased costs and demands upon management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies, which could adversely affect our operating results. As a newly public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, and greater expenditures may be necessary in the future with the advent of new laws, regulations and stock exchange listing requirements pertaining to public companies. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC, impose various requirements on public companies, including establishing effective internal controls and certain corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives, and additional laws and regulations may divert further management resources. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of new compliance initiatives in a timely manner, the market price of our stock 19 Table of Contents could decline, and we could be subject to investigations and other actions by The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. In particular, we are required to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting in connection with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to attest to our internal control over financial reporting starting with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2012. This assessment will need to include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by our management, as well as our independent registered public accounting firm’s report on our internal control over financial reporting. Compiling the system and processing documentation needed to comply with such requirements is costly and challenging, and as a public company and to manage our growth, we are required to implement and maintain various other control and business systems related to our equity, finance, treasury, information technology, other recordkeeping systems and other operations. We may not be able to complete our evaluation, testing and any required remediation in a timely fashion. During the evaluation and testing processes, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, or if we are unable to remedy any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting or implement or maintain other effective control or business systems, our financial statements may be inaccurate, we may face restricted access to the capital markets and our stock price may be adversely affected. Changes in the U.S. and foreign legal and regulatory environment that affect our operations, including those relating to privacy, data security and cross-border data flows, could pose a significant risk to our company by disrupting our business and increasing our expenses. We are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations in the United States and the other jurisdictions in which we operate, and changes in the level of government regulation of our business have the potential to materially alter our business practices with resultant increases in costs and decreases in profitability. Depending on the jurisdiction, those changes may come about through new legislation, the issuance of new regulations or changes in the interpretation of existing laws and regulations by a court, regulatory body or governmental official. Sometimes those changes may have both prospective and retroactive effect, which is particularly true when a change is made through reinterpretation of laws or regulations that have been in effect for some time. Privacy and data security are rapidly evolving areas of regulation, and additional regulation in those areas, some of it potentially difficult and costly for us to accommodate, is frequently proposed and occasionally adopted. Laws in many countries and jurisdictions, particularly in the European Union and Canada, govern the requirements related to how we store, transfer or otherwise process the private data provided to us by our customers. In addition, the centralized nature of our information systems at the data and operations centers that we use requires the routine flow of data relating to our customers and their respective end customers across national borders, both with respect to the jurisdictions within which we have operations and the jurisdictions in which we provide services to our customers. If this flow of data becomes subject to new or different restrictions, our ability to serve our customers and their respective customers could be seriously impaired for an extended period of time. For example, we participate in the U.S. Department of Commerce Safe Harbor Framework to govern our treatment of data and data flow with respect to our customers and their respective customers across various jurisdictions. We also have entered into various model contracts and related contractual provisions to enable these data flows. For any jurisdictions in which these measures are not recognized or otherwise not compliant with the laws of the countries in which we process data, or where more stringent data privacy laws are enacted irrespective of international treaty arrangements or other existing compliance mechanisms, we could face increased compliance expenses and face penalties for violating such laws or be excluded from those markets altogether, in which case our operations could be materially damaged. 20 Table of Contents If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position and our business may suffer. We rely upon a combination of trademark, copyright and trade secret law and contractual terms to protect our intellectual property rights, all of which provide only limited protection. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to establish, protect and enforce our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. If we fail to protect or effectively enforce our intellectual property rights, others may be able to compete against us using intellectual property that is the same as or similar to our own. In addition, we cannot assure you that our intellectual property rights are sufficient to provide us with a competitive advantage against others who offer services similar to ours. While we have no patents or pending patent applications, we may file patent applications in the future. If we do file patent applications, we cannot assure you that any issued patents arising from future applications will provide the protection we seek, or that any future patents issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Also, we cannot assure you that we will obtain any copyright or trademark registrations from our pending or future applications or that any of our trademarks will be enforceable or provide adequate protection of our proprietary rights. We also rely in some circumstances on trade secrets to protect our technology. Trade secrets may lose their value if not properly protected. We endeavor to enter into non-disclosure agreements with our employees, customers, contractors and business partners to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. The steps we have taken, however, may not prevent unauthorized use of our technology, and adequate remedies may not be available in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and proprietary technology. However, trade secret protection does not prevent others from reverse engineering or independently developing similar technologies. In addition, reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our trade secrets could enable third parties to benefit from our technology without paying for it. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our intellectual property and using our technology for their competitive advantage. Any such infringement or misappropriation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Monitoring infringement of our intellectual property rights can be difficult and costly, and enforcement of our intellectual property rights may require us to bring legal actions against infringers. Infringement actions are inherently uncertain and therefore may not be successful, even when our rights have been infringed. Even if such actions are successful, they may require a substantial amount of resources and divert our management’s attention. Claims by others that we infringe or violate their intellectual property could force us to incur significant costs and require us to change the way we conduct our business. Numerous technology companies including potential competitors protect their intellectual property rights by means such as patents, trade secrets, copyrights and trademarks. We have not conducted an independent review of patents issued to third parties. Additionally, because patent applications in the United States and many other jurisdictions are kept confidential for 18 months before they are published, we may be unaware of pending patent applications that relate to our proprietary technology. From time to time we may receive letters from other parties alleging, or inquiring about, possible breaches of their intellectual property rights. Any party asserting that we infringe its proprietary rights would force us to defend ourselves, and possibly our customers, against the alleged infringement. The technology industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Moreover, the risk of such a lawsuit will likely increase as we become larger, the scope of our solution and technology expands and the number of competitors in our market increases. Any such claims or litigation could: • be time-consuming and expensive to defend, and deplete our financial resources, whether meritorious or not; 21 Table of Contents • require us to stop providing the services that use the technology that infringes the other party’s intellectual property; • divert the attention of our technical and managerial resources away from our business; • require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements with third parties, which may not be available on terms that we deem acceptable, if at all; • prevent us from operating all or a portion of our business or force us to redesign our technology, which could be difficult and expensive and may make the performance or value of our solution less attractive; • subject us to significant liability for damages or result in significant settlement payments; or • require us to indemnify our customers as we are required by contract to indemnify some of our customers for certain claims based upon the infringement or alleged infringement of any third party’s intellectual property rights resulting from our customers’ use of our intellectual property. During the course of any intellectual property litigation, confidential information may be disclosed in the form of documents or testimony in connection with discovery requests, depositions or trial testimony. Disclosure of our confidential information and our involvement in intellectual property litigation could harm us. In addition, any uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could significantly limit our ability to continue our operations and could harm our relationships with current and prospective customers. Any of the foregoing could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, we may incorporate open source software into our technology solution. The terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by United States or foreign courts, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our commercialization of any of our solutions that may include open source software. As a result, we will be required to analyze and monitor our use of open source software closely. As a result of the use of open source software, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to develop such future products, re-engineer our products, discontinue sales of our solutions or release our software code under the terms of an open source license to the public. Given the nature of open source software, there is also a risk that third parties may assert copyright and other intellectual property infringement claims against us based on any use of such open source software, as more generally discussed with respect to general intellectual property claims. Various risks could affect our worldwide operations, including numerous events outside of our control, exposing us to significant costs that could adversely affect our operations and customer confidence. We conduct operations throughout the world, including our headquarters in the United States and various operations in Ireland, Malaysia, Singapore and the United Kingdom. Such worldwide operations expose us to potential operational disruptions and costs as a result of a wide variety of events, including local inflation or economic downturn, currency exchange fluctuations, political turmoil, labor issues, terrorism, natural disasters and pandemics. Any such disruptions or costs could have a negative effect on our ability to provide our solution or meet our contractual obligations, the cost of our solution, customer satisfaction, our ability to attract or maintain customers, and, ultimately, our profits. Natural disasters or other catastrophic events may cause damage or disruption to our operations, international commerce and the global economy, and thus could have a strong negative effect on us. Our business operations are subject to interruption by natural disasters, fire, power shortages, pandemics and other events beyond our control. Such events could make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver our solution to our customers, and could decrease demand for our solution. The majority of our research and development activities, corporate headquarters, information technology systems and other critical business operations are located near major seismic faults in the San Francisco Bay Area. Because we may not have insurance coverage that would 22 Table of Contents cover quake-related losses, and significant recovery time could be required to resume operations, our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected in the event of a major earthquake or catastrophic event. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may adversely affect worldwide financial markets and could potentially lead to economic recession, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. These events could adversely affect our customers’ levels of business activity and precipitate sudden significant changes in regional and global economic conditions and cycles. The technology we currently use may not operate properly, which could damage our reputation, give rise to claims against us or divert application of our resources from other purposes, any of which could harm our business and operating results. The technology we currently use, which includes our cloud based applications as well as the technology components of our Service Revenue Intelligence Platform, may contain or develop unexpected defects or errors. There can be no assurance that performance problems or defects in our technology will not arise in the future. Errors may result from receipt, entry or interpretation of customer or end customer information or from the interface of our technology with legacy systems and data that are outside of our control. Despite testing, defects or errors may arise in our solution. Any defects and errors that we discover in our technology and any failure by us to identify and effectively address them could result in loss of revenue or market share, liability to customers or others, failure to achieve market acceptance or expansion, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation, and increased costs. Defects or errors in our technology may discourage existing or potential customers from contracting with us. Correction of defects or errors could prove impossible or impracticable. The costs incurred in correcting any defects or errors or in responding to resulting claims or liability may be substantial and could adversely affect our operating results. Disruptions in service or damage to the data center that hosts our data and our locations could adversely affect our business. Our operations depend on our ability to maintain and protect our data servers and cloud applications, which are located in a data center operated for us by a third party. We cannot control or assure the continued or uninterrupted availability of this third-party data center. In addition, our information technologies and systems, as well as our data center, are vulnerable to damage or interruption from various causes, including natural disasters, war and acts of terrorism and power losses, computer systems failures, Internet and telecommunications or data network failures, operator error, losses of and corruption of data and similar events. Although we conduct business continuity planning and maintain certain insurance for certain events, the situations for which we plan, and the amount of insurance coverage we maintain, may prove inadequate in any particular case. In addition, the occurrence of any of these events could result in interruptions, delays or cessations in the delivery of the solutions we offer to our customers. Any of these events could impair or prohibit our ability to provide our solution, reduce the attractiveness of our solution to current or potential customers and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, despite the implementation of security measures, our infrastructure, data center, operations and other centers or systems that we interface with, including the Internet and related systems, may be vulnerable to physical intrusions, hackers, improper employee or contractor access, computer viruses, programming errors, denial-of-service attacks or other attacks by third parties. Any failure or interruptions in the Internet infrastructure, bandwidth providers, data center providers, other third parties or our own systems for providing our solution to customers could negatively impact our business. Our ability to deliver our solution is dependent on the development and maintenance of the infrastructure of the Internet and other telecommunications services by third parties. Such services include maintenance of a reliable network backbone with the necessary speed, data capacity and security for providing reliable Internet access and services and reliable telecommunications systems that connect our global operations. While our 23 Table of Contents solution is designed to operate without interruption, we have experienced and expect that we will in the future experience interruptions and delays in services and availability from time to time. We rely on internal systems as well as third-party vendors, including data center, bandwidth, and telecommunications equipment providers, to provide our solution. We do not maintain redundant systems or facilities for some of these services. In the event of a catastrophic event with respect to one or more of these systems or facilities, we may experience an extended period of system unavailability, which could negatively impact our relationship with our customers. Additional government regulations may reduce the size of market for our solution, harm demand for our solution and increase our costs of doing business. Any changes in government regulations that impact our customers or their end customers could have a harmful effect on our business by reducing the size of our addressable market or otherwise increasing our costs. For example, with respect to our technology-enabled healthcare and life sciences customers, any change in U.S. Food and Drug Administration or foreign equivalent regulation of, or denial, withholding or withdrawal of approval of, our customers’ products could lead to a lack of demand for service revenue management with respect to such products. Other changes in government regulations, in areas such as privacy, export compliance or anti-bribery statutes, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, could require us to implement changes in our services or operations that increase our cost of doing business and thereby hurt our financial performance. The future success of our business depends upon the continued use of the Internet as a primary medium for commerce, communication and business applications. Federal, state or foreign government bodies or agencies have in the past adopted, and may in the future adopt, laws or regulations affecting data privacy and the use of the Internet as a commercial medium. In addition, government agencies or private organizations may begin to impose taxes, fees or other charges for accessing the Internet. These laws or charges could limit the growth of Internet-related commerce or communications generally, result in a decline in the use of the Internet and the viability of Internet-based applications such as ours and reduce the demand for our solution. We operate and offer our services in many jurisdictions and, therefore, may be subject to state, local and foreign taxes that could harm our business. We operate service sales centers in multiple locations. Some of the jurisdictions in which we operate, such as Ireland, give us the benefit of either relatively low tax rates, tax holidays or government grants, in each case that are dependent on how we operate or how many jobs we create and employees we retain. We plan on utilizing such tax incentives in the future as opportunities are made available to us. Any failure on our part to operate in conformity with applicable requirements to remain qualified for any such tax incentives or grants may result in an increase in our taxes. In addition, jurisdictions may choose to increase rates at any time due to economic or other factors, such as the current economic situation in Ireland. Any such rate increases may harm our results of operations. In addition, we may lose sales or incur significant costs should various tax jurisdictions impose taxes on either a broader range of services or services that we have performed in the past. We may be subject to audits of the taxing authorities in any such jurisdictions that would require us to incur costs in responding to such audits. Imposition of such taxes on our services could result in substantial unplanned costs, would effectively increase the cost of such services to our customers and may adversely affect our ability to retain existing customers or to gain new customers in the areas in which such taxes are imposed. If we acquire companies or technologies in the future, they could prove difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely affect our operating results and the value of our common stock. As part of our business strategy, we may acquire, enter into joint ventures with, or make investments in companies, services and technologies that we believe to be complementary. Acquisitions and investments involve numerous risks, including: • difficulties in identifying and acquiring technologies or businesses that will help our business; 24 Table of Contents • difficulties in integrating operations, technologies, services and personnel; • diversion of financial and managerial resources from existing operations; • the risk of entering new markets in which we have little to no experience; • risks related to the assumption of known and unknown liabilities; • potential litigation by third parties, such as claims related to intellectual property or other assets acquired or liabilities assumed; • the risk of write-offs of goodwill and other intangible assets; • delays in customer engagements due to uncertainty and the inability to maintain relationships with customers of the acquired businesses; • inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition or investment costs; • incurrence of acquisition-related costs; • harm to our existing business relationships with business partners and customers as a result of the acquisition; • the key personnel of the acquired entity or business may decide not to work for us or may not perform according to our expectations; and • use of substantial portions of our available cash or dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt to consummate the acquisition. As a result, if we fail to properly evaluate acquisitions or investments, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of any such acquisitions, we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate and management resources and attention may be diverted from other necessary or valuable activities. Risks Relating to Owning Our Common Stock Our share price has been volatile and is likely to be volatile in the future. The trading price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors. Further, our common stock has a limited trading history. In addition to the risks described in this section, factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: • fluctuations in our quarterly financial results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us as discussed in more detail elsewhere in these “Risk Factors;” • failing to achieve our revenue or earnings expectations, or those of investors or analysts; • changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts; • recruitment or departure of key personnel; • investors’ general perception of us; • volatility inherent in prices of technology company stocks; • adverse publicity; • the volume of trading in our common stock, including sales upon exercise of outstanding options; • sales of shares of our common stock by existing stockholders; • regulatory developments in our target markets affecting us, our customers or our competitors; 25 Table of Contents • terrorist attacks or natural disasters or other such events impacting countries where we or our customers have operations; and • actual or perceived changes in general economic, industry and market conditions. In addition, if the stock market in general experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition or results of operations. Some companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have had securities class actions filed against them. If a suit were filed against us, regardless of its merits or outcome, it would likely result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our actual results may differ significantly from any guidance that we may issue in the future. From time to time, we may release financial guidance or other forward looking statements in our earnings releases, earnings conference calls or otherwise, regarding our future performance that represent our management’s estimates as of the date of release. If given, this guidance will be based on forecasts prepared by our management. These forecasts are not prepared with a view toward compliance with published accounting guidelines, and neither our registered public accountants nor any other independent expert or outside party compiles or examines the forecasts and, accordingly, no such person expresses any opinion or any other form of assurance with respect to such forecasts. The principal reason that we may release guidance is to provide a basis for our management to discuss our business outlook with analysts and investors. We do not accept any responsibility for any projections or reports published by any such third persons. Guidance is necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that some or all of the assumptions of any future guidance furnished by us may not materialize or may vary significantly from actual future results. Concentration of ownership among our existing executive officers, directors and their affiliates may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions. Our directors and executive officers and their affiliates beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 41% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2011. As a result, these stockholders will be able to determine substantially all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or its assets. This concentration of ownership could limit the ability of other stockholders to influence corporate matters and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control over us. Anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and by laws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. Our certificate of incorporation, by laws and Delaware law contain provisions that could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition deemed undesirable by our board of directors. Our corporate governance documents include provisions: • authorizing blank check preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors without stockholder approval, with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; • classifying our board of directors, staggered into three classes, only one of which is elected at each annual meeting; • limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; • limiting the ability of our stockholders to call and bring business before special meetings and to take action by written consent in lieu of a meeting; 26 Table of Contents • requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; • controlling the procedures for the conduct and scheduling of stockholder meetings; • providing the board of directors with the express power to postpone previously scheduled annual meetings and to cancel previously scheduled special meetings; • limiting the determination of the number of directors on our board and the filling of vacancies or newly created seats on the board to our board of directors then in office; and • providing that directors may be removed by stockholders only for cause. These provisions, alone or together, could delay hostile takeovers and changes in control or changes in our management. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation law, which limits the ability of stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding common stock to merge or combine with us. Any provision of our certificate of incorporation, by laws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. If securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about us, our business or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding our stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If any of these analysts cease coverage of our company, the trading price and trading volume of our stock could be negatively impacted. If analysts downgrade our stock or publish unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would also likely decline. 27 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 