Item 1A. Risk Factors If Economic Conditions Deteriorate, Particularly in the Metropolitan New York Area, Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition Could Be Adversely Affected as Borrowers’ Ability to Repay Loans Declines and the Value of the Collateral Securing Our Loans Decreases. Our financial results may be adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic conditions, particularly in the metropolitan New York area, including decreases in real estate values, changes in interest rates which may cause a decrease in interest rate spreads, adverse employment conditions, the monetary and fiscal policies of the Federal government and other significant external events. At September 30, 2009, loans secured by real estate represented nearly all of our total loans, with substantially all of these loans being made in the New York metropolitan area. Decreases in local real estate values would adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for our loans. Adverse changes in the economy also may have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. The Current Economic Downturn Coupled With Turmoil and Uncertainty in the Financial Markets May Adversely Impact Our Earnings and Our Ability to Successfully Execute Our Business Plan. The current economic downturn may adversely impact the financial condition of the households and businesses comprising our loan customers. Such a deteriorating financial condition could arise from loss of employment or business revenue exacerbated by a reduction in the value of real estate collateralizing our customers’ loans. As a consequence, we may experience an increase in nonperforming loans that will negatively impact earnings through reduced collections of interest income coupled with possible increases in the provision for loan losses and associated charge offs. Additionally, our ability to originate new loans in accordance with our business plan goals and objectives may be diminished as a result of these same factors. Commercial Real Estate Loan Originations Have Increased, Increasing the Risk that Some of Our Loans Will Not Be Paid. Our lending in commercial real estate, construction and land has expanded during the previous five years. Lending in these sectors has increased as a percentage of our total loan portfolio from 48.5% at September 30, 2005 to 60.6% at September 30, 2009. Lending in these sectors generally exposes a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential lending. At September 30, 2009, we had eight loans for an aggregate of $22.1 million in non-performing status compared to two loans for an aggregate of $2.0 million representing two loans in non-performing status at September 30, 2008. In addition, our multi-family, commercial real estate and construction loan portfolio is not as seasoned as the loan portfolio of some of our competitors. If the local real estate market or economy continues to weaken, we may continue to experience higher levels of non-performing loans. The Bank agreed with the OTS that, other than contractual commitments entered into prior to December 3, 2009, the Bank will not originate any commercial real estate loans without prior OTS approval. If Our Allowance for Loan Losses is Not Sufficient to Cover Actual Loan Losses, Our Earnings Could Decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. Material additions to our allowance would materially decrease our net income. 32 In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Higher FDIC Deposit Insurance Premiums and Assessments Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition. FDIC insurance premiums have increased substantially in 2009, and we may have to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums in the future. Market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The FDIC adopted a revised risk-based deposit insurance assessment schedule on February 27, 2009, which raised regular deposit insurance premiums. On May 22, 2009, the FDIC also implemented a five basis point special assessment of each insured depository institution’s total assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009, but no more than ten basis points times the institution’s assessment base for the second quarter of 2009, collected by the FDIC on September 30, 2009. The amount of this special assessment was $0.2 million. Additional special assessments may be imposed by the FDIC for future quarters at the same or higher levels. In addition, the FDIC recently adopted a rule that would require insured depository institutions to prepay their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. The prepaid assessments collected on December 30, 2009 were $2.3 million, all of which was recorded as a prepaid expense (an asset) as of December 30, 2009. As of December 31, 2009 and each quarter thereafter, we would record an expense for our regular quarterly assessment for the quarter and an offsetting credit to the prepaid assessment until the asset is exhausted. These changes may cause the premiums charged by the FDIC to increase and could significantly increase our non-interest expense in 2009 and in future periods. The prepayment of our FDIC assessments also may temporarily reduce our liquidity. We Operate in a Highly Regulated Environment and May Be Adversely Affected by Changes in Laws and Regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision, our chartering authority, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of deposits. This regulation and supervision governs the activities in which a financial institution and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and depositors. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of assets by the institution and the adequacy of an institution’s allowance for loan losses. Any change in this regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, may have a material impact on our operations. An Increase in Interest Rates is Expected to Adversely Affect Our Earnings. Our earnings largely depend on our net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. Net interest income is the difference between the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as mortgage loans and investment securities, and the interest expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. The rates we earn on our assets are generally fixed for a contractual period of time. We, like many savings institutions, have liabilities that generally have shorter contractual maturities than our assets or no contractual maturities, such as savings and money market deposits. This imbalance can create significant earnings volatility because market interest rates change over time. In addition, short-term and long-term interest rates do not necessarily change at the same time or at the same rate. 33 In a period of rising interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets may not increase as rapidly as the interest paid on our liabilities. We are vulnerable to volatility in our earnings as a result of an increase in interest rates because the majority of our interest-earning assets are long-term, fixed-rate assets. In an increasing interest rate environment, our cost of funds is expected to increase more rapidly than the interest earned on our loan portfolio and securities portfolio because our primary source of funds is deposits with generally shorter maturities than the maturities on our loans and investment securities. This could cause our net interest rate spread to compress because the increase in interest income we would earn on our securities and loan portfolios may be less than the increase in the interest expense we would pay on our deposits and borrowings. In addition, the expected duration of our mortgage-backed securities may increase during a rising interest rate environment, thereby lengthening the period during which they would reprice at higher rates. In a period of decreasing interest rates, prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed securities generally will increase as borrowers refinance their debt in order to reduce their borrowing costs. In a decreasing rate environment we are generally not able to reinvest the proceeds of loan and securities prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the prepaid loans or securities. A decreasing interest rate environment would result in a decrease in rates we pay on deposits and borrowings, but the decrease in the cost of our funds may not be as great as the decrease in the yields on our mortgage-backed securities and loan portfolios. This could cause a narrowing of our net interest rate spread and could cause a decrease in our earnings. We are further exposed to interest rate risk due to the large portion of our total deposits that can reprice at any time. The Bank monitors its interest rate sensitivity through the use of an asset/liability management model that estimates the change in its net portfolio value (defined as the current market value of assets, less the current market value of liabilities, plus or minus the current value of off-balance sheet items) in the event of a range of assumed changes in market interest rates. Our net portfolio value analysis, as calculated by the Office of Thrift Supervision using information as of September 30, 2009, indicates that in the event of an immediate and permanent 2.0% increase in interest rates, our net portfolio value would be expected to decrease by 1.0%. Strong Competition Within Our Market Area May Limit Our Growth and Profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market area, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Most of these competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. In addition, our competition recently has been offering loans with lower fixed rates and loans on more attractive terms than the Bank has been willing to offer. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market area. The greater resources and broader range of deposit and loan products offered by our competition may limit our ability to increase our interest-earning assets and profitability. Persons Who Own Our Stock Own a Minority of Brooklyn Federal Bancorp, Inc.’s Common Stock and Will Not Be Able To Exercise Voting Control Over Most Matters Put To a Vote of Stockholders. Public stockholders own a minority of the outstanding shares of the Company’s common stock. As a result, stockholders other than BFS Bancorp, MHC will not be able to exercise voting control over most matters put to a vote of stockholders. BFS Bancorp, MHC owns a majority of the Company’s common stock and, through its board of directors, is able to exercise voting control over most matters put to a vote of stockholders. The same directors and officers who manage the Company and the Bank also manage BFS Bancorp, MHC. In addition, BFS Bancorp, MHC may exercise its voting control to prevent a sale or merger transaction in which stockholders could receive a premium for their shares. Our Stock Value May be Negatively Affected by Federal Regulations Restricting Takeovers and our Mutual Holding Company Structure. Federal Regulations Restricting Takeovers. Current Office of Thrift Supervision policy prohibits the acquisition of a mutual holding company subsidiary by any person or entity other than a mutual holding company or a mutual institution. Please see “Business—Supervision and Regulation” for a discussion of applicable Office of Thrift Supervision Regulations regarding acquisitions. 34 The Mutual Holding Company Structure May Impede Takeovers. BFS Bancorp, MHC, as the majority stockholder of the Company, is able to control the outcome of virtually all matters presented to stockholders for their approval, including a proposal to acquire the Company. Accordingly, BFS Bancorp, MHC may prevent the sale of control or merger of the Company or its subsidiaries even if the transaction was favored by a majority of the public stockholders of the Company. The Corporate Governance Provisions in Our Charter and Bylaws May Prevent or Impede the Holders of a Minority of Our Common Stock from Obtaining Representation on Our Board of Directors. Provisions in our charter and bylaws may prevent or impede holders of a minority of our common stock from obtaining representation on our board of directors. For example, our board of directors is divided into three staggered classes. A staggered board makes it more difficult for stockholders to change a majority of the directors because it generally takes at least two annual elections of directors for this to occur. Second, our charter provides that there will not be cumulative voting by stockholders for the election of our directors, which means that BFS Bancorp, MHC, as the holder of a majority of the shares eligible to be voted at a meeting of stockholders, may elect all of our directors to be elected at that meeting. Third, our bylaws contain procedures and timetables for a stockholder wanting to make a nomination for the election of directors or a proposal for new business at a meeting of stockholders, the effect of which may be to give our management time to solicit its own proxies in an attempt to defeat any dissident slate of nominations if management thinks it is in the best interests of stockholders generally. Possible New York State Legislative Changes May Negatively Affect the Amount of Taxes We Pay in Future Years At the time of this filing, the New York State Department of Taxation and Finance is considering proposing a legislative reform of the New York State corporate franchise and banking corporation tax rules. The proposed reform package that the New York State Department of Taxation and Finance has publicly released would substantially alter how the Company and the Bank are taxed in New York State and may materially increase their combined effective New York State tax rate. In particular, the current proposal by the New York State Department of Taxation and Finance would eliminate the 60% dividends-received deduction for dividends the Bank receives from BFS REIT, Inc. as described above under “Item 1. Business—State and Local Taxation – New York State Taxation”, which would increase the portion of those dividends subject to New York State tax. Also, as described above under “Item 1. Business—State and Local Taxation – Bad Debt Reserves”, the current proposal may also require the Bank to utilize a different bad debt reserve method than the method it is currently using, which may result in an increase in the Bank’s New York State taxes. More specifically, the proposal would re-couple New York State’s treatment of bad debt reserves and deductions with the Federal tax treatment after the 1996 Act so that the Bank would be entitled to claim a deduction equal only to its actual loan loss experience. It is not possible to predict whether the Department of Taxation and Finance’s proposal will be included in the New York State Governor’s Proposed Budget for 2010 (expected to be released in January 2010), whether any tax reform legislation will actually be proposed in the New York State legislature, whether any such legislation would be enacted, how any enacted legislation would differ from the current law or the most current proposal released by the Department of Taxation and Finance, and how any such legislative changes would impact the Company and the Bank’s effective New York State tax rate. It is also uncertain at this time whether there would be any similar changes made to the New York City banking corporation tax. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 35 