ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are not strictly historical in nature are forward-looking statements. These statements may include, but are not limited to, statements about: the timing of the commencement, enrollment, and completion of our clinical trials for our product candidates; the progress or success of our product development programs; the status of regulatory approvals for our product candidates; the timing of product launches; our ability to protect our intellectual property and operate our business without infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others; and our estimates for future performance, anticipated operating losses, future revenues, capital requirements, and our needs for additional financing. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terms such as “anticipates,” “believes,” “could,” “estimates,” “expects,” “intends,” “may,” “plans,” “potential,” “predicts,” “projects,” “should,” “will,” “would,” “goal,” or other variations of these terms (including their use in the negative) or by discussions of strategies, plans or intentions. These statements are only predictions based on current information and expectations and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The underlying information and expectations are likely to change over time. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in our forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of operating losses and expect to incur further losses. We have never been profitable and we have incurred significant losses and cash flow deficits. For the years ended September 30, 2012 and 2011, we reported net losses of $9.2 million, and $15.7 million, respectively, and negative cash flow from operating activities of $6.1 million for both years ending September 30, 2012 and 2011. As of September 30, 2012, we have an aggregate accumulated deficit of $338.2 million and an aggregate accumulated stockholders’ deficit of $79.7 million. We anticipate that operations may continue to show losses and negative cash flow, particularly with the anticipated expenses associated with the initial clinical trial of Cyrevia™ and Biovest’s expenses associated with its interim analyses and efforts to seek regulatory approval for BiovaxID™. There is no assurance that, the additional required funds can be obtained on terms acceptable or favorable to us, if at all. The audit opinion issued by our independent auditors with respect to our consolidated financial statements for fiscal 2012 indicates that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. We expect to receive a similar audit opinion from our independent auditors with respect to our consolidated financial statements for fiscal 2013. Our ability to achieve and sustain profitability is to a large degree dependent on the success of our development efforts with regard to Cyrevia and Biovest’s efforts to develop and commercialize BiovaxID. We may not be successful in our efforts and even if successful, we may not be able to profitably commercialize any of our drug products. Our failure to timely repay principal due undercertain of our secured and unsecured debt instruments has resulted in events of default pursuant to such debt instruments, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results, our financial condition and our access to capital funding. On November 17, 2012, an aggregate of approximately $14.1 million in principal became due under our convertible debentures issued in November 2010 (the “Matured Obligations”). Because we were unable to pay the amount due on November 17, 2012, an event of default occurred under the Matured Obligations. As a result of this event of default, interest has begun accruing on the Matured Obligations at a default rate of 18% and the holders of the Matured Obligations have the right to an additional default payment of 30% on the outstanding balance due. The holders of the Matured Obligations could also cause all amounts outstanding, to be immediately due and payable. At present, the holders of the Matured Obligations have not taken any action to secure monetary judgment(s) against us for the outstanding and interest principal owed to them. Also, on November 17, 2012, an aggregate of approximately $27.7 million in principal became due under (1) a secured convertible promissory note issued to Corps Real, LLC (“Corps Real”) with an aggregate principal balance of $3.0 million (the “Biovest Corps Real Note”), (2) secured convertible promissory notes issued to Laurus Master Fund, Ltd. (in liquidation), PSource Structured Debt Limited, Valens U.S. SPV I, LLC, Valens Offshore SPV I, Ltd., Valens Offshore SPV II, Corp., and Erato Corp. (collectively, “Laurus/Valens”) with an aggregate principal balance of $23.5 million (the “Term A Notes”), and (3) unsecured convertible promissory notes (the “Exchange Notes”) issued to the holders of the Exit Financing with an aggregate principal balance of $1.2 million (collectively, the “Biovest Matured Obligations”). Because Biovest was unable to pay the amount due on November 17, 2012, an event of default occurred under the Biovest Matured Obligations. As a result of Biovest’s default under the Exchange Notes issued in the Exit Financing, interest has begun accruing on those Exchange Notes at rate of 15% per annum. On December 19, 2012, a majority of the holders (Whitebox Credit Arbitrage Partners, LP, Whitebox Special Opportunities Fund Series B Partners, LP, Pandora Select Partners, LP, Whitebox Multi-Strategy Partners, LP, Whitebox Concentrated Convertible Arbitrage Partners, LP, (collectively, the “Whitebox Entities”)) of the outstanding Exchange Notes issued in the Exit Financing commenced a breach of contract action to secure monetary judgment(s) against Biovest for the outstanding principal and interest owed to them (the “Whitebox Litigation”). With the exception of the Whitebox Litigation, Biovest has not been notified of an event of default by the other holders of the outstanding Exchanges Notes. 50 Table of Contents Pursuant to cross-default provisions contained in certain of Biovest’s other outstanding notes in the aggregate of approximately $0.3 million and $4.2 million, may be declared to be in default as well, and were issued to (a) the Economic Development Authority for the City of Coon Rapids (“EDA”) and the Minnesota Investment Fund (“MIF”) and (b) Laurus/Valens, respectively. Biovest has not been notified of an event of default by the EDA and/or MIF and the standstill agreement (discussed below) precludes Laurus/Valens from declaring a cross-default under its Term B Notes. Effective November 17, 2012, Biovest entered into a standstill agreement with Corps Real and Laurus/Valens, pursuant to which (i) the maturity dates of the Biovest Corps Real Note and the Term A Notes were extended from November 17, 2012 to January 31, 2013 and (ii) Corps Real and Laurus/Valens granted Biovest a forbearance (until January 31, 2013) from their exercise of the rights and/or remedies available to them under the Biovest Corps Real Note, Term A Notes and Term B Notes. The standstill agreement allows Biovest the time and opportunity to negotiate with Corps Real and Laurus/Valens a potential restructuring of the Biovest Corps Real Note, Term A Notes, and Term B Notes. If Biovest defaults under the Biovest Corps Real Note following the expiration of the period covered by the standstill agreement, Corps Real will have the right to foreclose upon its first priority security interest in all of Biovest’s assets. If Biovest defaults under the Term A Notes following the expiration of the period covered by the standstill agreement, Laurus/Valens (a) will have right to foreclose upon their lien on all of Biovest’s assets (which is subordinate only to the security interest of Corps Real) and (b) may appoint one-third of the total membership of Biovest’s Board of Directors. The outcome of the negotiations relating to the restructuring of the Biovest Matured Obligations, which may include the remainder of Biovest’s outstanding debt, may negatively affect our ownership interest in Biovest and cause our potential deconsolidation/loss of control in Biovest. Effective December 3, 2012, Biovest issued an additional secured promissory note to Corps Real, which provides Biovest with a revolving line of credit in the principal amount of up to $1.5 million (the “Biovest Corps Real LOC”). The advances under the Biovest Corps Real LOC can only be used to sustain Biovest’s business operations. The Biovest Corps Real LOC accrues interest at the rate of 16% per annum and matures on the first anniversary of the closing of the Biovest Corps Real LOC. The Biovest Corps Real LOC is secured by a first priority lien of all Biovest’s assets and the Laurus/Valens Term A Notes and Term B Notes are now subordinate in right of payment and priority to the payment in full of the Biovest Corps Real LOC. On December 20, 2012, we issued an additional secured promissory note to Pabeti, the principal amount of up to $0.125 million (the “Pabeti Note II”). The Pabeti Note II can only be used to sustain our business operations. The Pabeti Note II accrues interest at the rate of 16% per annum and matures on December 20, 2013. The Pabeti Note is secured by a security interest in all of our assets and 6,666,666 shares of Biovest common stock owned by us. Ours and Biovest’s liquid assets and cash flow are not sufficient to fully repay the principal owed under the outstanding debt instruments owed by us and Biovest. Further, we cannot assure our shareholders that we can extend or restructure the Matured Obligations and the Biovest Matured Obligations. We have not established access to additional capital or debt to repay the Matured Obligations and the Biovest Matured Obligations. Further, we cannot assume our shareholders that we will be able to obtain needed funding to repay or restructure our Matured Obligations and the Biovest Matured Obligations. Biovest’s negotiations in and the potential of Biovest restructuring of its debt obligations may negatively affect our ownership interest and cause a potential deconsolidation/loss of control in Biovest. We have limited cash or other liquid assets on hand. During prior years, we met our cash requirements through the use of cash on hand, revenue, the sale of common stock, and loans. We have significant outstanding indebtedness which as of September 30, 2012 aggregated approximately $39.3 million of which $1.8 million will be automatically converted into common stock at various intervals and approximately $26.5 million that is voluntarily convertible into common stock. Our ability to continue present operations is dependent upon our ability to obtain significant external funding when required. Additional sources of funding have not been established; however, we anticipate that in the future we will seek additional financing from a number of sources, including, but not limited to, the sale of equity or debt securities, strategic collaborations, recognized research funding programs and domestic and/or foreign licensing of our product candidates. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in securing needed financing at acceptable terms, if at all. If adequate funds are not available, or if we determine it to otherwise be in our best interests, we may consider additional strategic financing options, including sales of assets or business units that are non-essential to the ongoing development or future commercialization of our drug candidates in development or we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs or curtail some of our commercialization efforts. If we are successful in procuring additional financing when required it will most likely result in our issuing additional shares and/or rights to acquire shares of our capital stock, in the alternative it may result in our selling shares of our majority-owned subsidiary, Biovest, which we currently own, and/or selling, licensing or partnering of our other assets. Accordingly, our access to additional financing when needed is anticipated to be dilutive to existing shareholders. 51 Table of Contents If, as or when required, we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness under our secured or unsecured debt instruments, or amend the covenants contained therein, the lenders and/or holders under such secured or unsecured debt instruments could elect to terminate their commitments thereunder, cease making further loans and institute foreclosure proceedings or other actions against our assets. Under such circumstances, we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. In addition, any event of default or declaration of acceleration under one of our debt instruments could also result in an event of default under one or more of our other debt instruments. We may have to seek protection under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code from the Matured Obligations. We cannot assure our shareholders that such a proceeding, if voluntarily or involuntarily instituted, would be successful in protection our shareholders. This would have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. Our independent registered public accountants have expressed substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. As of September 30, 2012, we had a working capital deficit of $55.0 million. We have a significant amount of debt, approximately $14.1 million of which matured on November 17, 2012 discussed above. We expect to continue to incur substantial net operating losses for the foreseeable future. Continued operating losses would impair our ability to continue operations. We may not be able to generate sufficient product revenue to become profitable on a sustained basis, or at all. We have operating and liquidity concerns due to our significant net losses and negative cash flows from operations. As a result of these and other factors, our independent registered certified public accountants, Cherry, Bekaert, and Holland, L.L.P., have indicated, in their report to our 2012 consolidated financial statements, that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon generating sufficient cash flow to conduct operations and obtaining additional capital and financing. Any financing activity is likely to result in significant dilution to current shareholders. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern and do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. We incurred net losses of $9.2 million, and $15.7 million in 2012 and 2011, respectively. We have also experienced negative cash flows from operations for the past three fiscal years. In addition, our projected cash receipts from operations for fiscal 2013 are anticipated to be insufficient to finance operations without funding from other sources. Historically, we have had difficulty in meeting our cash requirements. There can be no assurances that we will obtain the necessary funding, reduce the level of historical losses or achieve successful commercialization of any of our product candidates. Continuation as a going concern is ultimately dependent upon achieving profitable operations and positive operating cash flows sufficient to pay all obligations as they come due. Our operating results may fluctuate widely between reporting periods. Our operating results may vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter or year-to-year, depending on factors such as timing of biopharmaceutical development and commercialization of products by our customers, the timing of increased research and development and sales and marketing expenditures, the timing and size of contracts and whether we introduce to the market new products or processes. Consequently, revenues, profits or losses may vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter or year-to-year, and revenue, profits or losses in any period will not necessarily be indicative of results in subsequent periods. These period-to-period fluctuations in financial results may have a significant impact on the market price, if any, of our securities. Our business could be adversely affected or we could fail, if we are unable to service our obligations under our incurred indebtedness. Our ability to pay interest and principal amounts when due or to comply with debt covenants will depend upon, among other things, continued commercial success of our product candidates, access to funding when required, the ability to enter into business or strategic relationships, and other factors that affect our future financial and operating performance, including, without limitation, prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, and regulatory factors, many of which are beyond our control. As previously discussed on November 17, 2012, approximately $14.1 million of our debt matured and accordingly we are currently in default under a portion of those debt instruments. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to meet the debt service requirements under our incurred indebtedness, we may be forced to take actions such as: • restructuring or refinancing our debt; • seeking additional debt or equity capital; 52 Table of Contents • reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, including research and development expenditures; • selling assets, businesses, products or other potential revenue streams; and • seeking protection(s) under U.S. bankruptcy laws. Such measures might not be successful and might not enable us to service our obligations under our indebtedness. In addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available on economically favorable terms. We anticipate that we will need substantial additional funding in the future, and if we are unable to raise capital when needed, we would be forced to delay, reduce, or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts. Developing biopharmaceutical products, conducting clinical trials, establishing manufacturing capabilities, and marketing developed products is expensive. We anticipate that we, along with Biovest, will need to raise substantial additional capital in the future in order to complete the commercialization of our product candidates, to continue to pursue the submission of regulatory/marketing approval applications in various jurisdictions, for our product candidates and to fund the development and commercialization of our product candidates. Further, Biovest anticipates that it will need to raise substantial additional capital in order to conduct a second Phase 3 clinical trial for BiovaxID™ pursuant to Biovest’s formal guidance meeting with the FDA. Additional sources of funding have not been established; however, additional financing is currently being sought from a number of sources, including the sale of our and/or Biovest equity or debt securities, strategic collaborations, recognized research funding programs, as well as domestic and/or foreign licensing of our product candidates. Based on our current operating plans, we expect that our existing capital and cash flow from operations, together with proceeds of one or more anticipated equity financing transactions, will be sufficient to fund our operations and development activities for a limited period. We have received a report from our independent auditors on our consolidated financial statements for our years ended September 30, 2012 and 2011, in which our auditors have included explanatory emphasis of matter paragraphs indicating that our significant net losses, working capital deficiency, and default(s) on debt instruments, cause substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We expect to seek additional financing from a number of sources, including but not limited to public or private equity offerings, debt financings, or corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements. To the extent that we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience additional dilution, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants. If we raise funds through the issuance of equity securities, our current shareholders’ equity interests could be substantially diminished. If we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish some of our rights to our technologies or our product candidates or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available from the foregoing sources, we may consider additional strategic financing options, including sales of assets or business units that are non-essential to the ongoing development or future commercialization of Cyrevia™, BiovaxID and our other product candidates, or we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs or curtail some of our commercialization efforts. We may be unable to obtain necessary additional financing. The capital requirements for our operations have been and will continue to be significant. Our ability to generate cash from operations is dependent upon, among other things, increased demand for our product candidates and services and the successful development of direct marketing and product distribution capabilities. Our ability to obtain required funding from debt or equity funding is dependent on numerous factors and is considered uncertain. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient capital resources to implement our business plan and we may need additional external debt and/or equity financing to fund our future operations. We are largely dependent on the success of product candidates and we may not be able to successfully commercialize product candidates. We, along with Biovest, have expended and will continue to expend significant time, money, and effort on the development of Cyrevia™, BiovaxID™, and our other product candidates. We will incur significant costs and may never generate significant revenues from commercial sales of these product candidates, if approved. None of these products are approved for marketing in any jurisdiction, and they may never be commercialized. Before we can market and sell these product candidates in any jurisdiction, we will need to demonstrate in clinical trials that these product candidates are safe and effective. If we fail to successfully commercialize any or all of these product candidates, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenue to sustain and grow our business, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations will be adversely affected. 53 Table of Contents Before regulator/marketing y approval can be sought in the U.S. for our product candidates, we must successfully complete additional clinical trials, outcomes of which are uncertain. In July 2012, Biovest conducted a formal clinical meeting with the FDA in order to define the path for BiovaxID’s U.S. regulatory approval. Further in its guidance, the FDA required that Biovest conduct a second Phase 3 clinical trial to complete the clinical data gained through its first Phase 3 clinical trial and Biovest’s BiovaxID development program to support the filing of Biovest’s BLA for BiovaxID. Biovest is preparing to initiate this second Phase 3 clinical trial to advance BiovaxID toward the U.S. market subject to availability of funding. Conducting clinical trials is a lengthy, time-consuming, and expensive process, and the results of these trials are inherently uncertain. The time required to complete necessary clinical trials is often difficult, if not impossible, to predict. Our commencement and rate of completion of clinical trials may be delayed by many factors, including: • ineffectiveness of our product candidate or perceptions by physicians that the product candidate is not safe or effective for a particular indication; • inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of the product candidate for use in clinical trials; • delay or failure in obtaining approval of our clinical trial protocols from the FDA or institutional review boards; • slower than expected rate of patient recruitment and enrollment; • inability to adequately follow and monitor patients after treatment; • difficulty in managing multiple clinical sites; • unforeseen safety issues; • government or regulatory delays; and • clinical trial costs that are greater than we currently anticipate. Even if we achieve positive interim results in clinical trials, these results do not necessarily predict final results, and positive results in early clinical trials may not be indicative of success in later clinical trials. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier clinical trials. Negative or inconclusive results or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could cause us to repeat or terminate a clinical trial or require us to conduct additional clinical trials. We do not know whether any future clinical trials will demonstrate safety and efficacy sufficiently to result in marketable product candidates. Our clinical trials may be suspended at any time for a variety of reasons, including if the FDA or we believe the patients participating in our clinical trials are exposed to unacceptable health risks or if the FDA finds deficiencies in the conduct of these clinical trials. Failures or perceived failures in our clinical trials will directly delay our product development and regulatory approval process, damage our business prospects, make it difficult for us to establish collaboration and partnership relationships, and negatively affect our reputation and competitive position in the pharmaceutical community. If we fail to obtain regulatory approval of Cyrevia™, BiovaxID™ or any of our product candidates, we will be unable to commercialize these products. Development, testing, manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical products are subject to extensive regulation by numerous governmental authorities in the U.S. and in other foreign countries. The process of obtaining FDA approval of pharmaceutical products is costly and time consuming. Any new pharmaceutical product must undergo rigorous preclinical and clinical testing and an extensive regulatory approval process mandated by the FDA. Such regulatory review includes the determination of manufacturing capability and product performance. We have not commenced any clinical trials in Cyrevia and the development of our product candidates based on Cyrevia should be considered to be in an early stage. The structure, size, design, cost and/or length of future clinical trials in Cyrevia have not been established and remain uncertain. The FDA has ruled that it will regulate SinuNasal™ as a combination product with a drug primary mode of action rather than as a medical device. In the event we elect to pursue litigation to overturn the FDA’s determination, the outcome is uncertain. If we choose not to litigate, or if we litigate and do not prevail, the FDA’s decision will significantly increase the cost and time needed to bring SinuNasal to market. We may choose to discontinue the effort to market SinuNasal rather than acquiesce in regulation of this product as a drug. 54 Table of Contents Biovest intends to seek regulatory approval from the FDA for BiovaxID; however, Biovest does not plan on filing a BLA in the U.S. until after the completion of second Phase 3 clinical trial which is expected to require a number of years. In addition to seeking regulatory approval from the FDA for BiovaxID, Biovest intends to seek the regulatory and marketing approval required to market BiovaxID in the EU and Canada and potentially additional countries and territories. Biovest anticipates commencing the regulatory/marketing applications required in the EU and Canada around the same time. Marketing of BiovaxID in these countries, and in most other countries, is not permitted until Biovest has obtained required approvals or exemptions in each Member State in the EU and each province in Canada. The approval requirements and conditions (i.e., additional development and clinical trials to satisfy regulatory requirements) which each regulatory agency may require could delay or completely frustrate approval. The regulatory/marketing approval process for any new drug or biologic, particularly including BiovaxID is considered robust, challenging and uncertain. In addition, patient-specific active immunotherapies such as BiovaxID are complex, and regulatory agencies have limited experience with them. To date, the FDA has only approved for marketing two active immunotherapies for treating cancer. This limited precedent and experience may lengthen the regulatory review process and impede Biovest’s ability to obtain timely FDA approval for BiovaxID, if it is approved at all. Even if BiovaxID is approved by the FDA, the FDA’s limited precedent and experience with respect to a patient-specific active idiotype vaccine may increase Biovest’s development costs and otherwise delay or prevent commercialization. There can be no assurance that the products currently in development, or those products acquired or in-licensed by us, will be approved by the FDA or any foreign regulatory agency. In addition, there can be no assurance that all necessary approvals will be granted for future products or that regulatory review or actions will not involve delays caused by such regulatory agency’s request for additional information or testing that could adversely affect the time to market and sale of the products. Any delay in any approval or any failure to obtain approval of a product could delay or impair our ability to commercialize that product and to generate revenue, as well as increase costs for that product. If we do not obtain and maintain regulatory/marketing approval of our product candidates, we will be unable to sell our product candidates. Changes in law, government regulations and/or policies can have a significant impact on our results of operations. The discovery, preclinical development, clinical trials, manufacturing, risk evaluation and mitigation strategies, marketing and labeling of pharmaceuticals and biologics are all subject to extensive laws and regulations, including without limitation, the U.S. Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the U.S. Public Health Service Act, the Medicare Modernization Act, the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the Sherman Antitrust Act, patent laws, environmental laws, privacy laws and other federal and state statutes, including anti-kickback, antitrust and false claims laws, as well as similar laws in foreign jurisdictions. Enforcement of and changes in laws, government regulations and/or policies can have a significant adverse impact on our ability to continue to commercialize our product candidates or introduce new products to the market, which would adversely affect our results of operations. If we or our agents, contractors or collaborators are delayed in receiving, or are unable to obtain all, necessary governmental approvals, we will be unable to effectively market our product candidates. The testing, marketing and manufacturing of our product candidates requires regulatory/marketing approval, including approval from the FDA or other U.S. governmental authorities and other governmental authorities outside of the U.S. that perform similar roles, including the EMA, and Health Canada. The regulatory/marketing approval process presents a number of risks to us, principally: • In general, preclinical tests and clinical trials can take many years, and require the expenditure of substantial resources, and the data obtained from these tests and trials can be susceptible to varying interpretation that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory/marketing approval; • Delays or rejections may be encountered during any stage of the regulatory process based upon the failure of the clinical or other data to demonstrate compliance with, or upon the failure of the product to meet, a regulatory agency’s requirements for safety, efficacy and quality or, in the case of a product seeking an orphan drug indication, because another designee received approval first or received approval of other labeled indications; • Requirements for regulatory/marketing approval may become more stringent due to changes in regulatory agency policy or the adoption of new regulations or legislation; • The scope of any regulatory/marketing approval, when obtained, may significantly limit the indicated uses for which a product may be marketed and reimbursed and may impose significant limitations in the nature of warnings, precautions and contra-indications that could materially affect the sales and profitability of the drug; 55 Table of Contents • Approved products, as well as their manufacturers, are subject to continuing and ongoing review, and discovery of previously unknown problems with these products or the failure to adhere to manufacturing or quality control requirements may result in restrictions on their manufacture, sale or use or in their withdrawal from the market; • Regulatory authorities and agencies of the U.S., the EU, Canada or other foreign governments may promulgate additional regulations restricting the sale of our product candidates, including specifically tailored risk evaluation and mitigation strategies; • Guidelines and recommendations published by various governmental and non-governmental organizations can reduce the use of our product candidates; • Once a product candidate receives regulatory/marketing approval, we may not market that product candidate for broader or different applications, and the FDA may not grant us approval with respect to separate product applications that represent extensions of our basic technology. In addition, the FDA may withdraw or modify existing approvals in a significant manner or promulgate additional regulations restricting the sale of our present or proposed product candidate. The FDA may also request that we perform additional clinical trials or change the labeling of our product candidates if we or others identify side effects after our product candidates are on the market; and • Our risk evaluation and mitigation strategies, labeling and promotional activities relating to our product candidates as well as our post-marketing activities will be regulated by the FDA, the Federal Trade Commission, the U.S. Department of Justice, the Drug Enforcement Agency, state regulatory agencies and foreign regulatory agencies and are subject to associated risks. In addition, individual states, acting through their attorneys general, have become active as well, seeking to regulate the marketing of prescription drugs under state consumer protection and false advertising laws. If we fail to comply with regulations regarding the promotion and sale of our product candidates, appropriate distribution of our product candidates under our restricted distribution systems, prohibition on off-label promotion and the promotion of unapproved products, such agencies may bring enforcement actions against us that could inhibit our commercial capabilities as well as result in significant penalties. Other matters that may be the subject of governmental or regulatory action which could adversely affect our business include: • changes in laws and regulations, including without limitation, patent, environmental, privacy, health care and competition laws; • importation of prescription drugs from outside the U.S. at prices that are regulated by the governments of various foreign countries; • additional restrictions on interactions with healthcare professionals; and • privacy restrictions that may limit our ability to share data from foreign jurisdictions. We have incurred significant costs in our development efforts to date and may never generate significant revenue from commercial sales of Cyrevia™, BiovaxID™ and any of our product candidates, if approved. We, along with Biovest, have expended significant time and funds, in the clinical development of Cyrevia, to conducting the Phase 3 clinical trial in BiovaxID, to conducting the Phase 3 clinical trial in SinuNase™, a drug candidate to treat a sinus condition. The SinuNase clinical trial was not considered to be successful, and we are not continuing to develop this drug, although the clinical trial spawned a potential new medical device called SinuNasal™ which could become a marketed product. Nevertheless, we expended significant time and funds in the development of SinuNase. In addition, we, along with Biovest, will continue to expend significant sums in the development and commercialization efforts for Cyrevia and BiovaxID. We expect to continue to incur significant operating expenses and capital expenditures as we: • conduct clinical trials; • conduct research and development on existing and new product candidates; • seek regulatory approvals for our product candidates; • commercialize our product candidates, if approved; • hire additional clinical, scientific, sales and marketing and management personnel; and • identify and license additional product candidates. 56 Table of Contents If our product candidates fail in clinical trials or do not gain regulatory/marketing approval or gain regulatory/marketing approval for more restricted indications than we have anticipated, we may not generate significant revenues from any of our product candidates. In addition, we may continue to experience net losses for the foreseeable future, in which case our accumulated deficit will continue to increase, and we may exhaust our resources and be unable to complete the development of our product candidates. If we are unable to fund the continuing development of our product candidates or if we fail to generate significant revenues from any of our product candidates, our shareholders could lose all or part of their investment in our Company. Even if approved, Cyrevia™, BiovaxID™ and/or any of our product candidates may be subject to promotional limitations. We may not be able to obtain the labeling claims necessary or desirable for the promotion of our product candidates. The FDA has the authority to impose significant restrictions on an approved product through the product label and allowed advertising, promotional and distribution activities. The FDA also may approve a product for fewer indications than are requested or may condition approval on the performance of post-approval clinical studies. We may also be required to undertake post-marketing clinical trials. There may be monetary penalties if post-approval requirements are not fulfilled. If the results of such post-marketing studies are not satisfactory, the FDA may withdraw regulatory/marketing authorization or may condition continued marketing on commitments from us that may be expensive and/or time consuming to fulfill. Even if we receive FDA and/or other foreign regulatory/marketing approvals, if we or others identify adverse side effects after any of our product candidates are on the market, or if manufacturing problems occur, regulatory/marketing approval may be withdrawn and reformulation of our product candidates, additional clinical trials, changes in labeling of our product candidates and additional regulatory/marketing applications may be required. There is a high risk of failure because we are trying to develop both a novel autoimmune disease treatment and a new anti-cancer vaccine. We are pursuing novel therapeutic treatments, including a new autoimmune disease treatment approach and a patient specific cancer therapy. Commercialization requires governmental approval, establishment of cost effective production capability, distribution capability and market acceptance. Our Cyrevia™ treatment and Biovest’s BiovaxID™ vaccine are subject to all of the risks of failure that are inherent in developing products based on new technologies and the risks generally associated with drug development. These risks include the possibility that: • our technology or the product based on our technology will be ineffective or toxic, or otherwise fail to receive necessary regulatory/marketing approvals; • future products based on our technology will be difficult to manufacture on a large scale or at all or will prove to be uneconomical to produce or market; • proprietary rights of third parties will prevent us or our collaborators from marketing products; • third parties will market superior or equivalent products; • technology advances will render our technology or product outdate or less attractive; and • the products will not attain market acceptance. Drug development, including clinical trials required for domestic and foreign governmental approval, is expensive and new drugs have a high risk of failure. Based on results at any stage of development, including later-stage clinical trials and our inability to bear the related costs associated with product development or product production or marketing, we may decide to discontinue development or clinical trial at any time. Conducting a clinical trial for Cyrevia and preparing for and processing the MAA, NDS and BLA for BiovaxID will be expensive and time consuming. The regulatory agencies responses to any application are uncertain and may be rejected or denied or may impose additional requirements. Such additional requirements may be expensive and/or time consuming, and meeting these additional requirements may be difficult or impossible. We might be unable to manufacture our product candidates on a commercial scale, even if approved. Assuming approval of Cyrevia™, BiovaxID™ and/or any of our product candidates, manufacturing, supply and quality control problems could arise as we, either alone or with subcontractors, attempt to scale-up manufacturing capabilities for products under development. We might be unable to scale-up in a timely manner or at a commercially reasonable cost. Problems could lead to delays or pose a threat to the ultimate commercialization of our product candidates and cause us to fail. 57 Table of Contents Manufacturing facilities, and those of any future contract manufacturers, are or will be subject to periodic regulatory inspections by U.S. federal and state and foreign regulatory agencies and these facilities are subject to the particular regulatory agency’s quality system standards and regulations. If we or our third-party manufacturers fail to maintain facilities in accordance with the particular regulatory agency’s quality system standards and regulations, then the manufacture process could be suspended or terminated, which would harm us. We currently have only a pilot scale manufacturing facility. If approved in the EU and Canada, we anticipate that we may need additional manufacturing capacity. Adding manufacturing capacity will be expensive, time consuming and subject to significant regulatory requirements. Because we have limited experience, we might be unsuccessful in our efforts to develop, obtain approval for, commercially produce or successfully market Cyrevia™, BiovaxID™ and/or any of our product candidates. The extent to which we develop and commercialize Cyrevia, BiovaxID and/or any of our product candidates will depend on our ability to: • complete required clinical trials; • obtain necessary regulatory/marketing approvals; • establish, or contract for, required manufacturing capacity; and • establish, or contract for, sales and marketing resources. We have limited experience with these activities and might not be successful in the clinical trials, product development or commercialization. Competing technologies may adversely affect us. Biotechnology has experienced, and is expected to continue to experience, rapid and significant change. New developments in biotechnological processes are expected to continue at a rapid pace in both industry and academia, and these developments are likely to result in commercial applications competitive with our product candidates. We expect to encounter intense competition from a number of companies that offer products in our targeted application area. We anticipate that our competitors in these areas will consist of both well-established and development-stage companies and will include: • healthcare companies; • chemical and biotechnology companies; • biopharmaceutical companies; and • companies developing drug discovery technologies. Competitors might succeed in developing, marketing, or obtaining regulatory/marketing approval for technologies, products, or services that are more effective or commercially attractive than those we offer or are developing, or that render our product candidates or services obsolete. As these companies develop their technologies, they might develop proprietary positions, which might prevent us from successfully commercializing products. Also, we might not have the financial resources, technical expertise or marketing, distribution or support capabilities to compete successfully in the future. Our competitors may develop products that are less expensive, safer, or more effective, which may diminish or eliminate the commercial success of any future products that we may commercialize. We compete with several biotechnology companies, and our competitors may: • develop product candidates and market products that are less expensive or more effective than our future products; • commercialize competing products before we or our partners can launch any products developed from our product candidates; • initiate or withstand substantial price competition more successfully than we can; • have greater success in recruiting skilled scientific workers from the limited pool of available talent; 58 Table of Contents • more effectively negotiate third-party licenses and strategic relationships; and • take advantage of acquisition or other opportunities more readily than we can. We will compete for market share against large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and smaller companies that are collaborating with larger pharmaceutical companies, new companies, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations. Many of these competitors, either alone or together with their partners, may develop new product candidates that will compete with ours, and these competitors may, and in certain cases do, operate larger research and development programs or have substantially greater financial resources than we do. If our competitors market products that are less expensive, safer or more effective than our potential products, or that reach the market sooner than our product candidates, we may not achieve commercial success. In addition, the life sciences industry is characterized by rapid technological change. Because our research approach integrates many technologies, it may be difficult for us to stay abreast of the rapid changes in each technology. If we fail to stay at the forefront of technological change, we may be unable to compete effectively. Our competitors may render our technologies obsolete by advances in existing technological approaches or the development of new or different approaches, potentially eliminating the advantages in our drug discovery process that we believe we derive from our research approach and proprietary technologies. If we fail to comply with the extensive regulations enforced by the EMA, Health Canada, the FDA and other national and international agencies, the sale of our product candidates would be prevented or delayed. Research, pre-clinical development, clinical trials, manufacturing, and marketing of our product candidates are subject to extensive regulation by various national and international government authorities. We have not received regulatory/marketing approval from any regulatory agency for Cyrevia™ and/or BiovaxID™. The process of obtaining EMA, Health Canada, FDA, and other required regulatory/marketing approvals is lengthy and expensive, and the time required for such approvals is uncertain. The regulatory/marketing approval process is affected by such factors as: • the severity of the disease; • the quality of submission; • the clinical efficacy and safety; • the strength of the chemistry and manufacturing control of the process; • the manufacturing facility compliance; • the availability of alternative treatments; • the risks and benefits demonstrated in clinical trials; and • the patent status and marketing exclusivity rights of certain innovative products. Any regulatory/marketing approvals that we or our partners receive for our product candidates may also be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product candidate may be marketed or contain requirements for potentially costly post-marketing follow-up studies. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with the product candidate, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, may result in restrictions on the marketing of the product candidate, and could include withdrawal of the product candidate from the market. Our U.S. manufacturing, labeling, storage, and distribution activities also are subject to strict regulation and licensing by all applicable regulatory agencies. Our biopharmaceutical manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA, the EMA, Health Canada and the regulatory agencies of any other jurisdiction where our product candidate may in the future be marketed. We may receive notices of deficiencies from these agencies as a result of such inspections. Our failure or the failure of our biopharmaceutical manufacturing facilities to continue to meet regulatory standards or to remedy any deficiencies could result in corrective action regulatory agencies, including the interruption or prevention of marketing, closure of our biopharmaceutical manufacturing facilities, and fines and/or penalties. Regulatory authorities also will require post-marketing surveillance to monitor and report to them potential adverse effects of our product candidates. The U.S. Congress or the FDA in specific situations can modify the regulatory process. Once approved, a product’s failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could, among other things, result in warning letters, fines, suspension or revocation of regulatory approvals, product recalls or seizures, operating restrictions, injunctions, and criminal prosecutions. 59 Table of Contents The policies of all other applicable regulatory agency, may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory/marketing approval of our product candidates. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the U.S. or abroad. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we might not be permitted to market our product candidates and our business could suffer. Distribution of our product candidates outside the U.S. is subject to extensive government regulation. These regulations, including the requirements for approvals or clearance to market, the time required for regulatory review and the sanctions imposed for violations, vary from country to country. There can be no assurance that we will obtain regulatory approvals in such countries or that we will not be required to incur significant costs in obtaining or maintaining these regulatory approvals. In addition, the export by us of certain of our product candidates that have not yet been cleared for domestic commercial distribution may be subject to FDA export restrictions. Failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, the restriction, suspension or revocation of existing approvals or any other failure to comply with regulatory requirements would impair our ability to generate revenue, increase our compliance costs, and have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, and results of operations. Because the product development and the regulatory/marketing approval process for Cyrevia™, BiovaxID™ and/or any of our product candidates is expensive and its outcome is uncertain, we must incur substantial expenses that might not result in any viable product, and the process could take longer than expected. Regulatory/marketing approval of a pharmaceutical product is a lengthy, time-consuming and expensive process. Before obtaining regulatory/marketing approvals for the commercial sale of our product candidates, we must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the applicable regulatory agencies that our product candidates are safe and effective for use in humans. This is expected to result in substantial expense and require significant time. Historically, the results from pre-clinical testing and early clinical trials often have not been predictive of results obtained in later clinical trials. A number of new drugs have shown promising results in clinical trials, but subsequently failed to establish sufficient safety and efficacy data to obtain necessary regulatory/marketing approvals. Data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical activities are susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory/marketing approval. In addition, regulatory delays or rejections could be encountered as a result of many factors, including changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development. Clinical trials conducted by us or by third parties on our behalf might not be accepted by the EMA, Health Canada, the FDA or other international regulatory agencies as being a sufficient demonstration of safety, efficacy or statistical significance to support the acceptance, processing or approval of our applications to obtain the requisite regulatory approval to market for our product candidates. In such an event, regulatory authorities might require us to conduct additional clinical trials which would be both expensive and time consuming or in the alternative might not permit us to undertake any additional clinical trials for our product candidates. The length of time for clinical trials generally varies substantially according to the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of the product candidate. Although for planning purposes, we forecast the commencement and completion of clinical development, and have included many of those forecasts in reports filed with the SEC and in other public disclosures, the actual timing of these events can vary dramatically. For example, we have experienced delays in our clinical development programs in the past as a result of slower than anticipated patient enrollment and as a result of our reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Additional delays may occur. Our rate of completion of development efforts could be delayed by many factors. The timing of meetings with regulatory agencies; the requirements, cost and time necessary to prepare for regulatory meetings; and the time, expense and ability to satisfy requests or requirements made by regulatory agencies is uncertain and may vary depending on numerous circumstances and as a result of the analysis of available data. In addition, we may need to delay or suspend this regulatory process if we are unable to obtain additional funding when needed. Moreover, we have limited experience in product development and the regulatory process. Biovest has completed a single Phase 3 clinical trial for BiovaxID and the FDA has advised Biovest that it will require a second Phase 3 clinical trial as a condition for regulatory approval. BiovaxID is considered highly personalized because it is manufactured for each patient using material obtained by biopsy from that patient. Personalized drugs are considered unique which may create regulatory uncertainty. Biovest does not have an understanding or agreement with the EMA, Health Canada, the FDA, or other international regulatory agencies as to the adequacy of Biovest’s personalized manufacturing process, or the sufficiency, design or size of the BiovaxID Phase 3 clinical trial or the appropriate design, protocol or endpoints for its second Phase 3 clinical trial. Further, Biovest does not know the ultimate impact on the regulatory process which may result from the early stoppage of its initial Phase 3 clinical trial before all planned patients were enrolled, the appropriateness of analyzing only patients treated with BiovaxID or control which is considered a modified intent to treat population, the impact of analyzing sub-populations of the treated patients such as patients based on the characteristics of the patient’s tumor isotype or any other factor of the BiovaxID Phase 3 clinical trial. Biovest’s initial BiovaxID Phase 3 clinical trial spanned approximately eight years and the completion of a second Phase 3 clinical trial and any other required clinical trials (which could potentially require a different trial design) will likely take a significant number of years and funding which Biovest currently does not have. 60 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Industry Our proprietary rights may not adequately protect our technologies and product candidates. Our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining and maintaining patent protection and trade secret protection of our technologies and product candidates, as well as successfully defending these patents against third-party challenges. We will only be able to protect our technologies and product candidates from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that valid and enforceable patents or trade secrets cover them. Furthermore, the degree of future protection of our proprietary rights is uncertain because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. For Cyrevia™, we have published patent applications pending. For SinuNasal™, we hold a patent for a potential new treatment for CS. For BiovaxID™, Biovest holds the patents relating to the method of producing BiovaxID and has filed additional patent applications for BiovaxID. For AutovaxID®, Biovest has published patent application and has filed additional patent applications for AutovaxID. The patent positions of life sciences companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in such companies’ patents has emerged to date in the U.S. The patent situation outside the U.S. is even more uncertain. Changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the U.S. or other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our patents or in third-party patents. For example: • we or our licensors might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications and issued patents; • we or our licensors might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; • it is possible that none of our pending patent applications or the pending patent applications of our licensors will result in issued patents; • our issued patents and the issued patents of our licensors may not provide a basis for commercially viable products, or may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be challenged and invalidated by third parties; • we may not develop additional proprietary technologies or product candidates that are patentable; or • the patents of others may have an adverse effect on our business. We also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. While we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our strategic partners’ employees, consultants, contractors, or scientific and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. If we were to enforce a claim that a third party had illegally obtained (misappropriated) and was using our trade secrets, it would be expensive and time consuming, and the outcome would be unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the U.S. are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. Moreover, if our competitors independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods, and know-how, it will be more difficult for us to enforce our patent rights and our business could be harmed. We also rely upon unpatented, proprietary and trade secret technology that we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our collaborative partners, employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers and other advisors. There can be no assurance that these agreements provide meaningful protection or that they will not be breached, that we would have adequate remedies for any such breach or that our trade secrets, proprietary know-how and technological advances will not otherwise become known to others. In addition, there can be no assurance that, despite precautions taken by us, others have not and will not obtain access to our proprietary technology or that such technology will not be found to be non-proprietary or not a trade secret. If we are not able to defend the patent or trade secret protection position of our technologies and product candidates, then we will not be able to exclude competitors from developing or marketing competing products, and we may not generate enough revenue from product sales to justify the cost of development of our product candidates and to achieve or maintain profitability. 61 Table of Contents If we are unable to adequately protect or enforce our rights to intellectual property or secure rights to third-party patents, we may lose valuable rights, experience reduced market share, assuming any, or incur costly litigation to, enforce, maintain or protect such rights. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain and enforce patents, protect trade secrets, obtain licenses to technology owned by third parties and conduct our business without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies, including ours, can be uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions including those related to our risk evaluation and mitigation strategies. In addition, the coverage sought in a patent application can be significantly reduced before the patent is issued. Consequently, we do not know whether any of our owned or licensed pending patent applications, which have not already been allowed, will result in the issuance of patents or, if any patents are issued, whether they will be dominated by third-party patent rights, whether they will provide significant proprietary protection or commercial advantage or whether they will be circumvented, opposed, invalidated, rendered unenforceable or infringed by others. Further, we are aware of third-party U.S. patents that relate to, for example, the use of certain technologies and cannot be assured as to any impact to our potential products, or guarantee that our patents or pending applications will not be involved in, or be defeated as a result of, opposition proceedings before a foreign patent office or any interference proceedings before the United States Patent & Trademark Office (“USPTO”). With respect to patents and patent applications we have in-licensed, there can be no assurance that additional patents will be issued to any of the third parties from whom we have licensed patent rights, or that, if any new patents are issued, such patents will not be opposed, challenged, invalidated, infringed or dominated or provide us with significant proprietary protection or commercial advantage. Moreover, there can be no assurance that any of the existing licensed patents will provide us with proprietary protection or commercial advantage. Nor can we guarantee that these licensed patents will not be infringed, invalidated or circumvented by others, or that the relevant agreements will not be terminated. Any termination of material licenses granted to us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because (1) patent applications filed in the U.S. on or before November 28, 2000 are maintained in secrecy until patents issue, (2) patent applications filed in the U.S. on or after November 29, 2000 are not published until approximately 18 months after their earliest claimed priority date, (3) U.S. patent applications that are not filed outside the U.S. may not publish at all until issued and (4) publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lag behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that we, or our licensors, were the first to make the inventions covered by each of the issued patents or pending patent applications or that we, or our licensors, were the first to file patent applications for such inventions. In the event a third party has also filed a patent for any of our inventions, we, or our licensors, may have to participate in interference proceedings before the USPTO to determine priority of invention, which could result in the loss of a U.S. patent or loss of any opportunity to secure U.S. patent protection for the invention. Even if the eventual outcome is favorable to us, such interference proceedings could result in substantial cost to us. Competitors have chosen and in the future may choose to file oppositions to patent applications, which have been deemed allowable by foreign patent examiners. Furthermore, even if our owned or licensed patents are determined to be valid and enforceable, there can be no assurance that competitors will not be able to challenge the validity or our patent claims in post-grant proceedings, or to design around such patents and compete with us using the resulting alternative technology. Additionally, for these same reasons, we cannot be sure that patents of a broader scope than ours may be issued and thereby create freedom to operate issues. If this occurs we may need to reevaluate pursuing such technology, which is dominated by others’ patent rights, or alternatively, seek a license to practice our own invention, whether or not patented. Our intellectual property rights will further be affected in ways that are difficult to anticipate by the provisions of the America Invents Act (2011). Enacted in September 2011, the America Invents Act is the first major overhaul of the U.S. patent system since 1952, and includes a number of changes to established practices. The most significant changes include the transition to a modified first-to-file system, the availability of new post-grant review for issued patents, various procedural changes including the third-party submission of prior art and the availability of derivation proceedings and supplemental examination, and an expanded prior commercial user rights defense to a claim of patent infringement. The scope of these changes and the lack of experience with their practical implementation, suggest a transitional period with some uncertainty over the next few years. For example, while some provisions have already taken effect, others will take effect up to 18 months from enactment. The USPTO is still in the process of publishing regulations concerning the implementation of the America Invents Act. Several provisions of the America Invents Act will likely be tested in U.S. federal courts over time. 62 Table of Contents The changes to the U.S. patent system in the America Invents Act will have an impact on our intellectual property rights and how business is conducted in general. For example, the modified first-to-file system places premium on filing as early as possible and appears to increase what is available as prior art, by changing the applicable definitions. In the future, in addition to patents and printed publications, we may be required to deal with unfamiliar prior art categories such as art that is “otherwise available to the public”. For patent applications filed on or after March 16, 2013, we may expect post-grant review challenges initiated up to nine months after the corresponding patent issues. While the America Invents Act was intended to make the resolution of intellectual property disputes easier and less expensive, we may in the future have to prove that we are not infringing patents or we may be required to obtain licenses to such patents. However, we do not know whether such licenses will be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Prosecution of patent applications, post-grant opposition proceedings, and litigation to establish the validity and scope of patents, to assert patent infringement claims against others and to defend against patent infringement claims by others will be expensive and time-consuming. There can be no assurance that, in the event that claims of any of our owned or licensed patents are challenged by one or more third parties, any court or patent authority ruling on such challenge will determine that such patent claims are valid and enforceable. An adverse outcome in such litigation or post grant proceeding could cause us to lose exclusivity relating to the subject matter delineated by such patent claims and may have a material adverse effect on our business. If a third party is found to have rights covering products or processes used by us, we could be forced to cease using the products or processes covered by the disputed rights, be subject to significant liabilities to such third party and/or be required to license technologies from such third party. Our intellectual property rights will further be affected in ways that are difficult to anticipate by the procedures of the foreign countries in which we seek patent protection. Different countries have different procedures for obtaining patents, and patents issued by different countries provide different degrees of protection against the use of a patented invention by others. There can be no assurance, therefore, that the issuance to us in one country of a patent covering an invention will be followed by the issuance in other countries of patents covering the same invention or that any judicial interpretation of the validity, enforceability or scope of the claims in a patent issued in one country will be similar to the judicial interpretation given to a corresponding patent issued in another country. The uncertainty of patent and proprietary technology protection and our potential inability to license technology from third parties may adversely affect us. Our success will depend in part on obtaining and maintaining meaningful patent protection on our inventions, technologies and discoveries. The patent position of biotechnology and pharmaceutical firms is highly uncertain and involves many complex legal and technical issues. There is no clear policy involving the breadth of claims allowed, or the degree of protection afforded, under patents in this area. Our ability to compete effectively will depend on our ability to develop and maintain proprietary aspects of our technology, as well as to operate without infringing, or, if necessary, to obtain rights to, the proprietary rights of others. Our pending patent applications might not result in the issuance of patents. Our patent applications might not have priority over others’ applications and, even if issued, our patents might not offer protection against competitors with similar technologies. Any patents issued to us might be challenged, invalidated or circumvented and the rights created thereunder may not afford us a competitive advantage. Furthermore, patents that we own or license may not enable us to preclude competitors from commercializing products, and consequently may not provide us with any meaningful competitive advantage. Our commercial success also depends in part on our neither infringing patents or proprietary rights of third parties nor breaching any licenses that we have obtained from third parties permitting us to incorporate technology into our product candidates. It is possible that we might infringe these patents or other patents or proprietary rights of third parties. In the future we might receive notices claiming infringement from third parties. Any legal action against us or our collaborative partners claiming infringement and damages or seeking to enjoin commercial activities relating to our product candidates and processes may require us or our collaborative partners to alter our product candidates, cease certain activities and/or obtain licenses in order to continue to manufacture or market the affected products and processes. In addition, these actions may subject us to potential liability for damages. We or our collaborative partners might not prevail in an action, and any license required under a patent might not be made available on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. There are many U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications held by third parties in our areas of interest, and we believe that there may be significant litigation in the industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Potential future litigation could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management’s efforts regardless of the merits or result of the litigation. Additionally, from time to time we may engage in the defense and prosecution of interference proceedings before the USPTO, and related administrative proceedings that can result in our patent position being limited or in substantial expense to us and significant diversion of effort by our technical and management personnel. In addition, laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property to the same extent as do laws in the U.S., which could subject us to additional difficulties in protecting our intellectual property in those countries. 63 Table of Contents We also rely on unpatented technology, trade secrets, technical know-how, confidential information and continuing inventions to develop and maintain our competitive position. Others might independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or disclose our technology, and we may not be able to protect our rights to our trade secrets. We seek to protect our technology and patents, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our employees and contractors. Our employees might breach their existing proprietary information, inventions and dispute resolution agreements. Accordingly, these agreements may not protect our intellectual property, and our employees’ breaches of those agreements could have a material adverse effect on us. If we are sued for infringing intellectual property rights of third parties, such litigation will be costly and time consuming, and an unfavorable outcome would have a significant adverse effect on our business. Our ability to commercialize our product candidates depends on our ability to sell such products without infringing the patents or other proprietary rights of third parties. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the various areas in which we have products or are seeking to create products, including patents relating to specific antifungal formulations and methods of using the formulations to treat infections, as well as patents relating to serum-based vaccines and methods for detection of cancer. The interpretation of patent claims is complex and uncertain. The legal standards governing claim interpretations are evolving and changing. Thus, any significant changes in the legal standards would impact the way that we interpret the claims of third-party patents in our product candidate areas. In addition, because patent applications can take several years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that our product candidates may infringe. There could also be existing patents of which we are not aware that our product candidates may inadvertently infringe. If a third party claims that we infringe on their patents or other proprietary rights, we could face a number of issues that could seriously harm our competitive position, including: • infringement and other intellectual property claims which, with or without merit, can be costly and time consuming to litigate and can delay the regulatory approval process and divert management’s attention from our core business strategy; • substantial damages for past infringement which we may have to pay if a court determines that our product candidates or technologies infringe upon a competitor’s patent or other proprietary rights; • a court prohibiting us from selling or licensing our product candidates or technologies unless the holder licenses the patent or other proprietary rights to us, which it is not required to do; • if a license is available from a holder, we may have to pay substantial royalties or grant cross licenses to our patents or other proprietary rights; and • redesigning our process so that it does not infringe, which may not be possible or may require substantial time and expense. Such actions could harm our competitive position and our ability to generate revenue and could result in increased costs. We may not be able to maintain sufficient product liability insurance to cover claims against us. Product liability insurance for the biopharmaceutical industry is generally expensive to the extent it is available at all. We, along with Biovest, presently maintain product liability insurance coverage in the aggregate and per occurrence of $2.0 million, in connection with our product candidates and our products and services, in amounts which we believe to be adequate and on acceptable terms. Although, we believe that our current level of coverage is adequate to protect our business from foreseeable product liability claims, we may seek to increase our insurance coverage in the future in the event that we significantly increase our level of contract product and services and/or the initiation of any clinical trial program. There can be no assurance; however, that we will be able to maintain our existing coverage or obtain additional coverage on acceptable terms, or that such insurance will provide adequate coverage against all potential claims to which we may be exposed. A successful partially or completely uninsured claim against us could have a material adverse effect on our operations. A successful claim against us with respect to uninsured liabilities or in excess of insurance coverage and not subject to any indemnification or contribution could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, and results of operations. 64 Table of Contents The market may not be receptive to our product candidates upon their introduction. The biopharmaceutical products that we may develop may not achieve market acceptance among physicians, patients, health care payors, and the medical community. The degree of market acceptance will depend upon a number of factors, including • the receipt of regulatory approvals; • limited indications of regulatory approvals; • the establishment and demonstration in the medical community of the clinical efficacy and safety of our product candidates and their potential advantages over existing treatment methods; • the prices of such products; • reimbursement policies of government and third-party payors; • market acceptance of patient-specific active immunotherapies, in the case of BiovaxID™; • the prevalence and severity of any side effects; • potential advantages over alternative treatments; • ability to produce our product candidates at a competitive price; • stocking and distribution; • relative convenience and ease of administration; • the strength of marketing and distribution support; and • sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement. The failure of our product candidates to gain market acceptance could impair our ability to generate revenue, which could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. Healthcare policy changes, including recently enacted legislation reforming the U.S. healthcare system, may have material adverse effects on our commercialization of our product candidates. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, (collectively, the “PPACA”) enacted in March 2010 makes changes that could significantly impact the development and commercialization of our products. Significant measures contained in the PPACA include, for example, coordination and promotion of research on comparative clinical effectiveness of different technologies and procedures, initiatives to revise Medicare payment methodologies, such as bundling of payments across the continuum of care by providers and physicians, and initiatives to promote quality indicators in payment methodologies. The PPACA also includes significant new fraud and abuse measures, including required disclosures of financial arrangements with physician customers, lower thresholds for violations and increasing potential penalties for such violations. In addition, the PPACA establishes an IPAB, to reduce the per capita rate of growth in Medicare spending. The IPAB has broad discretion to propose policies to reduce expenditures, which may have a negative impact on payment rates for services or therapeutics, including therapeutics like Cyrevia, BiovaxID and/or any of our product candidates. In addition to the PPACA, the effect of which cannot presently be fully quantified given its relatively recent enactment, various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged from federal and state governments. Changes in healthcare policy could substantially impact the development and commercialization of our product candidates. We cannot predict whether future healthcare initiatives will be implemented at the federal or state level or in countries outside of the U.S., in which we may do business, or the effect any future legislation or regulation will have on us. The taxes imposed by the new federal legislation and the expansion in government’s role in the U.S. healthcare industry may result in decreased profits to us, lower reimbursements by payers for our product candidates or reduced medical procedure volumes, all of which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, possibly materially. 65 Table of Contents The insurance coverage and reimbursement status of newly approved products is uncertain and failure to obtain or maintain adequate coverage and reimbursement for new or current products could limit our ability to market those products and decrease our ability to generate revenue. There is significant uncertainty related to the insurance coverage and reimbursement of newly approved products. The commercial success of our product candidates in both domestic and international markets is substantially dependent on whether third-party coverage and reimbursement is available for the ordering of our product candidates by the medical profession for use by their patients. Medicare, Medicaid, health maintenance organizations, and other third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement of new products, and, as a result, they may not cover or provide adequate payment for our product candidates. Our product candidates could, if approved face declining revenues if competitor products are perceived as providing a substantially equivalent therapeutic effect at a lower cost to the payor. They may not view our product candidates as cost-effective and reimbursement may not be available to consumers or may not be sufficient to allow our product candidates to be marketed on a competitive basis. Likewise, legislative or regulatory efforts to control or reduce healthcare costs or reform government healthcare programs could result in lower prices or rejection of our product candidates. Changes in coverage and reimbursement policies or healthcare cost containment initiatives that limit or restrict reimbursement for our product candidates may cause our revenue to decline. Sales of our products candidates will be significantly reduced if access to and reimbursement for our products candidates by governmental and other third-party payers is reduced or terminated. Sales of our product candidates will depend, in part, on the extent to which the costs of our product candidates will be paid by health maintenance, managed care, pharmacy benefit and similar health care management organizations, or reimbursed by government health administration authorities, private health coverage insurers and other third-party payers. Generally, in the EU, Canada and other countries outside the U.S., the government-sponsored healthcare system is the primary payer of healthcare costs of patients. These health care management organizations and third-party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Additionally, the Health Care Reform Act of 2010 (“Health Care Reform Act”), which became effective in January 2011, has provided sweeping health care reform in the U.S., which may impact the prices of drugs. In addition to the federal legislation, state legislatures and foreign governments have also shown significant interest in implementing cost-containment programs, including price controls, restrictions on reimbursement and requirements for substitution of generic products. The establishment of limitations on patient access to our product candidates, adoption of price controls and cost-containment measures in new jurisdictions or programs, and adoption of more restrictive policies in jurisdictions with existing controls and measures, including the impact of the Health Care Reform Act, could adversely impact our business and future results. If these organizations and third-party payers do not consider our product candidates to be cost-effective compared to other available therapies, they may not reimburse providers or consumers of our product candidates or, if they do, the level of reimbursement may not be sufficient to allow us to sell our product candidates on a profitable basis. Reimbursement in the EU and Canada involves decisions, applications and compliance with various Member States in the instance of the EU and various provinces in the instance of Canada. Such non-centralized reimbursement requirements may result in delays, added expense and limitations on marketing access. Outside the U.S., international operations are generally subject to extensive governmental price controls and other market regulations, and we believe the increasing emphasis on cost-containment initiatives in EU, Canada, and other countries has and will continue to put pressure on the pricing and usage of our product candidates. Although we cannot predict the extent to which our business may be affected by future cost-containment measures or other potential legislative or regulatory developments, additional foreign price controls or other changes in pricing regulation could restrict the amount that we are able to charge for our product candidates, which could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. The availability and amount of reimbursement for our products candidates and the manner in which government and private payers may reimburse for our products candidates is uncertain. In many of the markets where we may do business in the future, the prices of pharmaceutical products are subject to direct price controls pursuant to applicable law or regulation and to drug reimbursement programs with varying price control mechanisms. We expect that many of the patients who seek treatment with our product candidates, if approved for marketing will be eligible for Medicare benefits. Other patients may be covered by private health plans or uninsured. The Medicare program is administered by the CMS, an agency within the HSS. Coverage and reimbursement for products and services under Medicare are determined pursuant to regulations promulgated by CMS and pursuant to CMS’s subregulatory coverage and reimbursement determinations. It is difficult to predict how CMS may apply those regulations and subregulatory determinations to newly approved products, especially novel products such as ours, and those regulations and interpretive determinations are subject to change. 66 Table of Contents Moreover, the methodology under which CMS makes coverage and reimbursement determinations is subject to change, particularly because of budgetary pressures facing the Medicare program. For example, the Medicare Modernization Act, enacted in December 2003, provides for a change in reimbursement methodology that reduces the Medicare reimbursement rates for many drugs, including oncology therapeutics, which may adversely affect reimbursement for our product candidates, if it is approved for sale. If we are unable to obtain or retain adequate levels of reimbursement from Medicare or from private health plans, our ability to profitably sell our product candidates will be adversely affected. Medicare regulations and interpretive determinations also may determine who may be reimbursed for certain services. This may adversely affect our ability to profitably market or sell our product candidates, if approved. In addition, government and private health plans persistently challenge the price and cost-effectiveness of therapeutic products. Accordingly, these third parties may ultimately not consider our product candidates to be cost-effective, which could result in products not being covered under their health plans or covered only at a lower price. Any of these initiatives or developments could prevent us from successfully marketing and selling any of our potential products on a profitable basis. We are unable to predict what impact the Medicare Modernization Act or other future regulation or third party payer initiatives, if any, relating to reimbursement for our product candidates will have on sales of our product candidates, if approved for sale. In the EU, each Member State influences the price of pharmaceutical products through their pricing and reimbursement rules and control of national health care systems that fund a large part of the cost of such products to consumers. The approach taken varies from Member State to Member State. Some jurisdictions operate positive and/or negative list systems under which products may only be marketed once a reimbursement price has been agreed. Other EU Member States allow companies to fix their own prices for medicines, but monitor and control company profits. The downward pressure on health care costs in general, particularly prescription drugs, has become very intense. As a result, increasingly high barriers are being erected to the entry of new products, as exemplified by the role of the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence in the United Kingdom which evaluates the data supporting new medicines and passes reimbursement recommendations to the government. In addition, in some countries cross-border imports from low-priced markets (parallel imports) exert commercial pressure on pricing within a country. All of these factors could adversely impact our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates in these jurisdictions. We could be negatively impacted by the application or enforcement of federal and state fraud and abuse laws, including anti-kickback laws and other federal and state anti-referral laws. We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws and physician self-referral laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including, in some instances, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, including the Medicare, Medicaid and Veterans Administration health programs. Because of the far-reaching nature of these laws, we may be required to alter or discontinue one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws. Healthcare fraud and abuse regulations are complex, and even minor irregularities can potentially give rise to claims that a statute or prohibition has been violated. Any violations of these laws, or any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If there is a change in law, regulation or administrative or judicial interpretations, we may have to change or discontinue our business practices or our existing business practices could be challenged as unlawful, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we could become subject to false claims litigation under federal statutes, which can lead to treble damages based on the reimbursements by federal health care programs, civil money penalties (including penalties levied on a per false claim basis), restitution, criminal fines and imprisonment, and exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. These false claims statutes include the False Claims Act, which allows any person to bring suit on behalf of the federal government alleging the submission of false or fraudulent claims, or causing to present such false or fraudulent claims, under federal programs or contracts claims or other violations of the statute and to share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. These suits against biotechnology companies have increased significantly in recent years and have increased the risk that a healthcare company will have to defend a false claim action, pay fines or restitution, or be excluded from the Medicare, Medicaid or other federal and state healthcare programs as a result of an investigation arising out of such action. We cannot assure you that we will not become subject to such litigation or, if we are not successful in defending against such actions, that such actions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we cannot assure you that the costs of defending claims or allegations under the False Claims Act will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 67 Table of Contents Risks Related to Product Candidates The clinical trials for our product candidates may demonstrate that certain side effects may be associated with the treatments and ongoing or future clinical trials may reveal additional unexpected or unanticipated side effects. We cannot guarantee that our current or future trials for our product candidates will not demonstrate additional adverse side effects that may delay or even preclude regulatory approval. Even if our product candidates receive regulatory approval, if we or others identify previously unknown side effects following approval, regulatory approval could be withdrawn and sales of our product candidates could be significantly reduced. Inability to obtain regulatory approval for our manufacturing facility or to manufacture on a commercial scale may delay or disrupt our commercialization efforts. Before we can obtain regulatory approval in any jurisdiction for any new drug, the manufacturing facility for the drug must be inspected and approved by the particular regulatory agency. In order to obtain regulatory approval, we will need to ensure that all of our processes, methods, and equipment are compliant with cGMP, and perform extensive audits of vendors, contract laboratories, and suppliers. The cGMP requirements govern quality control of the manufacturing process and documentation policies and procedures. We have undertaken steps towards achieving compliance with these regulatory requirements required for commercialization. In complying with cGMP, we will be obligated to expend time, money, and effort in production, record keeping, and quality control to assure that the product meets applicable specifications and other requirements. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we could experience product liability claims from patients receiving our product candidates, we might be subject to possible regulatory action and we may be limited in the jurisdictions in which we are permitted to sell. In order to commercialize any of our product candidates, we will need to develop and qualify one or more additional manufacturing facilities. Preparing a facility for commercial manufacturing may involve unanticipated delays, and the costs of complying with state, local, FDA and foreign regulatory authorities’ regulations may be higher than we anticipate. In addition, any material changes we make to the manufacturing process may require approval by state, local, FDA and foreign regulatory authorities. Obtaining these approvals is a lengthy, involved process, and we may experience delays. Such delays could increase costs and adversely affect our business. In general, the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities view cGMP standards as being more rigorously applied as products move forward in development and commercialization. In seeking to comply with these standards, we may encounter problems with, among other things, controlling costs and quality control and assurance. It may be difficult to maintain compliance with cGMP standards as the development and commercialization of product candidates progress, if the progress. We and our product candidates are subject to comprehensive regulation by the FDA and by foreign regulatory agencies. These regulatory agencies and other federal and state entities regulate, among other things, the preclinical and clinical testing, safety, approval, manufacture, labeling, marketing, export, storage, record keeping, advertising and promotion of our product candidates. If we violate regulatory requirements at any stage, whether before or after marketing approval is obtained, we may be subject to forced removal of a product from the market, product seizure, civil and criminal penalties and other adverse consequences. The FDA’s determination that SinuNasal™ is to be regulated as a combination product with a drug primary mode of action rather than as a medical device will, if not overturned, adversely affect our ability to commercialize SinuNasal, and may cause us to discontinue the project. The FDA has ruled that it will regulate SinuNasal as a combination product with a drug primary mode of action rather than as a medical device. In the event we elect to pursue litigation to overturn the FDA’s determination, the outcome is uncertain. If we choose not to litigate, or if we litigate and do not prevail, the FDA’s decision will significantly increase the cost and time needed to bring SinuNasal to market. We may choose to discontinue the effort to market SinuNasal rather than acquiesce in regulation of this product as a drug. We are dependent on a sole-source supplier for cyclophosphamide, Cyrevia™’s active ingredient. We are dependent on a sole-source supplier for cyclophosphamide. We are repurposing cyclophosphamide and administering it as part of our integrated risk-management system designed to assume consistency in use and to minimize the risks of treatment. Cyclophosphamide is currently FDA approved to treat disorders other than autoimmune disease, including various forms of cancer. To facilitate our development and commercialization of Cyrevia™, effective on November 29, 2010, we entered into an agreement (the “Baxter Agreement”) with Baxter Healthcare Corporation (“Baxter”), making Baxter our exclusive source of cyclophosphamide under an agreed-upon price structure. We believe that Baxter is the only cGMP manufacturer approved in the U.S. by the FDA of injectable/infusion cyclophosphamide (under the brand name, Cytoxan®) used in the U.S. as referenced in the FDA Orange Book. The Baxter Agreement grants us the exclusive right to use Baxter’s regulatory file and drug history (“Drug Master File”) for Cytoxan, which we believe will advance our planned clinical trials and anticipated communications with the FDA. 68 Table of Contents The Baxter Agreement secures for us the exclusive right to purchase Baxter’s Cytoxan for the treatment of various autoimmune diseases, including autoimmune hemolytic anemia, multiple sclerosis, systemic sclerosis and the prevention of graft-versus-host disease following bone marrow transplanting connection with the designated autoimmune disease indications. The initial term of the Baxter Agreement commenced on November 29, 2010 and will continue until the earlier of (a) the date that is five years following the first arms’ length commercial sale by us to a third party of products incorporating cyclophosphamide for an indication within the exclusive clinical field defined in the Baxter Agreement and (b) November 29, 2020. Upon the expiration of the initial term, the Baxter Agreement will be automatically renewed for successive two year periods unless either party terminates the Baxter Agreement upon at least twelve months written notice prior to the relevant termination date. The Baxter Agreement is subject to early termination by Baxter for various reasons, including a material breach of the Baxter Agreement by us, a change in control of our Company, our failure to file an IND within 24 months of the date of the Baxter Agreement for a product within the scope of our exclusivity under the Baxter Agreement, or we does not make our first commercial sale of such a product within six years of the date the first clinical trial patient is dosed with Cytoxan. Establishing additional or replacement suppliers for these materials or components may require a substantial amount of time. In addition, we may have difficulty obtaining similar components from other suppliers that are acceptable to the specific regulatory agencies. If we have to switch to a replacement supplier, we may face additional regulatory delays and the manufacture and delivery of Cyrevia could be interrupted for an extended period of time, which may delay commercialization of Cyrevia. If, we are unable to obtain adequate amounts of these components, we may be required to obtain regulatory clearance from the specific regulatory agencies to use different components that may not be as safe or as effective. As a result, regulatory/marketing approval of Cyrevia may be suspended or delayed or may not be received at all. All these delays could cause delays in commercialization of Cyrevia, delays in our ability to generate revenue from Cyrevia, and increased costs. Risks Related to Biovest Business Segments Biovest’s clinical trials for BiovaxID™ were not regarded by the FDA as conclusive and the FDA has required Biovest, to conduct a second Phase 3 clinical trial, for this product candidate. In July 2012, Biovest conducted a formal clinical meeting with the FDA in order to define the path for BiovaxID’s U.S. marketing approval. In its guidance, the FDA required that Biovest conduct a second Phase 3 clinical trial to complete the clinical data gained through Biovest’s Phase 3 clinical trial and its BiovaxID development program to support the filing of the BLA for BiovaxID. Biovest is preparing to initiate this second Phase 3 clinical trial to advance BiovaxID toward U.S. market, subject to availability of funding. Biovest continues to advance its efforts to comply with various regulatory validations and comparability requirements related to our manufacturing process and facility. However, no assurance can be given that substantial additional requirements will not be imposed by the FDA for the approval of BiovaxID. Biovest will experience significant additional costs and delay due to its second Phase 3 clinical trial, which may frustrate, delay, or render impossible marketing approval or commercialization. The NCI is not precluded from working with other companies on developing products that are competitive with BiovaxID™. Biovest’s BiovaxID vaccine is based on research and studies conducted at the NCI. The concept of producing a patient-specific anti-cancer vaccine through the hybridoma method from a patient’s own cancer cells has been discussed in a variety of publications over a period of many years, and, accordingly, the general method and concept of such a vaccine is not eligible to be patented by us, the NCI, or any other party. Until November 2006, Biovest was a party to a Cooperative Research and Development Agreement (“CRADA”), with the NCI for the development of a hybridoma-based patient-specific idiotypic vaccine for the treatment of indolent FL. Although the NCI transferred sponsorship of the IND for BiovaxID to Biovest in 2004, and although there are certain confidentiality protections for information generated pursuant to the CRADA, the CRADA does not prevent the NCI from working with other companies on other hybridoma-based idiotypic vaccines for indolent FL or other forms of cancer, and the NCI or its future partners may be able to utilize certain technology developed under our prior CRADA. If the NCI chooses to work with other companies in connection with the development of such a vaccine, such other companies may also develop technology and know-how that may ultimately enable such companies to develop products that compete with BiovaxID. Additionally, through their partnership with the NCI, these companies could develop immunotherapies for other forms of cancer that may serve as barriers to any future products candidates that Biovest may develop for such indications. 69 Table of Contents Biovest has been dependent on a sole-source supplier for KLH, a critical raw material used in the manufacture of BiovaxID™, and physicians who administer BiovaxID depend on a sole-source supplier for GM-CSF, an immune system stimulant administered with BiovaxID. Biovest has been dependent on a sole-source supplier for KLH, a critical raw material used in the manufacture of BiovaxID, and physicians who administer BiovaxID depend on a sole-source supplier for GM-CSF, an immune system stimulant administered with BiovaxID. In particular, manufacture of BiovaxID requires KLH, a foreign carrier protein. Biovest has historically purchased KLH from BioSyn Arzneimittel GmbH (“BioSyn”), which was a single source supplier. Biovest entered into a supply agreement with BioSyn during Biovest’s Phase 3 clinical trial of BiovaxID, pursuant to which BioSyn agreed to supply Biovest with KLH. That supply agreement has terminated, and Biovest is currently evaluating a potential agreement with BioSyn to supply us with the amounts of KLH necessary for commercialization. Additionally, Biovest has become aware of alternative suppliers who now market KLH and is also currently evaluating these potential suppliers and determining the steps necessary to confirm the equivalence of their product with the KLH supplied by BioSyn. However, Biovest has not yet established a relationship with these suppliers and Biovest has not completed testing to insure that the KLH supplied by them is suitable for use in the BiovaxID production process. When BiovaxID is administered, the administering physician uses a cytokine to enhance the patient’s immune response, and this cytokine is administered concurrently with BiovaxID. The cytokine used by physicians for this purpose is GM-CSF. GM-CSF is a substance that is purchased by the administering physician and is administered with an antigen to enhance or increase the immune response to that antigen. The physicians who administer BiovaxID will rely on Genzyme Corporation, as a supplier of GM-CSF, and these physicians will generally not have the benefit of a long-term supply contract. Currently, GM-CSF is not commercially available from other sources in the U.S. While KLH and GM-CSF are generic products, Biovest may purchase and include GM-CSF in its product packaging and if so would be responsible for regulatory compliance issues. Establishing additional or replacement suppliers for these materials or components may require a substantial amount of time. In addition, Biovest may have difficulty obtaining similar components from other suppliers that are acceptable to the specific regulatory agencies. If Biovest has to switch to a replacement supplier, Biovest may face additional regulatory delays and the manufacture and delivery of BiovaxID could be interrupted for an extended period of time, which may delay commercialization of BiovaxID. If, Biovest is unable to obtain adequate amounts of these components, Biovest may be required to obtain regulatory clearance from the specific regulatory agencies to use different components that may not be as safe or as effective. As a result, regulatory/marketing approval of BiovaxID may be suspended or delayed or may not be received at all. All these delays could cause delays in commercialization of BiovaxID, delays in Biovest’s ability to generate revenue from BiovaxID, and increased costs. GM-CSF is not approved for commercial sale outside of the U.S. Therefore, if the foreign regulatory agencies require GM-CSF to be administered along with BiovaxID™, then GM-CSF must also be approved in those particular foreign countries. To enhance or increase a patient’s immune response, GM-CSF is administered by the patient’s physician concurrently with BiovaxID. If a foreign regulatory agency requires the administration of GM-CSF concurrently with BiovaxID to approve Biovest’s marketing approval application, then in order to achieve marketing approval for BiovaxID in that foreign market, GM-CSF must also receive regulatory/marketing approval in that foreign market. GM-CSF is currently only approved for sale in the U.S., but and is currently not approved for sale in any foreign markets. As a result, foreign regulatory/marketing approval of BiovaxID may be suspended or delayed or may not be received at all. These delays could cause delays in the foreign commercialization of BiovaxID, delays in Biovest’s ability to generate revenue from BiovaxID, and increased costs. Biovest may purchase and include GM-CSF in Biovest’s product packaging and if so, would be responsible for regulatory compliance issues. Biovest may experience difficulties in manufacturing BiovaxID™ or in obtaining regulatory/marketing approval of the change in Biovest’s manufacturing site or process from the FDA or international regulatory agencies, which could prevent or delay Biovest in the commercialization of BiovaxID. Manufacturing BiovaxID is complex and requires coordination internally among our employees, as well as, externally with physicians, hospitals, and third-party suppliers and carriers. This process involves several risks that may lead to failures or delays in manufacturing BiovaxID, including: • difficulties in obtaining adequate tumor samples from physicians; • difficulties in timely shipping of tumor samples to Biovest or in the shipping of BiovaxID to the treating physicians due to errors by third-party carriers, transportation restrictions, or other reasons; 70 Table of Contents • destruction of, or damage to, tumor samples or BiovaxID during the shipping process due to the improper handling by third-party carriers, hospitals, physicians or Biovest; • destruction of, or damage to, tumor samples or BiovaxID during storage at Biovest’s facility; and • difficulties in ensuring the availability, quality, and consistency of materials provided by Biovest’s suppliers. If Biovest experiences any difficulties in manufacturing BiovaxID, the commercialization of BiovaxID may be delayed, resulting in delays in generating revenue and increased costs. In addition, because Biovest has relocated the site of the manufacturing process to its Minneapolis (Coon Rapids), Minneapolis facility following the BiovaxID Phase 3 clinical trial, Biovest is required to demonstrate to the FDA that the product developed under new conditions is comparable to the product that was the subject of earlier clinical testing. This requirement applies to the relocation at the Minneapolis (Coon Rapids), Minneapolis facility, as well as future expansion of the manufacturing facility, such as the possible expansion to additional facilities that may be required for successful regulatory/marketing approvals or commercialization of the vaccine, resulting in increased costs. There is also a requirement for validation of the manufacturing process for BiovaxID utilizing Biovest’s AutovaxID® instrument. A showing of comparability requires data demonstrating that the product is consistent with that produced for the clinical trial and continues to be safe, pure, and potent and may be based on chemical, physical, and biological assays and, in some cases, other non-clinical data. This demonstration is based on various methods, as recommended in the FDA and International Conference of Harmonisation (“ICH”) regulatory guidelines. If Biovest demonstrates chemistry, manufacturing and controls (“CMC”) comparability, additional clinical safety and/or efficacy trials with the new product may not be needed. The FDA will determine if comparability data are sufficient to demonstrate that additional clinical studies are unnecessary. If the FDA requires additional clinical safety or efficacy trials to demonstrate comparability, our clinical trials or FDA approval of BiovaxID may be delayed, which would cause delays in generating revenue and increased costs. The ongoing detailed analysis being performed in Biovest’s clinical trials for BiovaxID™ may produce negative or inconclusive results and may delay Biovest’s efforts to obtain regulatory/marketing approval for this product. Biovest is currently engaged in performing detailed analyses of the safety and efficacy data generated by Biovest’s Phase 3 clinical trial of BiovaxID in FL and Biovest’s Phase 2 clinical trial in MCL. Biovest cannot predict with certainty the results of the analyses, and if the results are negative or inconclusive Biovest may decide, or regulators may require it, to conduct additional clinical and/or preclinical testing for this product candidate or cease Biovest’s clinical trials. If this happens, Biovest may not be able to obtain regulatory/marketing approval for BiovaxID for FL, MCL or both, or the anticipated time to market for this product may be substantially delayed, and Biovest may also experience significant additional development costs. Inability to obtain regulatory/marketing approval for Biovest’s manufacturing facility or to manufacture on a commercial scale may delay or disrupt our commercialization efforts. Before Biovest can obtain domestic or foreign regulatory/marketing approval for any new drug, the manufacturing facility for the drug must be inspected and approved by the particular regulatory agency. Biovest plans to establish a dedicated BiovaxID™ manufacturing facility within its existing Minneapolis (Coon Rapids), Minnesota leasehold space. Therefore, before Biovest can obtain regulatory agency’s approval necessary to allow Biovest to begin commercially manufacturing BiovaxID, Biovest must pass a pre-approval inspection of its BiovaxID manufacturing facility by the particular regulatory agency. In order to obtain marketing approval, Biovest will need to ensure that all of its processes, methods, and equipment are cGMP compliant, and perform extensive audits of vendors, contract laboratories, and suppliers. The cGMP requirements govern quality control of the manufacturing process and documentation policies and procedures. Biovest has undertaken steps towards achieving compliance with these regulatory requirements required for commercialization. In complying with cGMP, Biovest will be obligated to expend time, money, and effort in production, record keeping, and quality control to assure that BiovaxID meets applicable specifications and other requirements. If Biovest fails to comply with these requirements, Biovest could experience product liability claims from patients receiving BiovaxID, Biovest might be subject to possible regulatory action and Biovest may be limited in the jurisdictions in which it is permitted to sell BiovaxID. 71 Table of Contents In order to commercialize BiovaxID, Biovest will need to develop and qualify one or more additional manufacturing facilities. Preparing a facility for commercial manufacturing may involve unanticipated delays, and the costs of complying with state, federal, and foreign regulatory authorities’ regulations may be higher than Biovest anticipates. In addition, any material changes Biovest makes to the manufacturing process may require approval by the state, federal, and foreign regulatory authorities. Obtaining these approvals is a lengthy, involved process, and Biovest may experience delays. Such delays could increase costs and adversely affect Biovest’s business. In general, the domestic and foreign regulatory authorities view cGMP standards as being more rigorously applied as products move forward in development and commercialization. In seeking to comply with these standards, Biovest may encounter problems with, among other things, controlling costs and quality control and assurance. It may be difficult to maintain compliance with cGMP standards as the development and commercialization of BiovaxID progresses, if it progresses. We and our product candidates are subject to comprehensive regulation by the domestic and foreign regulatory agencies. These regulatory agencies and other federal and state entities regulate, among other things, the preclinical and clinical testing, safety, approval, manufacture, labeling, marketing, export, storage, record keeping, advertising and promotion of our product candidates. If we, violate regulatory requirements at any stage, whether before or after regulatory/marketing approval is obtained, we may be subject to forced removal of a product from the market, product seizure, civil and criminal penalties and other adverse consequences. The BiovaxID™ clinical trials have demonstrated that certain side effects may be associated with this treatment and ongoing or future clinical trials may reveal additional unexpected or unanticipated side effects. Biovest cannot guarantee that its current or future clinical trials for BiovaxID will not demonstrate additional adverse side effects that may delay or even preclude regulatory/marketing approval. Even if BiovaxID receives regulatory/marketing approval from any jurisdiction, if Biovest or others identify previously unknown side effects following approval, regulatory/marketing approval could be withdrawn and sales of BiovaxID could be significantly reduced. Biovest is not able to prevent third parties, including potential competitors, from developing and selling an anti-cancer vaccine for NHL having the same composition of matter as BiovaxID™. Biovest’s BiovaxID vaccine is based on research and studies conducted at the NCI. As a result of published studies, the concept of the vaccine and its composition are in the public domain and cannot be patented by Biovest, the NCI, or any other party. Biovest has filed U.S. and foreign patents applications on certain features of the integrated production and purification system used to produce and purify the vaccine in an automated closed system. Biovest has obtained an exclusive worldwide license from Stanford for use of a proprietary cell line which Biovest uses to manufacture BiovaxID, but Biovest cannot be certain that it will be successful in preventing others from utilizing this cell line or will be able to maintain and enforce the exclusive license in all jurisdictions. Biovest cannot prevent other companies using different manufacturing processes from developing active immunotherapies that directly compete with BiovaxID. However, as a result of the FDA’s Orphan Drug designation for the treatment of FL, MCL and WM, Biovest has seven years of market exclusivity in the U.S. from the date of FDA marketing approval for these three subtypes of B-cell NHL. Biovest has ten years of market exclusivity in the EU as a result of the EMA’s Orphan Medicinal Product designation for the treatment of FL and MCL. Several companies, such as Spectrum Pharmaceutical, Inc., GlaxoSmithKline, Genentech, Inc., Corixa Corporation, Biogen Idec, and Immunomedics, Inc., are involved in the development of passive immunotherapies for NHL. These passive immunotherapies include Rituxan®, a monoclonal antibody, and Zevalin®, which are passive radioimmunotherapy products. Passive immunotherapies, particularly, Rituxan, are well accepted and established in the treatment of NHL and as such will impact both regulatory considerations and market penetration. Biovest is developing cell-based manufacturing instruments. The development of such instruments is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. Biovest is developing cell-based manufacturing instruments. The development of such instruments is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties including the availability of funds required to support ongoing engineering, development and marketing; the ability of Biovest’s instruments to meet the requirements or expectations of potential customers; Biovest’s ability to meet the requirements of agencies of the DoD that currently support ongoing development efforts; the acceptance of its instruments by potential customers and various risks associated with engineering and developing new instruments. In Biovest’s efforts to develop cell-based instruments, Biovest has a large degree relied upon contracts and CRADAs with various agencies of the DoD. The ability to obtain additional contracts and/or agreements from such agencies and/or the ability to perform existing and future arrangements to the satisfaction of such agencies is uncertain and therefore represents a risk associated with Biovest’s development efforts. 72 Table of Contents There are many kinds of technologies for the manufacture of cell-based products. The technology relied upon by Biovest’s instruments and development efforts is referred to as hollow fiber perfusion which is not widely accepted for large-scale manufacturing and, notwithstanding Biovest’s development efforts, may not become widely accepted in the future. Biovest’s hollow fiber bioreactors must compete with many other kinds of cell-based manufacturing instruments including, but not limited to, stirred-tank reactors; airlift fermentors; roller bottles; packed bed reactors; two-chamber reactors; ceramic matrix systems; batch fermentation techniques; and WAVE bioreactors. There can be no assurance that Biovest’s hollow fiber systems will gain widespread acceptance competing with these other established technologies marketed by industry leaders such as General Electric, Lonza, 3M, Sartorius Stedim, Thermo Scientific and Sandoz Biopharmaceuticals. Competition for cell-based instruments is intense. Most of the developers, manufacturers and marketers of cell-based manufacturing instruments are much larger, more entrenched with potential customers and better financed than Biovest which places Biovest at a competitive disadvantage. Biovest’s contract cell production services are subject to the potential of product liability claims. The contract production services for therapeutic products that Biovest offers exposes Biovest to a potential risk of liability as the proteins or other substances manufactured by Biovest, at the request of and to the specifications of Biovest’s customers, could potentially cause adverse effects. Biovest generally obtains agreements from its contract production customers indemnifying and defending Biovest from any potential liability arising from such risk. There can be no assurance; however, that Biovest will be successful in obtaining such agreements in the future or, that such indemnification agreements will adequately protect Biovest against potential claims relating to such contract production services. Biovest may also be exposed to potential product liability claims by users of its products. Biovest may seek to increase its liability insurance coverage in the future in the event of any significant increases in Biovest’s level of contract production services. There can be no assurance that Biovest will be able to maintain its existing coverage or obtain additional coverage on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or that such insurance will provide adequate coverage against all potential claims to which Biovest might be exposed. A successful partially or completely uninsured claim against Biovest would have a material adverse effect on its operations. Biovest’s contract cell production business is subject to intense competition. The contract cell production business is highly competitive. Customers can select other cell production facilities, other cell production methods and other cell production instruments. Biovest considers its business environment to be competitive. Many of Biovest’s competitors are better established with greater capital resources. Historically, Biovest’s cell production facilities, method and equipment have been primarily used to produce relatively small batches, such as those used in research and development. While Biovest is seeking broader acceptance of its cell production facilities, method and equipment for larger and commercial scale production, Biovest may not be successful in cost effectively penetrating these larger markets. Biovest uses hazardous materials in its business. Any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials could be costly and time consuming. Biovest’s manufacturing, clinical laboratory, and research and development processes involve the storage, use and disposal of hazardous substances, including hazardous chemicals and biological hazardous materials. Because Biovest handles bio-hazardous waste with respect to Biovest’s contract production services, Biovest is required to conform to its customers’ procedures and processes to the standards set by the EPA, as well as those of local environmental protection authorities. Accordingly, Biovest is subject to federal, state and local regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of materials and waste products. Although Biovest believes that its safety and environmental management practices and procedures for handling and disposing of these hazardous materials are in accordance with good industry practice and comply with applicable laws, permits, licenses and regulations, the risk of accidental environmental or human contamination or injury from the release or exposure of hazardous materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of an accident, Biovest could be held liable for any damages that result, including environmental clean-up or decontamination costs, and any such liability could exceed the limits of, or fall outside the coverage of, Biovest’s insurance. Biovest may not be able to maintain insurance on acceptable terms, or at all. Biovest could be required to incur significant costs to comply with current or future environmental and public and workplace safety and health laws and regulations. 73 Table of Contents The success of Biovest’s instruments and disposables business may be dependent in large part upon the continued provision of development services to governmental agencies. Biovest is collaborating with government agencies to further develop its AutovaxID® system and explore the potential production of additional vaccines, including vaccines for viral indications such as influenza. These development activities are being undertaken pursuant to contracts, such as CRADAs, with government agencies. Accordingly, these development activities are subject to the inherent risks associated with government contracts, including complying with the government contracting process and the government budgeting process. The success of Biovest’s instruments and disposables business for the foreseeable future may depend in large part on continued development activities and contracts with government agencies. Risks Related to Our Operations The failure to attract and retain skilled personnel could impair our product development and commercialization efforts. The success of our business depends, in large part, on the performance of our senior management and key scientific, manufacturing and technical personnel. The loss of the services of any member of our senior management, our scientific, manufacturing or technical staff may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of product development and other business objectives by diverting management’s attention to transition matters and identification of suitable replacements, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. We do not maintain key man life insurance for any of our senior management and key scientific, manufacturing and technical personnel. We are not aware of any plans by our senior management and key scientific, manufacturing and technical personnel to retire or leave us in the near future. We also rely on consultants and advisors to assist us in formulating our research and development strategy. All of our consultants and advisors are either self-employed or employed by other organizations, and they may have conflicts of interest or other commitments, such as consulting or advisory contracts with other organizations, that may affect their ability to contribute to us. In addition, we believe that we will need to recruit additional senior management and scientific, manufacturing, and technical personnel. There is currently intense competition for skilled executives and employees with relevant scientific, manufacturing and technical expertise, and this competition is likely to continue. The inability to attract and retain sufficient scientific, manufacturing, technical, and managerial personnel could limit or delay our product development efforts, which would adversely affect the development of our product candidates and the commercialization of our potential products and the growth of our business. We expect to expand our development, clinical research, and marketing capabilities, and as a result, we may encounter difficulties in managing our growth, which could disrupt our operations. We expect to have significant growth in our expenditures, the number of our employees and the scope of our operations, in particular with respect to those product candidates that we elect to commercialize independently or together with a partner. To manage our anticipated future growth, we must continue to implement and improve our managerial, operational, and financial systems, expand our facilities, and continue to recruit and train additional qualified personnel. Due to our limited resources, we may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations or recruit and train additional qualified personnel. The physical expansion of our operations may lead to significant costs and may divert our management and business development resources. Any inability to manage growth could delay the execution of our business plans or disrupt our operations. We occasionally become subject to commercial disputes that could harm our business by distracting our management from the operation of our business, by increasing our expenses and, if we do not prevail, by subjecting us to potential monetary damages and other remedies. From time to time we are engaged in disputes regarding our commercial transactions. These disputes could result in monetary damages or other remedies that could adversely impact our financial position or operations. Even if we prevail in these disputes, they may distract our management from operating our business and the cost of defending these disputes would reduce our operating results. If we do not prevail in these litigation matters or if we are required to expend a significant amount of resources defending such claims, our operating results, financial position, and cash flows could be adversely impacted. A breakdown or breach of our information technology systems could subject us to liability or interrupt the operation of our business. We rely upon our information technology systems and infrastructure for our business. The size and complexity of our computer systems make them potentially vulnerable to breakdown, malicious intrusion and random attack. Likewise, data privacy breaches by employees and others who access our systems may pose a risk that sensitive data may be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public. While we believe that we have taken appropriate security measures to protect our data and information technology systems, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could adversely affect our business. 74 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our common stock is quoted on the Over-the-Counter Market. As opposed to a larger or better accepted market, our common stock is quoted on the OTCQB™, which is the middle tier of the Over-the Counter Market (the “OTC Market”), reserved for companies that are registered and reporting with the SEC or a U.S. banking regulator. The OTCQB was launched in April 2010 by OTC Markets, Inc. to better distinguish OTC securities. There are no financial or qualitative standards to be in this tier. Thus, an investor might find it more difficult than it would be on a national exchange to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of, our securities. We cannot be certain that an active trading market will develop or, if developed, be sustained. We also cannot be certain that purchasers of our common stock will be able to resell their common stock at prices equal to or greater than their purchase price. The development of a public market having the desirable characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends upon the presence in the marketplace of a sufficient number of willing buyers and sellers at any given time. We do not have any control over whether there will be sufficient numbers of buyers and sellers. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that an established and liquid market for our common stock will develop or be maintained. The market price of our common stock could experience significant fluctuations in response to our operating results and other factors. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. These fluctuations, and general economic and market conditions, may hurt the market price of our common stock. We are also subject to a SEC rule that, if we fail to meet certain criteria set forth in such rule, the rule imposes various sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell securities governed by the rule to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. For these types of transactions, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to sale. Consequently, the rule may have an adverse effect on the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and may affect the ability of our stockholders to buy and sell our securities in the secondary market. The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers may discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in penny stocks, which could reduce the liquidity of our common stock and have a material adverse effect on the trading market for our securities. We believe we are eligible to upgrade our common stock listing to the OTCQX™, which is the top tier of the OTC Market. The OTCQX is reserved exclusively for companies that meet the highest financial standards and undergo a qualitative review, as determined by the OTC Markets. However, there can be no assurance that an OTCQX market application, if submitted, will be approved. The existence of minority shareholders in our Biovest subsidiary creates potential for conflicts of interest. We own a majority of the outstanding shares of common stock of Biovest, and the remaining Biovest stock is owned by approximately 400 shareholders. To the extent that our officers and directors are also officers or directors of Biovest, matters may arise that place the fiduciary duties of these individuals in conflicting positions. We intend that such conflicts will be resolved by independent directors of Biovest, if this occurs, matters important to us could be delayed. Francis E. O’Donnell, Jr., M.D., our Executive Chairman, is also Executive Chairman of Biovest, Samuel S. Duffey, Esq., our Chief Executive Officer, President and General Counsel, is also Chief Executive Officer, President and General Counsel of Biovest, Douglas W. Calder, our Vice President of Strategic Planning and Capital Markets is also Vice President of Strategic Planning and Capital Markets of Biovest, and Carlos F. Santos, Ph.D., our Chief Science Officer is also Senior Vice President of Product Development and Regulatory Affairs of Biovest. Shares of the Biovest stock held by us are subject to involuntary transfer under promissory notes, debentures and warrants issued by us. In November 2010 and pursuant to our Plan, we issued certain promissory notes and debentures in the aggregate principle amount of approximately $3.1 million together with certain common stock purchase warrants. The promissory notes and debentures are convertible at the option of the holder into shares of our common stock or exchangeable for shares of Biovest common stock held by us, and the common stock purchase warrants are exercisable for our common stock or shares of Biovest common stock held by us. In connection with the certain debentures and common stock purchase warrants, we have pledged 14.4 million shares of the Biovest common stock held by us to be available to holders for exchange, as well as to secure the repayment of the debentures. The total number of shares of Biovest common stock transferable by us to the holders of the debentures, whether pursuant to the exchange of the debentures, the exercise of the common stock purchase warrants, or the exercise of rights under the pledge agreements may not exceed 14.4 million shares in the aggregate. Accordingly, as of December 1, 2012, it is possible that our ownership of Biovest common stock could decrease by up to 10.0 million shares as a result of the promissory notes, debentures and/or the common stock purchase warrants. 75 Table of Contents We have also pledged a total of approximately 43.1 million shares of Biovest common stock owned by us to secure debts owed to five secured creditors. On December 20, 2012, to secure payment of an additional secured promissory note, we pledeged 6,666,666 shares of Biovest common stock owned by us. In addition, Biovest may issue shares of its common stock to third parties in connection with debt and/or equity financing transactions. In light of the foregoing, it is possible that we could cease to be the majority shareholder of Biovest. Effective November 17, 2012, Biovest entered into a standstill agreement with Corps Real and Laurus/Valens, pursuant to which allows Biovest the time and opportunity to negotiate with Corps Real and Laurus/Valens a potential restructuring of the Biovest Corps Real Note, Term A Notes, and Term B Notes (discussed herein). The outcome of the negotiations relating to the restructuring of the Biovest Matured Obligations, which may include the remainder of Biovest’s outstanding debt, may negatively affect our ownership interest in Biovest and cause our potential deconsolidation/loss of control in Biovest. There may not be a market for our common stock. Our common stock is quoted on the OTCQB™. The OTCQB is the middle tier of the OTC Market. OTCQB companies are registered and reporting with the SEC or a U.S. banking regulator, making it easier for investors to identify companies that are current in their reporting obligations. There are no financial or qualitative standards to be in this tier. The OTC Market was launched in April 2010 by OTC Markets, Inc. to better distinguish OTC securities that are registered and reporting with U.S. regulators. However, no assurance can be given that a holder of our common stock will be able to sell such securities in the future or as to the price at which such securities might trade. The liquidity of the market for such securities and the prices at which such securities trade will depend upon the number of holders thereof, the interest of securities dealers in maintaining a market in such securities and other factors beyond our control. Penny stock regulations may impose certain restrictions on the marketability of our securities. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define a “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. As a result, our common stock is subject to rules that impose additional sales practice requirements on broker dealers who sell such securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally those with assets in excess of $1.0 million or annual income exceeding $0.2 million, or $0.3 million together with their spouse). For transactions covered by such rules, the broker dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchase of such securities and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to the purchase. Additionally, for any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require the delivery, prior to the transaction, of a risk disclosure document mandated by the SEC relating to the penny stock market. The broker dealer must also disclose the commission payable to both the broker dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and, if the broker dealer is the sole market maker, the broker dealer must disclose this fact and the broker dealer’s presumed control over the market. Finally, monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. Broker-dealers must wait two business days after providing buyers with disclosure materials regarding a security before effecting a transaction in such security. Consequently, the “penny stock” rules restrict the ability of broker dealers to sell our securities and affect the ability of investors to sell our securities in the secondary market and the price at which such purchasers can sell any such securities, thereby affecting the liquidity of the market for our common stock. Stockholders should be aware that, according to the SEC, the market for penny stocks has suffered in recent years from patterns of fraud and abuse. Such patterns include: • control of the market for the security by one or more broker-dealers that are often related to the promoter or issuer; • manipulation of prices through prearranged matching of purchases and sales and false and misleading press releases; • “boiler room” practices involving high pressure sales tactics and unrealistic price projections by inexperienced sales persons; • excessive and undisclosed bid-ask differentials and markups by selling broker-dealers; and • the wholesale dumping of the same securities by promoters and broker-dealers after prices have been manipulated to a desired level, along with the inevitable collapse of those prices with consequent investor losses. Our management is aware of the abuses that have occurred historically in the penny stock market. 76 Table of Contents The further issuances of additional authorized shares of our common stock and preferred stock may adversely affect the market for our common stock. As of November 30, 2012, there are 91,304,037 shares of common stock issued and 89,755,901 shares of common stock outstanding. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation authorizes 300 million shares of common stock with a par value $.001 per share of common stock. The amount of our authorized shares of common stock provides us with the flexibility to issue more shares in the future, which might cause dilution to our shareholders. In addition, the total number of shares of our common stock issued and outstanding does not include shares reserved in anticipation of the exercise of outstanding stock options or common stock purchase warrants. To the extent such stock options or common stock purchase warrants are exercised, the holders of our common stock may experience further dilution. Moreover, in the event that any future financing should be in the form of, be convertible into or exchangeable for, equity securities, and upon the exercise of stock options and common stock purchase warrants, investors would experience additional dilution. Finally, in addition to the above referenced shares of authorized common stock which may be issued without shareholder approval, we have 150 million authorized but undesignated shares of preferred stock, the terms of which may be fixed by our Board of Directors. We have issued preferred stock in the past, and our Board of Directors has the authority, without shareholder approval, to create and issue one or more additional series of such preferred stock and to determine the voting, dividend and other rights of holders of such preferred stock. The issuance of any of such series of preferred stock may have an adverse effect on the holders of our common stock. We have not been the subject of an independent valuation. No investment banker or underwriter has been retained to value our common stock. We have not attempted to make any estimate of the prices at which our common stock may trade in the market. Moreover, there can be no assurance given as to the market prices that will prevail. Common stock shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect the market. From time to time, certain of our shareholders may be eligible to sell some or all of their shares of our common stock by means of ordinary brokerage transactions in the open market pursuant to Rule 144, promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, subject to certain limitations. In general, pursuant to Rule 144, a shareholder (or stockholders whose shares are aggregated) who has satisfied a six-month holding period may, under certain circumstances, sell within any three month period a number of securities which does not exceed the greater of 1% of the then outstanding shares of common stock or the average weekly trading volume of the class during the four calendar weeks prior to such sale. Rule 144 also permits, under certain circumstances, the sale of securities, without any limitation, by our shareholders that are non-affiliates that have satisfied a one-year holding period. Any substantial sale of our common stock pursuant to Rule 144 or pursuant to any resale prospectus may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. The financial and operational projections that we may make from time to time are subject to inherent risks. The projections that our management may provide from time to time (including, but not limited to, those relating to potential peak sales amounts, product approval, production and supply dates, commercial launch dates, and other financial or operational matters) reflect numerous assumptions made by management, including assumptions with respect to our specific as well as general business, economic, market and financial conditions and other matters, all of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control. Accordingly, there is a risk that the assumptions made in preparing the projections, or the projections themselves, will prove inaccurate. There will be differences between actual and projected results, and actual results may be materially different from than those contained in the projections. The inclusion of the projections in (or incorporated by reference in) this Annual Report on Form 10-K should not be regarded as an indication that we or our management or representatives considered or consider the projections to be a reliable prediction of future events, and the projections should not be relied upon as such. We do not expect to pay any dividends. We have not declared or paid cash dividends since our inception. We currently intend to retain all of our earnings to finance future growth and therefore, do not expect to declare or pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. 77 Table of Contents Our tax-loss carryforwards are subject to restrictions. As of September 30, 2012, we had substantial net operating loss (“NOLs”) carry-forwards for federal income tax purposes of approximately $92.3 million (expiring beginning in 2020) which will be available to offset future taxable income. As a result of certain changes in ownership and pursuant to Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, utilization of NOLs is limited after an ownership change, as defined in Section 392, to an annual amount equal to the value of the loss corporation’s outstanding stock immediately before the date of the ownership change multiplied by the federal long-term exempt tax rate. Due to the various changes in our ownership and as a result of our Chapter 11 proceeding, a significant portion of these carry-forwards are subject to significant restrictions with respect to our ability to use those amounts to offset future taxable income. Use of our NOLs may be further limited as a result of future equity transactions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 