Risk Factors;” • failure to achieve our revenue or earnings expectations, or those of investors or analysts; • changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts; • recruitment or departure of key personnel; • investors’ general perception of us; • volatility inherent in prices of technology company stocks; • adverse publicity; • the volume of trading in our common stock, including sales upon exercise of outstanding options; • sales of shares of our common stock by existing stockholders; • regulatory developments in our target markets affecting us, our customers or our competitors; • terrorist attacks or natural disasters or other such events impacting countries where we or our customers have operations; and • actual or perceived changes in general economic, industry and market conditions. In addition, if the stock market in general experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition or results of operations. Some companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have had securities class actions filed against them. If a suit were filed against us, regardless of its merits or outcome, it would likely result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our actual results may differ significantly from any guidance that we may issue in the future. From time to time, we may release financial guidance or other forward looking statements in our earnings releases, earnings conference calls or otherwise, regarding our future performance that represent our management’s estimates as of the date of release. If given, this guidance will be based on forecasts prepared by our management. These forecasts are not prepared with a view toward compliance with published accounting guidelines, and neither our independent registered public accounting firm nor any other independent expert or outside party compiles or examines the forecasts and, accordingly, no such person expresses any opinion or any other form of assurance with respect to such forecasts. The principal reason that we may release guidance is to provide a basis for our management to discuss our business outlook with analysts and investors. We do not accept any responsibility for any projections or reports published by any such third persons. Guidance is necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that some or all of the assumptions of any future guidance furnished by us may not materialize or may vary significantly from actual future results. Concentration of ownership among our existing executive officers, directors and their affiliates may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions. Our directors and executive officers and their affiliates beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 20% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2012. As a result, these stockholders will have a 26 Table of Contents substantial influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of us or our assets. This concentration of ownership could limit the ability of other stockholders to influence corporate matters and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control over us. Anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. Our certificate of incorporation, by laws and Delaware law contain provisions that could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition deemed undesirable by our board of directors. Our corporate governance documents include provisions: • authorizing blank check preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors without stockholder approval, with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; • classifying our board of directors, staggered into three classes, only one of which is elected at each annual meeting; • limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; • limiting the ability of our stockholders to call and bring business before special meetings and to take action by written consent in lieu of a meeting; • requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; • controlling the procedures for the conduct and scheduling of stockholder meetings; • providing the board of directors with the express power to postpone previously scheduled annual meetings and to cancel previously scheduled special meetings; • limiting the determination of the number of directors on our board and the filling of vacancies or newly created seats on the board to our board of directors then in office; and • providing that directors may be removed by stockholders only for cause. These provisions, alone or together, could delay hostile takeovers and changes in control or changes in our management. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation law, which limits the ability of stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding common stock to merge or combine with us. Any provision of our certificate of incorporation, by laws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. If securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about us, our business or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding our stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If any of these analysts cease coverage of us, the trading price and trading volume of our stock could be negatively impacted. If analysts downgrade our stock or publish unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would also likely decline. 27 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 