Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business Our commercial transport business is sensitive to our customers’ usage of planes, which are, in turn, affected by general economic conditions. We compete in the aircraft component sector of the aerospace industry. Our business is directly affected by economic factors and other trends that affect our customers, including projected market growth that may not materialize or be sustainable. Specifically, our business is sensitive to the number of landings aircraft make. Historically, the aerospace industry has used ASMs as a measure which correlates to landings. In addition, our business is sensitive, to a lesser extent, to changes in the profitability of the commercial airline industry and the size and age of the worldwide aircraft fleet. ASMs and airline profitability have historically correlated with the general economic environment, although national and international events can also play a key role. In recent years, the airline industry has been severely affected by the events of September 11, 2001 and the subsequent downturn in the global economy, higher fuel prices, the SARS epidemic and the conflicts in Afghanistan and Iraq. As a result of the substantial reduction in airline traffic arising from these events, the airline industry incurred, and some in the industry continue to incur, large losses and financial difficulties. Many major carriers have also parked or retired a portion of their fleets and have reduced workforces and flights. Any future terrorist attacks could cause airlines to reduce flights, cancel or delay the purchase of replacement parts and new aircraft. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Business.” The demand for Aircraft Braking Systems’ replacement parts varies based on the number of aircraft equipped with Aircraft Braking Systems’ products and the number of landings made by those aircraft. A reduction in airline travel will usually result in reduced utilization of commercial transport, fewer landings and a corresponding decrease in Aircraft Braking Systems’ sales, related income and cash flow. During periods of reduced airline profitability, some airlines may delay purchases of replacement parts, preferring instead to deplete existing inventories. If demand for new aircraft and replacement parts decreases, there may be a decrease in demand for certain of our products. Therefore, any future decline in ASMs, and by correlation landings, airline profitability or the size of the worldwide aircraft fleet, for any reason, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Program Participation Costs negatively affect our cash flow during the earlier stages of the lifecycle of an aircraft platform. We supply original equipment in new commercial transport and general aviation aircraft at or substantially below the cost of production and provide certain manufacturers with related cash incentives pursuant to agreements typically entered into with manufacturers during the development of an aircraft platform. Because of these Program Participation Costs, development and delivery of new aircraft equipped with Aircraft Braking Systems’ products (whether on a new platform or related to additional aircraft manufactured on programs for which we are already committed) decreases our cash flow. In taking account of Program Participation Costs, our business plan budgets cash needs based on current delivery schedules of new aircraft and also accommodates certain increases in aircraft deliveries. However, K&F Industries’ credit facility contains certain limitations on our ability to provide such cash Program Participation Costs, significant and unanticipated increases in commercial transport deliveries in a given year could have a material adverse impact on our cash flow. In addition, if we do not have sufficient capital to participate in all of the new programs in which we would like to invest, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 16 We may be unable to execute our growth strategy, and our failure to do so could have a negative impact on our business. Our future success will depend on our continued growth and our ability to execute our growth strategy. Our ability to successfully execute our growth strategy is subject to a number of risks, including: • our ability to win and retain sole source contracts and expand the number of our platforms; • the health and future levels of business in the commercial transport, general aviation and military market sectors; • whether high-cycle regional jets and high-end business jets, market sectors we have chosen to focus upon, perform as we have predicted; • our ability to develop, innovate, introduce and improve our products and services while maintaining our margins and profitability; • our ability to realize cost savings from our productivity initiatives; • our ability to access available capital, whether through cash flow or borrowings, in order to fund operating expenses, potential acquisitions or other corporate purposes; • our ability to identify, acquire and integrate acquisition candidates; and • competition in our industries and general economic conditions. We may not be successful in executing our growth strategy, and even if we achieve our strategic plan, we may not operate profitably. Failure to successfully execute any material part of our growth strategy or any failure to operate profitably would significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. The U.S. government is a significant customer, the loss of which could adversely affect us. Sales to the U.S. government or to prime contractors or subcontractors of the U.S. government were approximately 25%, 23% and 26% of our total sales for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The loss of all or a substantial portion of those types of sales could materially and adversely affect us. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Business — Government Contracts.” With respect to these contracts, we bear the risk that the U.S. government may unilaterally suspend or debar us from new contracts pending the resolution of alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations. Historically, under our management, there have been no alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations and none are alleged at this time. In addition, the terms of defense contracts with the U.S. government generally permit the government to terminate contracts partially or completely, with or without cause, at any time. Any unexpected termination of a significant government contract could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our U.S. government sales are also subject to changes in the government’s procurement policies and, at times, the need to bid on programs in advance of design completion. A reduction in expenditures by the U.S. government for aircraft using our products, lower margins resulting from increasingly competitive procurement policies, a reduction in the volume of contracts or subcontracts awarded to us or substantial cost overruns could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Historically, under our management, there have been no civil or criminal enforcement or fines against us for violations of export control regulations and none are now pending. However, in December 2004, we received an inquiry from the U.S. Department of Commerce regarding our compliance with certain export control regulations in relation to a proposed foreign sale, which was never completed. Consequently, we began a comprehensive internal review of our export practices. As a result of that review we identified and voluntarily disclosed to the Office of Defense Trade Controls Compliance certain possible inadvertent export violations that were unrelated to the proposed foreign sale. Although we do not currently anticipate that the government inquiry or any consequences of the voluntary disclosure will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of 17 operations, we can not assure you as to whether we will ultimately be subject to sanctions as a result of either the inquiry or the voluntary disclosure or the extent or effect thereof, if any sanctions are imposed. A decline in the U.S. defense budget or limitations on sales to foreign governments may adversely affect our sales. The U.S. defense budget has fluctuated over the years, at times resulting in reduced demand for new aircraft and, to a lesser extent, replacement parts. In addition, foreign military sales are affected by U.S. government regulations, regulations by the purchasing foreign government and political uncertainties in the United States and abroad. The current overall Federal budget deficit may result in a decrease in the U.S. defense budget. In addition, the portion of the U.S. defense budget allocated to aircraft components, as compared to other military equipment, may decrease from time to time. The U.S. defense budget may continue to fluctuate, and may decline, and sales of defense related items to foreign governments may decrease. If there is a decline in the U.S. defense budget that reduces demand for our components or additional restrictions are imposed on foreign sales, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We could be adversely affected if one of our components causes an aircraft to crash. Our operations expose us to potential liabilities for personal injury or death as a result of the failure of an aircraft component that has been designed, manufactured or serviced by us. While we believe that our liability insurance is adequate to protect us from future product liability claims, it may not be adequate. Also, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage in the future at an acceptable cost. Any such liability not covered by insurance or for which third party indemnification is not available could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A crash caused by one of our components could also damage our reputation for quality products. We believe our customers consider safety and reliability as key criteria in selecting a provider of aircraft wheels, brakes, brake control systems and fuel tanks. If a crash were to be caused by one of our components, or if we were otherwise to fail to maintain a satisfactory record of safety and reliability, our ability to retain and attract customers may be materially adversely affected. The airline industry is heavily regulated and failure to comply with applicable laws could reduce our sales or require us to incur additional costs to achieve compliance, which could negatively impact our results of operations. The FAA prescribes standards and qualification requirements for aircraft components, including virtually all commercial transport and general aviation products, and licenses component repair stations within the United States. Comparable agencies regulate these matters in other countries. If we fail to qualify or to obtain a required license for one of our products or services or lose a qualification or license previously granted, the sale of the subject product or service would be prohibited by law until such license is obtained or renewed. In addition, designing new products to meet existing regulatory requirements and retrofitting installed products to comply with new regulatory requirements can be expensive and time consuming. From time to time the FAA or comparable agencies propose new regulations or changes to existing regulations. These new regulations or changes generally cause an increase in costs of compliance. To the extent the FAA, or comparable agencies, implement new regulations or changes in the future, we may incur significant additional costs to achieve compliance. We may not be able to pass such costs on to our customers. Any problem or interruption in our supply from key vendors could delay production and adversely affect our sales. We rely on independent suppliers for key raw materials, some of which may be available only from a limited number of sources. Our continued supply of materials is subject to a number of risks including: • the destruction of our suppliers’ facilities or their distribution infrastructures; • a work stoppage or strike by our suppliers’ employees; 18 • the failure of our suppliers to provide materials of the requisite quality; • the failure of essential equipment at our suppliers’ plants; • the failure or shortage of supply of raw materials to our suppliers; and • contractual amendments and disputes with our suppliers. In addition, contracts with certain of our suppliers for raw materials and other goods are short-term contracts. We cannot assure you that these suppliers will continue to provide products to us at attractive prices or at all, or that we will be able to obtain such products in the future from these or other providers on the scale and within the time periods we require. Failure to obtain key products on a timely basis and at an affordable cost, or significant delays or interruptions of supply, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a very competitive business environment. The aircraft component sector of the aerospace industry is highly competitive. We face substantial competition from a few suppliers in each of our product areas. Our principal competitors that supply wheels and brakes are Honeywell International’s Aircraft Landing Systems Division, Goodrich Corporation and Messier-Bugatti. In addition, we also compete with Meggitt plc’s Dunlop Aerospace Braking Systems in this arena. The principal competitors for brake control systems are Crane Co.’s Hydro-Aire Division and Messier-Bugatti. The principal competitors for flexible bladder fuel tanks are American Fuel Cell & Coated Fabrics Company and Aerazur, both owned by Zodiac S.A. Many of our competitors have greater resources than us, and therefore may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products, than we can. Providers of aircraft components have traditionally competed on the basis of cost, technology, quality and service. We believe that developing and maintaining a competitive advantage will require continued investment in product development, engineering, program investments and sales and marketing. We cannot assure you that we will have enough resources to make the necessary investments to do so and we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully in this market or against such competitors. The uncertainties relating to our foreign operations could affect our operating results. While most of our operations are based in the United States, we sell to foreign governments and airlines all over the world. As a result, approximately 40% of our consolidated sales for the past three fiscal years were from sales outside of the United States, and we believe that revenue from sales outside the United States will continue to account for a material portion of our total revenues for the foreseeable future. International operations and any foreign business expansion plans we may undertake are subject to numerous additional risks, including: • the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems; • foreign customers may pay more slowly than customers in the United States; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements or geopolitical conditions; • the risk that foreign governments may adopt regulations or take other actions that would have a direct or indirect adverse impact on our business and market opportunities; and • the potential difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in some foreign countries. As we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. However, any of these factors could adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our operating results. To the extent that we operate outside the United States, we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or “FCPA,” which generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from bribing foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment. In particular, we may be held liable for actions taken by our strategic or local partners even though such partners are foreign companies that are 19 not subject to the FCPA. Any determination that we have violated the FCPA could result in sanctions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, to the extent that we export products, technical data and services outside the United States, we are subject to U.S. laws and regulations governing international trade and exports, including but not limited to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, the Export Administration Regulations and trade sanctions against embargoed countries, which are administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control within the Department of the Treasury. A determination that we have failed to comply with one or more of these export controls could result in civil and/ or criminal sanctions, including the imposition of fines upon us as well as the denial of export privileges and debarment from participation in U.S. government contracts. Any one or more of such sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to environmental regulations and our operations may expose us to environmental liabilities. Our manufacturing operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, including those related to soil and groundwater contamination, air emissions and the protection of human health and the environment, administered by federal, state and local agencies. We regularly assess our obligations and compliance with respect to these requirements. Based upon these assessments and other available information, we believe that our manufacturing facilities are in substantial compliance with all applicable existing federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations and we do not expect environmental costs to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The operation of manufacturing plants entails risk in these areas, and there can be no assurance that we will not incur material costs or liabilities in the future that could adversely affect us. For example, such costs or liabilities could arise due to changes in the existing law or its interpretation. The Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company, the parent of a former owner and operator of our Akron, Ohio facility, is and has been conducting remediation of groundwater contamination there that is believed to have been released during the operations of a former subsidiary of Goodyear. Although we could be held liable as the current operator of this site, no one has alleged that we caused the groundwater contamination or that we should be held responsible for its cleanup, and Goodyear has paid all costs to date pursuant to contractual indemnities. There can be no assurance however, that we will not incur material costs in connection with contamination resulting from former industrial operations at our Ohio and Georgia facilities. K&F Industries has purchased an environmental contamination insurance policy intended to cover liability for third party claims seeking damages related to cleanup costs or personal injuries arising from contamination existing at our Ohio and Georgia facilities on or before November 18, 2004. The policy is subject to deductibles and has other limitations, including an aggregate policy limit of $50 million. Although we believe that the policy is adequate to cover potential contamination liabilities at these sites, there can be no assurance that we will in fact be able to recover any contamination-related costs under the policy or that the policy will be sufficient to cover any such liabilities that we may incur. We have been included, and may in the future be included, in claims against prior owners of our facilities relating to asbestos exposure. The owners of the aircraft braking system production assets prior to 1987, that we now operate in Akron, installed brake pads containing asbestos in certain of their products. As a result, from time to time, we have been named, along with other defendants, in a relatively small number of products liability cases and employee exposure lawsuits alleging that we are responsible, as a corporate successor or otherwise, for the asbestos exposure liabilities of the previous owners. To date, there has been no finding adverse to us in any such litigation, and we believe that we have defenses to the allegations of successor liability and other theories of liability, as well as rights to contribution and indemnity from others. Products Liability. Since 1993, we have been named in products liability lawsuits brought by approximately 175 non-employee plaintiffs alleging personal injury from exposure to asbestos. To date in connection with these lawsuits, we have sought and, other than with respect to two immaterial cases filed in 2003 and 2004, received defense and indemnity from Goodyear, which produced aircraft braking systems equipped with asbestos-containing 20 brake linings between approximately 1940 and 1985 at the Akron, Ohio facility now operated by Aircraft Braking Systems. Goodyear has been named as a defendant in all of these claims. In addition, most of the products liability claims also name Loral Corporation (now part of Lockheed Martin Corporation), from whom we bought the aircraft braking system production assets in 1989. To date, we have incurred only administrative costs in connection with these claims. Employee Exposure. In 2003, we participated with Lockheed Martin Corporation in the resolution of numerous worker-related claims, including 157 claims made against us, for an aggregate cost to us of $120,000. There are currently no further employee asbestos exposure claims pending against us. Accordingly, the costs we have expended to date in connection with asbestos exposure claims have not had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. However, we cannot predict the extent to which we may be involved in any such claims in the future or whether defense and indemnity for such claims will be available. As noted above, Goodyear has defended and resolved the products claims for us to date, but Goodyear has recently reserved its rights to dispute whether such defense and indemnification are required in all cases and has also declined to provide a defense and indemnity with respect to two immaterial cases filed in 2003 and 2004. We also obtained limited indemnification regarding these and other issues, upon the terms and conditions of the purchase agreement, from the prior stockholders of K&F Industries in connection with the Acquisition. We cannot assure you that these defense and indemnity arrangements will be available or sufficient to satisfy any claims or losses we suffer as a result of these or other issues. If the indemnifications are not available or sufficient, and if we are found to be responsible for these exposures, resulting liabilities could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness Our substantial debt may adversely affect our financial condition and operations. We have substantial debt and substantial debt service obligations. At December 31, 2005, we had $766.6 million of outstanding consolidated indebtedness, excluding unused commitments under the K&F Industries’ revolving credit facility. We had $48.3 million of available borrowing capacity under the K&F Industries’ revolving credit facility at December 31, 2005. In the future, we may borrow more money, subject to the limitations imposed on us by the agreements governing our indebtedness. Our level of indebtedness has important consequences, including: • requiring us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • subjecting us to the risk of interest rate increases on our indebtedness with variable interest rates; • subjecting us to the possibility of an event of default under the financial and operating covenants contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness; and • limiting our ability to adjust to rapidly changing market conditions, reducing our ability to withstand competitive pressures and making us more vulnerable to a downturn in general economic conditions than our competitors with less debt. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash and our inability to generate sufficient cash flow may require us to seek additional or replacement financing. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may be required to refinance all or a portion of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or raise capital through sales of our equity securities. If these or other kinds of additional financing become necessary, we cannot assure you that we could arrange such financing on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. 21 We are subject to restrictive debt covenants, which may restrict our operational flexibility. The K&F Industries’ revolving credit facility and the indenture governing K&F Industries’ 73/4% senior subordinated notes due 2014 contain a number of covenants imposing significant restrictions on K&F Industries and its restricted subsidiaries. These restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. The restrictions these covenants place on K&F Industries and its restricted subsidiaries include limitations on their ability to: • incur indebtedness or issue disqualified stock or preferred stock; • pay dividends or make other distributions on, redeem or repurchase their capital stock; • incur Program Participation Costs; • make investments or acquisitions; • create liens; • sell assets; • engage in sale and lease back transactions; • restrict dividends or other payments to K&F; • guarantee indebtedness; • engage in transactions with affiliates; and • consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of their assets. Although these limitations only apply to K&F Industries and its restricted subsidiaries, they could have a significant impact on K&F as well. The credit facility also restricts K&F Industries’ ability to make capital expenditures or prepay certain other debt and requires K&F Industries to maintain a consolidated cash interest coverage ratio and consolidated leverage ratio, at levels specified in the credit agreement which become more restrictive over time. As of December 31, 2005, we were in compliance with all covenants. At December 31, 2005, our actual consolidated cash interest cover ratio was 2.40 to 1 versus 1.65 to 1, as required by the credit agreement, and our actual consolidated leverage ratio was 5.98 to 1 versus 7.75 to 1, as required by the credit agreement. K&F Industries may not be able to maintain these ratios. These restrictions could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet our capital needs. There can be no assurance that K&F Industries will be granted waivers or amendments to the credit facility if for any reason it is unable to meet its requirements, or that we will be able to refinance our debt on terms acceptable to us, or at all. The breach of any of these covenants or restrictions could result in a default under the indenture governing K&F Industries’ 73/4% senior subordinated notes due 2014 and K&F Industries’ credit facility. An event of default under either the indenture or the revolving credit facility would permit some of our lenders to declare all amounts borrowed from them to be due and payable. An event of default under either the indenture or the credit facility would likely result in a cross default under the other instrument. If we are unable to repay debt, lenders having secured obligations could proceed against the collateral securing that debt. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 