Item 1A. Risk Factors References to “us,” “we” and “our” refer to the Company. The following risk factors could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us may also negatively impact us. If we fail to offer merchandise and services that our customers want, our sales may be limited, which would reduce our revenues and profits. In order for our business to be successful, we must identify, obtain supplies of, and offer to our customers, attractive, innovative and high-quality merchandise on a continuous basis. Our products and services must satisfy the desires of our customers, whose preferences may change in the future. If we misjudge either the demand for products and services we sell or our customers’ purchasing habits and tastes, we may be faced with excess inventories of some products and missed opportunities for products and services we chose not to offer. In addition, our sales may decline or we may be required to sell the merchandise we have obtained at lower prices. This would have a negative effect on our business and results of operations. If we do not successfully manage our inventory levels, our operating results will be adversely affected. We must maintain sufficient inventory levels to operate our business successfully. However, we also must guard against accumulating excess inventory as we seek to minimize out-of-stock levels across all product categories and to maintain in-stock levels. We obtain a significant portion of our inventory from vendors located outside the United States. These vendors often require lengthy advance notice of our requirements in order to be able to supply products in the quantities we request. This usually requires us to order merchandise, and enter into purchase order contracts for the purchase and manufacture of such merchandise, well in advance of the time these products will be offered for sale. As a result, we may experience difficulty in responding to a changing retail environment, which makes us vulnerable to changes in price. If we do not accurately anticipate the future 7 demand for a particular product or the time it will take to obtain new inventory, our inventory levels will not be appropriate and our results of operations may be negatively impacted. If we are unable to compete effectively in the highly competitive retail industry, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The retail industry is highly competitive with few barriers to entry. We compete with a wide variety of retailers including other department stores, discounters, home improvement stores, consumer electronics dealers and auto service providers, specialty retailers, wholesale clubs and many other competitors operating on a national, regional or local level. Some of our competitors are actively engaged in new store expansion. Internet and catalog businesses, which handle similar lines of merchandise, also compete with us. In this competitive marketplace, success is based on factors such as price, product assortment and quality, service and convenience. Our success depends on our ability to differentiate ourselves from our competitors with respect to shopping convenience, a quality assortment of available merchandise and superior customer service. We must also successfully respond to our customers’ changing tastes. The performance of our competitors, as well as changes in their pricing policies, marketing activities, new store openings and other business strategies, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Due to the seasonality of our business, our annual operating results would be adversely affected if our business performs poorly in the fourth quarter. Our business is seasonal, with a high proportion of revenues and operating cash flows being generated during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year, which includes the holiday season. As a result, our fourth quarter operating results significantly impact our annual operating results. Our fourth quarter operating results may fluctuate significantly, based on many factors, including holiday spending patterns and weather conditions. Our sales may fluctuate for a variety of reasons, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our business is sensitive to customers’ spending patterns, which in turn are subject to prevailing economic conditions. Our sales and results of operations have fluctuated in the past, and we expect them to continue to fluctuate in the future. A variety of other factors affect our sales and financial performance, including: • actions by our competitors, including opening of new stores in our existing markets or changes to the way these competitors go to market on-line, • seasonal fluctuations due to weather conditions, • changes in our merchandise strategy and mix, • changes in population and other demographics, and • timing of our promotional events. Accordingly, our results for any one fiscal quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for any other quarter, and comparable store sales for any particular future period may increase or decrease. For more information on our results of operations, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 of this Form 10-K. 8 We rely on foreign sources for significant amounts of our merchandise, and our business may therefore be negatively affected by the risks associated with international trade. We depend on a large number of products produced in foreign markets. We face risks associated with the delivery of merchandise originating outside the United States, including: • potential economic and political instability in countries where our suppliers are located, • increases in shipping costs, • transportation delays and interruptions, • adverse fluctuations in currency exchange rates, and • changes in U.S. and foreign laws affecting the importation and taxation of goods, including duties, tariffs and quotas, or changes in the enforcement of those laws. Decline in general economic conditions, consumer-spending levels and other conditions could lead to reduced consumer demand for our merchandise thereby reducing our revenues and gross margins. Many economic and other factors outside our control, including consumer confidence, consumer spending levels, employment levels, prevailing interest rates, housing sales and remodels, consumer debt levels and inflation, as well as fuel costs and the availability of consumer credit, affect consumer-spending habits. In addition, disposable income levels may influence consumer-purchasing patterns. A general slowdown in the United States economy or an uncertain economic outlook could adversely affect consumer spending habits and our operating results. The domestic and international political situation also affects consumer confidence. The threat, outbreak or escalation of terrorism, military conflicts or other hostilities could lead to a decrease in consumer spending. Any of these events and factors could cause us to increase inventory markdowns and promotional expenses, thereby reducing our gross margins and operating results. We rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business. Disruptions in these systems could harm our ability to run our business. Given the number of individual transactions we have each year, it is critical that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications hardware and software systems. Our systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, including breaches of our transaction processing or other systems that result in the compromise of confidential customer data, catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our employees. If our systems are breached, damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to fix or replace them, we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim, we may face costly litigation, and our reputation with our customers may be harmed. Any material interruption in our computer operations may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. In addition, we are pursuing complex initiatives to transform our information technology processes and systems, which will include, for many systems, establishing a common platform across our lines of business, such as common human resources, supply chain and financial systems. The risk of disruption is increased in periods where such complex and significant systems changes are undertaken. Also, if we fail to successfully combine our systems, we may fail to realize cost savings anticipated to be derived from these initiatives. We rely on third parties to provide us with services in connection with the administration of certain aspects of our business. From time to time we have entered into agreements with third-party service providers (both domestic and overseas) to provide processing and administrative functions over a broad range of areas, and we may continue to do so in the future. These areas include finance and accounting, call center, human resources and procurement 9 functions. There can be no assurance that transition of the functions to third party service providers will be successful. Services provided by third parties as a part of outsourcing initiatives could be interrupted as a result of many factors, such as acts of God or contract disputes, and any failure by third-parties to provide us with these services on a timely basis or within our service level expectations and performance standards could result in a disruption of our business. In addition, to the extent we are unable to maintain our outsourcing arrangements, we would incur substantial costs, including costs associated with hiring new employees, in order to return these services in-house. We might not realize the benefits we are seeking from our new organizational structure. Our new organizational structure is being built on five types of businesses: operating businesses; support businesses (e.g., finance, marketing); on-line businesses; real estate businesses, and brand businesses. If this new organizational structure results in ineffective collaboration among our employees, then our operating results may be harmed. Additionally, while these changes are designed to provide greater empowerment and accountability to employees and to enable us to continue to be more effective and efficient in meeting the needs of our customers, operating in this environment could affect employee morale and retention. The loss of key personnel may disrupt our business and adversely affect our financial results. We depend on the contributions of key personnel, including Edward S. Lampert (chairman) and other key employees, for our future success. Although certain executives have employment agreements with us, changes in our senior management and any future departures of key employees may disrupt our business and materially adversely affect our results of operations. Affiliates of our Chairman, whose interests may be different than your interests, exert substantial influence over our Company. Affiliates of Edward S. Lampert, the Chairman of our Board of Directors, beneficially own 49.6% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. These affiliates are controlled, directly or indirectly, by Mr. Lampert. Accordingly, these affiliates, and thus Mr. Lampert, have substantial influence over many if not all actions to be taken or approved by our stockholders, including the election of directors and any transactions involving a change of control. The interests of these affiliates, which have investments in other companies, may from time to time diverge from the interests of our other stockholders, particularly with regard to new investment opportunities. This substantial influence may have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire our Company because the consummation of any such acquisition would likely require the consent of these affiliates. We may be subject to product liability claims if people or properties are harmed by the products we sell or the services we offer. Some of the products we sell may expose us to product liability claims relating to personal injury, death, or property damage caused by such products, and may require us to take actions such as product recalls. We also provide various services, which could also give rise to such claims. Although we maintain liability insurance, we cannot be certain that our coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred or that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all. We may be subject to periodic litigation and other regulatory proceedings. These proceedings may be affected by changes in laws and government regulations or changes in the enforcement thereof. From time to time, we may be involved in lawsuits and regulatory actions relating to our business, certain of which may be in jurisdictions with reputations for aggressive application of laws and procedures against corporate defendants. We are impacted by trends in litigation, including class-action allegations brought under 10 various consumer protection and employment laws, including wage and hour laws. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. An unfavorable outcome could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, regardless of the outcome of any litigation or regulatory proceedings, these proceedings could result in substantial costs and may require that we devote substantial resources to defend our Company. Further, changes in governmental regulations both in the United States and in the other countries where we operate could have adverse effects on our business and subject us to additional regulatory actions. For a description of current legal proceedings, see Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” in this Form 10-K. Our failure to successfully invest available surplus cash could negatively affect our performance Our performance with respect to the investment of surplus cash is substantially dependent on the performance of Edward S. Lampert, to whom our Board of Directors has delegated authority to direct such investments, subject to certain limitations. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to identify investment opportunities that meet our requirements. Any such investments may include significant and highly concentrated direct investments, related derivative positions, or both, with respect to the equity securities of public companies. In addition, any such investments will involve risks, and Holdings’ balance sheet and results of operations may fluctuate, depending on the extent of excess funds and the timing, magnitude and performance of our investments. Furthermore, such investments would be subject to volatility due to market conditions and other conditions over which we may not have control, which may affect both the recorded value of the investments as well as our periodic earnings. Accordingly, the poor performance of a significant investment could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 11 