Risk Factors Related to Our Operations The failure to attract and retain skilled personnel could impair our product development and commercialization efforts. Our performance is substantially dependent on the performance of our senior management and key scientific and technical personnel, particularly Francis E. O’Donnell, Jr., M.D., our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman, Martin G. Baum, our President and Chief Operating Officer, Specialty Pharmaceuticals, Steven R. Arikian, M.D., our President and Chief Operating Officer, Biopharmaceutical Products and Services, and Alan M. Pearce, our Chief Financial Officer. We have entered into employment agreements with each of Messrs. O’Donnell, Baum, Arikian, and Pearce, although there is no assurance that they will remain in our employ for the entire term of such employment agreements. The loss of the services of any member of our senior management, scientific, or technical staff may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of product development and other business objectives by diverting management’s attention to transition matters and identification of suitable replacements, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. We do not maintain key man life insurance for any of Messrs. O’Donnell, Baum, Arikian, or Pearce. We are not aware of any plans by our key personnel to retire or leave us in the near future. We also rely on consultants and advisors to assist us in formulating our research and development strategy. All of our consultants and advisors are either self-employed or employed by other organizations, and they may have conflicts of interest or other commitments, such as consulting or advisory contracts with other organizations, that may affect their ability to contribute to us. In addition, we believe that we will need to recruit additional executive management and scientific and technical personnel. There is currently intense competition for skilled executives and employees with relevant scientific and technical expertise, and this competition is likely to continue. The inability to attract and retain sufficient scientific, technical, and managerial personnel could limit or delay our product development efforts, which would adversely affect the development of our product candidates and commercialization of our potential products and growth of our business. We expect to expand our development, clinical research, and marketing capabilities, and as a result, we may encounter difficulties in managing our growth, which could disrupt our operations. We expect to have significant growth in expenditures, the number of our employees and the scope of our operations, in particular with respect to those product candidates that we elect to commercialize independently or together with a partner. To manage our anticipated future growth, we must continue to implement and improve our managerial, operational, and financial systems, expand our facilities, and 53 Table of Contents continue to recruit and train additional qualified personnel. Due to our limited resources, we may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations or recruit and train additional qualified personnel. The physical expansion of our operations may lead to significant costs and may divert our management and business development resources. Any inability to manage growth could delay the execution of our business plans or disrupt our operations. We have a limited operating history and financial results are uncertain. We have a limited history as a consolidated company and face many of the risks of a new business. As a result of our limited operating history, it is difficult to accurately forecast our potential revenue. Our revenue and income potential is unproven and our business model is still emerging. Therefore, we cannot assure you that we will provide a return on investment in the future. An investor in our common stock must consider the challenges, risks, and uncertainties frequently encountered in the establishment of new technologies and products in emerging markets and evolving industries. These challenges include our ability to: • execute our business model; • create brand recognition; • manage growth in our operations; • create a customer base cost-effectively; • retain customers; • access additional capital when required; and • attract and retain key personnel. We cannot be certain that our business model will be successful or that it will successfully address these and other challenges, risks, and uncertainties. Our relationship with BioDelivery Sciences and the relationship of several of our senior executive officers to BioDelivery Sciences creates potential for conflicts of interest. Our company and several of our executive officers have relationships with BioDelivery Sciences International, Inc., or BioDelivery Sciences, a publicly traded drug delivery technology company, which may create conflicts of interest. The encochleated version of our SinuNase product is being developed under a license agreement with BioDelivery Sciences under which we have been granted exclusive worldwide rights to BioDelivery Sciences’ encochleation technology for CRS and asthma products. Additionally, Emezine is being jointly developed with Arius Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or Arius, a wholly owned subsidiary of BioDelivery Sciences, under a distribution agreement that we entered into with Arius in March 2004. Francis E. O’Donnell, Jr., M.D. is a principal stockholder and Chairman of the Board of both our company and BioDelivery Sciences. Previously, Dr. O’Donnell also served as the President and Chief Executive Officer of BioDelivery Sciences. Alan Pearce, our Chief Financial Officer, served as a director for BioDelivery Sciences until September 2005. Also, four of our employees are shared between BioDelivery Sciences and our company. Our directors and executive officers owe a fiduciary duty of loyalty to us, and to the extent that they are also directors or officers of BioDelivery Sciences, they also owe similar fiduciary duties to BioDelivery Sciences. However, due to their responsibilities to serve both companies, there is potential for conflicts of interest. At any particular time, the needs of BioDelivery Sciences could cause one or more of these executive officers to devote attention to BioDelivery Sciences at the expense of our company. In addition, matters may arise that place the fiduciary duties of these individuals in conflicting positions. Such conflicts will be resolved by our independent directors and directors having no affiliation with BioDelivery Sciences. If conflicts occur, matters important to us could be delayed. The results of such delays are not susceptible to accurate predictions but could include, among other things, delay in the production of sufficient amounts of SinuNase to complete our clinical trials or to meet potential commercial demands. Such delays could increase our costs of development or reduce our ability to generate revenue. Our officers will use every effort to avoid material conflicts of interest generated by their responsibilities to BioDelivery Sciences, but no assurance can be given that material conflicts will not arise which could be detrimental to our operations and financial prospects. 54 Table of Contents The existence of minority stockholders in our Biovest subsidiary creates potential for conflicts of interest. We directly own 81% of the outstanding capital stock of Biovest International, Inc., or Biovest, our subsidiary that is developing the BiovaxID vaccine, and the remaining 19% of Biovest stock is owned by approximately 500 stockholders of record. As a result, conflicts of interest may develop between us and the minority stockholders of Biovest. To the extent that our officers and directors are also officers or directors of Biovest, matters may arise that place the fiduciary duties of these individuals in conflicting positions. Although we intend that such conflicts will be resolved by independent directors of Biovest, if this occurs, matters important to us could be delayed. Francis E. O’Donnell, Jr., M.D., our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, is also Vice Chairman and a director of Biovest, and Dr. Steven Arikian, a director and our President and Chief Operating Officer, Biopharmaceutical Products and Services, is the Chairman, CEO, and President of Biovest. Also, Martin G. Baum, our President and Chief Operating Officer, Specialty Pharmaceuticals, is a director of Biovest. Some of the minority stockholders of our Biovest subsidiary have indicated that they believe that they have a claim against Biovest and/or our company in connection with the investment agreement between us and Biovest. We acquired our 81% interest in Biovest pursuant to a June 2003 investment agreement with Biovest. The investment agreement with Biovest provides that, within 12 months of the date of our investment in Biovest, Biovest was required to file all necessary documents and take all necessary actions to permit the public trading of all outstanding shares of Biovest common stock that are not subject to restriction on sale or transfer under the applicable securities laws. Since August 2005, Biovest’s common stock has been quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board under the symbol BVTI.OB. Although Biovest common stock was not quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board prior to August 2005, Biovest believes that, by filing all reports required to be filed by it under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 at all times since the date of the investment agreement, it timely filed all required documents and reports and timely took all action within its control necessary to permit such stock to trade publicly during the 12-month period following our investment in Biovest. Prior to the commencement of the quotation of Biovest’s common stock on the OTC Bulletin Board, an attorney representing a group of approximately 13 Biovest shareholders orally communicated to us that such shareholders believe that they have a claim against Biovest and/or our company as a result of the fact that Biovest common stock had not yet started trading publicly and no repurchase offer for Biovest stock had yet made under the investment agreement between Biovest and our company. To date, Biovest has not received any written notice of such claims, and no further oral communications regarding these claims have been received subsequent to the date on which Biovest’s common stock began being quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. We believe that any such claim, if formally asserted, would probably be based on the investment agreement. We currently cannot predict whether these Biovest shareholders will file any action against Biovest and/or our company, and if such an action is filed, we cannot predict what the timing and precise nature of their claims will be. Under the Biovest investment agreement, should it be determined that Biovest should have filed additional documents or taken additional action to permit the trading of its shares, Biovest would, upon 90 days’ written notice with a right to cure, be obligated to make an offer to purchase the following number of shares of its outstanding stock (other than stock held by us) as of each of the following dates, provided that Biovest common stock had not started trading by then: 980,000 shares at the first anniversary of the date of our investment in Biovest, 1,960,000 shares at the second anniversary, 2,940,000 shares at the third anniversary of the investment, and 3,920,000 shares at the fourth anniversary, with each such repurchase being at a price of $2.00 per share. If these Biovest shareholders file a claim against us and/or Biovest and we do not prevail in the matter, we may be required to undertake a repurchase offer or otherwise pay monetary damages, in which case our operating results, financial position, and cash flows could be adversely impacted. Even if we prevail in the matter, we may be required to expend significant amounts in defending against the action, and such expenditures could adversely impact our financial position and cash flows. 55 Table of Contents We occasionally become subject to commercial disputes that could harm our business by distracting our management from the operation of our business, by increasing our expenses and, if we do not prevail, by subjecting us to potential monetary damages and other remedies. From time to time we are engaged in disputes regarding our commercial transactions. These disputes could result in monetary damages or other remedies that could adversely impact our financial position or operations. Even if we prevail in these disputes, they may distract our management from operating our business and the cost of defending these disputes would reduce our operating results. We are currently a party to the disputes described in Item 3 of this Form 10-K under the caption “LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.” If we do not prevail in these litigation matters or if we are required to expend a significant amount of resources defending such claims, our operating results, financial position, and cash flows could be adversely impacted. Two of our customers generates a large portion of our revenue, and any reduction, delay, or cancellation of orders from these customers could reduce our revenues. For the 2005 and 2004 fiscal years, two of our customers, both wholesale distributors, accounted for more than 10% of our revenue. Revenues from Cardinal Health represented approximately 25.0% and 15.3% of our revenue for the years ended September 30, 2005 and 2004, respectively, and revenues from McKesson Corporation represented approximately 14.6% of our revenue for the year ended September 30, 2004. Any reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from this customer could reduce our revenue. Our level of indebtedness reduces our financial flexibility and could impede our ability to operate. As of December 20, 2005, our long-term debt was $13.9 million. Our long-term debt includes the following: • $11.9 million in principal amount outstanding under our credit facility with Laurus, consisting of a term loan in the amount of $9.7 million and a revolving credit line in the amount of $2.2 million (which replaced an existing credit line); A portion of this credit facility is convertible into common stock as discussed under “MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS” • $4.7 million in principal and interest as of December 20, 2005 under a loan from Harbinger Mezzanine Partners, LP (net of a debt discount relating to warrants issued in connection with the loan); and • $0.8 million in principal and interest as of December 20, 2005 under convertible promissory notes issued by our Biovest subsidiary after conversion to stock in November and December, 2005. • $4.2 million in principal amount outstanding under our bridge note with Hopkins Capital II, LLC. Under the $10.0 million term note with Laurus, assuming that Laurus does not convert the note, we are obligated to make equal monthly payments of principal and interest of $0.3 million each through the period ending in April 2008. Under the notes evidencing the revolving credit loan portion of our credit facility with Laurus, the $4.7 million principal amount will be due and payable in April 2008, with accrued interest being payable monthly. The entire principal amount of the Harbinger loan will become due in June 2006 (with $2.0 million becoming due within 30 days of the completion of our initial public offering). The $0.8 million in principal and interest under the notes issued by Biovest will become due on various dates during 2006 and 2007. The $4.2 million bridge note issued to The Hopkins Capital Group II, LLC will become due on the earlier of August 16, 2007 or the completion by our company of a debt or equity financing that results in more that $35.0 million in proceeds (net of underwriting discounts, commissions, or placement agent fees). Our level of debt affects our operations in several important ways, including the following: • a significant portion of our cash flow from operations is likely to be dedicated to the payment of the principal of and interest on our indebtedness; • our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures or acquisitions may be limited; • we may be unable to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us or at all; • our cash flow may be insufficient to meet our required principal and interest payments; and we may default on our obligations and the lenders may foreclose on their security interests that secure their loans. 56 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile, and your investment in our stock could decline in value. The market prices for securities of biotechnology companies in general have been highly volatile and may continue to be highly volatile in the future. The following factors, in addition to other risk factors described in this section, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock: • results from and any delays in the clinical trials programs; • failure or delays in entering additional product candidates into clinical trials; • failure or discontinuation of any of our research programs; • delays in establishing new strategic relationships; • delays in the development of our product candidates and commercialization of our potential products; • market conditions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors and issuance of new or changed securities analysts’ reports or recommendations; • actual and anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly financial and operating results; • developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or other proprietary rights; • introduction of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors; • issues in manufacturing our product candidates or products; • market acceptance of our products; • third-party healthcare reimbursement policies; • FDA or other United States or foreign regulatory actions affecting us or our industry; • litigation or public concern about the safety of our product candidates or products; and • additions or departures of key personnel. These and other external factors may cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock. In addition, in the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. Such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management. If the ownership of our common stock continues to be highly concentrated, it may prevent you and other stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions and may result in entrenchment of management or conflicts of interest that could cause our stock price to decline. As of December 20, 2005, our executive officers, directors, and their affiliates beneficially own or control approximately 26% of the outstanding shares of our common stock (after giving effect to the conversion of all outstanding convertible preferred stock and the exercise of all outstanding vested and unvested options and warrants). Accordingly, these executive officers, directors, and their affiliates, acting as a group, will have substantial influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, 57 Table of Contents including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets or any other significant corporate transactions. These stockholders may also delay or prevent a change of control of our company, even if such a change of control would benefit our other stockholders. The significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock due to investors’ perception that entrenchment of management or conflicts of interest may exist or arise. A significant portion of our total outstanding shares are restricted from immediate resale but may be sold into the market in the near future. This could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. These sales, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock. We have outstanding 29,121,951 shares of common stock as of December 1, 2005. The shares that were sold in our IPO may be resold in the public market immediately, and 25,623,325 shares that are currently restricted as a result of securities laws or lock-up agreements will be able to be sold in the near future as set forth below. Number of Shares and % of Total Outstanding After Offering Date Available for Sale Into Public Market 24,138,245 shares, or 84% On April 25, 2006, which is 181 days after the date of our initial public offering due to the lock-up agreements between the holders of these shares and the underwriters, provided that this lock-up period is subject to extension for up to 17 days under specified circumstances. However, the underwriters can waive the provisions of these lock-up agreements and allow these stockholders to sell their shares at any time. Sales of these shares by “affiliates” and sales of these shares by non-”affiliates” who have held such shares for less than 2 years are subject to the volume limitations, manner of sale provisions, and public information requirements of Rule 144. 1,485,080 shares, or 5% Between 182 and 365 days after the date of our initial public offering, depending on the requirements of the federal securities laws. Sales of these shares by “affiliates” and sales of these shares by non-“affiliates” who have held such shares for less than 2 years are subject to the volume limitations, manner of sale provisions, and public information requirements of Rule 144. In addition to the foregoing, we had options to purchase 1,226,767 shares of common stock outstanding and exercisable as of December 1, 2005, after the automatic conversion of preferred stock options into common stock options upon the closing of the IPO. We intend to register the shares of common stock issuable or reserved for issuance under our equity plans within 180 days after the date of closing of the IPO. Up to 2,166,723 shares of our common stock will become issuable to Laurus Master Fund, Ltd. upon the conversion of convertible notes issued to Laurus in connection with our credit facility with Laurus (excluding the conversion of accrued interest), and up to 1,277,778 shares are or will become issuable to Laurus under warrants granted to Laurus under this credit facility. 58 Table of Contents Evolving regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses and continuing uncertainty. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations, and Nasdaq National Market rules are creating uncertainty for public companies. As a result of these new rules, we will incur additional costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. In addition, these new rules could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and this could make it difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors. We are presently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to new and proposed rules and cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. These new or changed laws, regulations, and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations, and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations, and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and we may be harmed. We have limited experience attempting to comply with public company obligations, including Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the SEC has adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company’s internal controls over financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 10-K. In addition, the public accounting firm auditing a public company’s financial statements must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting. This requirement will first apply to our annual report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ending September 30, 2007. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting, or if our independent auditors are unable to provide us with an unqualified report as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of September 30, 2007 and future year ends as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our securities. We have never paid dividends on our common stock, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have paid no cash dividends on our common stock to date. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our businesses, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our capital stock for the foreseeable future. In addition, the terms of existing or any future debts may preclude us from paying dividends on our stock. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. Some provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation, bylaws, and Florida law may inhibit potential acquisition bids that you may consider favorable. Our corporate documents contain provisions that may enable our board of directors to resist a change in control of our company even if a change in control were to be considered favorable by you and other stockholders. These provisions include: • the authorization of undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval; • advance notice procedures required for stockholders to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring matters before an annual meeting of stockholders; • limitations on persons authorized to call a special meeting of stockholders; • a staggered board of directors; 59 Table of Contents • a requirement that vacancies in directorships are to be filled by a majority of directors then in office and the number of directors is to be fixed by the board of directors; and • no cumulative voting. These and other provisions contained in our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws could delay or discourage transactions involving an actual or potential change in control of us or our management, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current prices, and may limit the ability of stockholders to remove our current management or approve transactions that our stockholders may deem to be in their best interests and, therefore, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. In addition, we are subject to control share acquisitions provisions and affiliated transaction provisions of the Florida Business Corporation Act, the applications of which may have the effect of delaying or preventing a merger, takeover or other change of control of us and therefore could discourage attempts to acquire our company. 