ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSWe describe our business risk factors below. You should carefully consider the risks described below together with the other information set forth in this Form 10-K, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our company. Risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or results of operations.Risks Related to Our Business, Financial Condition and Results of OperationsWe have a limited operating history, which makes it difficult for investors to evaluate our current business and future prospects.We do not have a long history of operating results on which you can base your evaluation of our business. We are still proving our business model, and we have not yet demonstrated our ability to generate significant revenue, particularly licensing and royalty revenue (which represented 24%, 27% and 19% of total revenue in fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively). As a result, it may be difficult for analysts and investors to evaluate our future prospects. If we do not generate significant licensing and royalty revenue, we may never achieve sustained profitability. Furthermore, because of our limited operating history and because the semiconductor and clean energy industries are rapidly evolving, we have limited experience in analyzing and understanding the trends that may emerge and affect our business. If we are unable to obtain significant licensing and royalty revenue from products that incorporate technology developed through our collaborative development programs (CDPs), our financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected.Our operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter, which may make it difficult to predict our future performance. Our revenue, expenses and operating results have fluctuated, and may in the future continue to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. Factors that may contribute to these fluctuations include the following, as well as other factors described elsewhere in this Form 10-K:▪our dependence on a limited number of customers;▪the length of our sales and development cycles for CDPs, which makes it difficult to predict the timing of new or expanded CDPs, as well as the timeframe in which technology developed under CDPs will be available for commercialization;▪fluctuations in the volume and prices of products manufactured and sold by our customers that generate royalty revenue for us;▪our revenue mix, which may vary from quarter to quarter as we enter into new CDPs and related customer arrangements, existing CDPs are completed, extended or expanded and licensing arrangements take effect;▪the highly cyclical nature of and price volatility in the semiconductor industry;▪the financial stability of any of our customers (including but not limited to the impact of our customer Elpida's filing for protection under the Corporate Reorganization Act in Japan in February 2012);▪the timing and extent to which we enter into new CDPs or complete, extend or expand existing CDPs;▪one-time offsets to revenue associated with the vesting of contingent warrants issued to two of our customers that are currently outstanding;▪non-cash charges relating to stock-based compensation, amortization of intangible assets and impairment expenses related to inventory and long-lived assets; ▪any involvement in significant litigation, and in particular intellectual property litigation;▪any payments resulting from our intellectual property indemnification policies and obligations;22Table of Contents•our potential need for additional capital to finance our business;•any delay in shipments caused by shortages of components incorporated in our customers' products, design errors or other manufacturing problems associated with our customers' products;•warranty claims, product recalls and product liability for our HPC tools and for our customers' products that incorporate technology developed through our CDPs; and•business interruptions such as earthquakes and other natural disasters.You should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons to predict our future performance. Unfavorable changes in any of these or other factors may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have incurred operating losses since our inception and may not be able to achieve or maintain sustained profitability.We have generated net losses each year since our inception, including $0.8 million, $30.0 million and $1.8 million for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Our accumulated deficit as of December 31, 2012 was $101.3 million. We will need to significantly increase revenue and operating margins to achieve profitability, which we may not be able to accomplish. Our ability to achieve and maintain profitability will depend, in large part, on our success in addressing the following four challenges, as well as in other risk factors in this Item 1A:(1)We may be unable to achieve broad customer acceptance of our HPC platform and approach as an alternative to conventional research and development activities.Historically, semiconductor companies have conducted R&D activities internally using conventional research methods, and they have vigorously protected the confidentiality of their R&D activities. In order for us to increase revenue, we must convince these companies that our technology and capabilities justify collaborating with us on their basic R&D programs. A significant cultural transition is required for a customer's internal R&D team to embrace us as a collaborative partner. This contributes to the long sales cycles we experience, and may require us to make significant investments in the expansion of our sales and marketing efforts. We must also convince potential customers in the clean energy industry that our HPC platform and approach are useful tools in an emerging industry. We cannot assure you we will achieve the levels of customer acceptance necessary for us to maintain and grow a profitable business. Failure to achieve the necessary customer acceptance to extend or add current or new customer relationships would adversely affect our revenue and profitability.(2)We may be unable to successfully collaborate with all of our customers to achieve the technological innovations sought by our customers. Even if we achieve sufficient levels of customer acceptance of our HPC platform as a valid tool for R&D, we will not achieve significant revenue or profitability from a CDP if a project to which we have devoted technology and significant resources fails to produce any measurable success or value to our customers in the form of differentiated technology and intellectual property. CDPs are extremely complex and time-consuming to implement and costly to maintain. We rely to some degree on the efforts and resources of the customer. Differences of opinion over the implementation and management of the program may occur, which could lead to material delays and/or a failure to achieve the successful development of technology. In addition, there are a limited number of CDPs to which we can commit our resources at any given time. For a variety of reasons, including but not limited to insufficient R&D budgets of our customers or us, we may fail to achieve the technological innovations sought by our customers in a reasonable amount of time or at all. We do not know whether our customers will have sufficient resources to maintain or increase the level of investment in R&D required for a successful CDP. If a CDP does not generate sufficient revenue to recover the upfront costs and cash we invested in the CDP, this would adversely affect our results of operations. 23Table of Contents(3)Our customers may not be successful in commercializing products that incorporate technology and IP developed during our CDPs with them.If we are successful in developing valuable technology for our customers, they still face significant challenges in commercializing products that incorporate the technology. The markets for our customers' products are intensely competitive and are characterized by rapid technological change. These changes result in frequent product introductions, short product life cycles and increased product capabilities. We cannot assure you that our customers will dedicate the resources necessary to successfully execute their business strategies for these products. Our customers are not contractually obligated to make or sell any products incorporating CDP-developed technology. They may not have the financial strength to cost-effectively manufacture the products at high volume and in quantities sufficient to meet demand, or the competitiveness to market and sell their products in intensely competitive markets. They may experience delays in shipments caused by shortages of components incorporated in their products, design errors or other manufacturing problems associated with their products.A decline in demand or average selling prices in the end markets for products incorporating technology developed through our CDPs could result in declining sales revenue for our customers and could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Any failure of a customer to achieve market success for products developed through our CDPs could also negatively affect such customer's willingness to work with us on other collaborations and could more generally harm our reputation and business prospects. Even if a customer is able to successfully commercialize a product, there may be a significant delay before we receive any licensing or royalty revenue due to the complexities inherent in production and manufacturing in our target markets.(4)Potential customers may be resistant to negotiating agreements for payment of license and royalty revenue; and we may face challenges in monitoring and enforcing royalty agreements with existing customers.Our royalty-bearing licenses with our customers lay the framework for ongoing royalty revenue from our customers' products that incorporate technology developed through our CDPs with these customers. Although our R&D activities under CDPs generate revenue for us, in order to achieve profitability we must be able to structure, negotiate and enforce agreements for the calculation and payment of higher-margin license and royalty revenue. Unless we adequately demonstrate the value of our platform to our potential customers we may face resistance to structuring royalty arrangements in the future that are acceptable to us, or our customers may not agree to enter into royalty-bearing licenses with us at all. If we are able to negotiate appropriate agreements, we will need to rely on our customers to provide us with complete and accurate information regarding revenue and payments owed and to make those payments on a timely basis. Licensing and royalty revenue we may receive in the future may be based on sales of our customers' products that incorporate technology developed through our CDPs. In order to accurately report our financial results on a timely basis, we will need to receive timely and accurate information from our customers regarding their sales and resulting payments they owe to us. If the information that we receive is not accurate, we may not receive the full amount of revenue to which we are entitled to under these arrangements on a timely basis, which could result in adjustments to our financial results in a future period. Although we typically have audit rights with these parties, performing this type of audit could be harmful to our collaborative relationships, expensive and time-consuming and may not be sufficient to reveal any discrepancies in a timeframe consistent with our reporting requirements.If a project to which we have devoted technology and significant resources fails to produce any measurable success or value to our customer in the form of differentiated technology and intellectual property that our customer can successfully commercialize, we may not earn licensing and royalty revenue sufficient to recover our upfront investment in the CDP, which could adversely affect our revenue and profitability. In some cases, the revenue we receive from our customers during the development stage is not sufficient for us to fully recover our costs and cash invested in HPC platforms dedicated to customer engagement, and our business model relies on licensing and royalty revenue based on the sales by our customers in the end-markets of products incorporating the technology developed through our CDPs. Our CDPs involve complex R&D, and our ability to develop the differentiated technology and intellectual property sought by our customers is inherently uncertain and difficult to predict. If a project fails to produce any measurable value to our customers, or if we are otherwise not successful in maintaining and managing our CDPs, we may not receive sufficient amounts of licensing revenue to recover our upfront investment in the CDP. 24Table of ContentsWe depend on a limited number of customers, and a loss of any of them, or a significant reduction in revenue from any of them, would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our customer base is highly concentrated. Revenue has historically come from a few customers, and we expect that revenue from a relatively small number of customers will continue to account for a high percentage of our revenue for the foreseeable future. Our three largest customers (all of which are in the semiconductor industry), accounted for 67% and 64% of our revenue in the fiscal years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and our two largest customers (both in the semiconductor industry), accounted for 72% of our revenue in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010. Our largest customer accounted for 28%, 29% and 52% of our revenue in each of these periods, respectively. Our concentration of customers is somewhat a reflection of the concentrated nature of manufacturers in the DRAM, flash memory and complex logic markets, and our revenue is and may continue to be heavily reliant on key high-volume customers. In addition, as with any of our customers, our profitability and success are dependent, in part, upon the receipts of royalties on the sale of products by our customers, and we cannot control the timing of customer product introductions or their success or failure in the marketplace. The loss of any of these customers or a decrease or delay in the manufacturing or sales volumes of their products, or their failure to pay amounts due to us or renew or extend their existing relationships with us, and the related impact on our future anticipated licensing and royalty revenue, would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, and we may not be able to replace the business from these customers.Our customer Elpida filed for protection under the Corporate Reorganization Act in Japan in February 2012, and our future revenue from Elpida under our CDP (including amounts reflected in backlog) is uncertain and may be reduced or even eliminated. In July 2012, Micron Technology, Inc. (“Micron”) and Elpida's trustees jointly announced that they signed a definitive sponsor agreement for Micron to acquire and support Elpida. On October 31, 2012, the Tokyo District Court issued an order to refer Elpida's reorganization plan, which includes the proposed Micron acquisition, to Elpida's creditors for approval. Creditors had until February 26, 2013 to submit their votes. On February 28, 2013, Elpida announced that the reorganization plan was approved by the statutorily required majority of the creditors and was also approved by the Tokyo District Court. The transactions, which are subject to certain other conditions, are scheduled to close in the first half of 2013. However, there can be no assurance that these transactions will close in a timely manner or at all. The use of our technology in their current product shipments generates a license fee for us, and may include a royalty if and when additional developed technology is incorporated in future Elpida products. Any adjustment in the amount of CDP services fees, license fees or royalties that Elpida might owe us pursuant to our agreement with them could be reduced or eliminated as a result of the restructuring or changes in their shipments and product development. If any of these were to occur our revenue would decline, and our financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. As of December 31, 2012 we had $26.6 million in backlog from Elpida, of which $4.1 million is scheduled to be recognized as revenue during 2013 with the balance scheduled to be recognized as revenue in periods beyond 2013. Of the $4.1 million in backlog to be recognized as revenue during 2013 that is attributable to Elpida, we received payment in the amount of $2.2 million in December 2012 for CDP services and license fees for the three months ending March 31, 2013. Failure to convert all or part of the remaining backlog to revenue could cause significant fluctuations in our results of operations because our expenses are fixed in the short term. Our sales cycles are long, and we commit significant resources to a project before we have any commitment that a potential customer may agree to use our platform or service. One or more failures to enter into a CDP after we have devoted significant resources to a project could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our sales efforts require us to educate our potential customers about the benefits of our solutions, which often requires significant time and expense, including a significant amount of our senior management's time and effort. Our sales cycles to date have typically ranged from 9 to 24 months and may be even longer in the future. Furthermore, we need to target those individuals within a customer's organization who have overall responsibility for the profitability of their products. These individuals tend to be senior management or executive officers. We may face difficulty identifying and establishing contact with these individuals. In addition, our customers' technology and product pipeline are highly confidential and they may choose to withhold certain information from us during the sales cycle to protect their own proprietary technology. Our ability to implement our HPC platform and methodology is heavily dependent upon the information provided to us by our customers. If our customers reveal the complexities of their specifications after we enter into a CDP with them, that complexity may cause delays unanticipated at the time we entered into the program. During our sales cycles, we incur significant expenses and, in many cases, may begin to build new systems, configure, modify, expand or customize existing systems, develop software and design workflows to meet our customers' requirements prior to obtaining contractual commitments, without any assurance of resulting revenue. Where a potential customer engagement requires a new dedicated HPC platform, we may invest in new 25Table of Contentscapacity ahead of a customer commitment. Our cycles to build, configure, modify, expand or customize the HPC platform to date have ranged from three to nine months and may be even longer in the future. Investment of time and expense in a particular customer engagement that does not ultimately result in material revenue will adversely affect our revenue and other results of operations. Other factors impacting the length of our sales cycles include, but are not limited to, the following:•the limited number of customers that are appropriate sales targets for our platform and that are willing to enter into licensing agreements with us;•our ability to enter into CDPs with customers who are or will become market leaders in larger, growing market segments;•our customers' budgetary constraints and internal review procedures that must be completed to begin collaboration with us; and •the significant cultural transition required for a customer's internal R&D team to embrace us as a collaborative partner. Semiconductor industry technology is rapidly changing. If we are unable to anticipate trends in technology development and introduce new technologies reflecting the latest innovations, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our customers expect us to stay ahead of the technology curve in their sectors and expect that the technology developed through our CDPs will help them develop new products that keep pace with or push the limits of technological innovation. We rely heavily on the judgment of our management and advisers to anticipate the technology trends in the semiconductor industry and we must continually devote significant engineering resources to keep up with the rapidly growing and evolving varieties of semiconductor architecture, materials, applications, processes and equipment used in semiconductor design and manufacturing. In particular, we must be prepared for the cost, technical complexity and timing of a proposed industry transition from 300mm to 450mm wafers.These innovations are inherently complex and require long development cycles. If we are not able to accurately predict industry changes, or if we are unable to adapt our HPC platform to meet our customers' needs on a timely basis, our existing solutions will be rendered obsolete and our existing and potential customers may choose to develop their own solutions internally as an alternative to ours. If we lose customers, it could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical, subject to significant downturns, price volatility, and other dynamics that make the industry very unpredictable. These factors can have a material adverse impact on our business both directly, and indirectly through the impact on our customers in the industry.The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and has been subject to significant economic downturns at various times, characterized by diminished product demand, accelerated erosion of average selling prices and production overcapacity. The semiconductor industry also periodically experiences increased demand and production capacity constraints. The timing and length of these cycles is extremely difficult to predict, which makes it challenging for us to forecast our operating results, make business decisions and identify risks that may affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the semiconductor industry has historically experienced price volatility. Because the substantial majority of our revenue comes from customers in semiconductor industry, we may experience significant fluctuations in operating results due to the cyclicality and price volatility of the industry. The industry has also been affected in recent years by tightening credit markets, turmoil in the financial markets, and weak, uncertain global economic conditions. These factors may cause sudden changes in our customers' manufacturing capacity requirements and spending, which depend in part on capacity utilization, demand for our customers' integrated circuit products by consumers, inventory levels relative to demand, and access to affordable capital. For example, pressures in the DRAM sector have caused financial difficulties for our customer, Elpida. Industry consolidation (including but not limited to consolidation of semiconductor manufacturing towards foundries and large-scale manufacturers, and the subsequent concentration of research and innovation in manufacturing process development) has increased in recent years, and we may continue to see high levels of consolidation in the future. This will likely result in a smaller number of companies, but more large companies with greater financial resources - companies that may be less likely to become our customers than smaller companies with more limited resources. Furthermore, if any of our 26Table of Contentsexisting customers is acquired, the acquiror may not continue to engage in a CDP with us. For example, our customer Elpida, with whom we have a CDP, recently entered into an agreement to be acquired by Micron. For more details, see the risk factor titled “We depend on a limited number of customers, and a loss of any of them would adversely affect our business and operating results,” above . Even if the acquisition is completed, we cannot provide any assurance regarding the extent to which Micron will continue to focus its product development and commercialization on technologies covered by our CDP. The clean energy industry in general is in a very early stage of development, and the solar industry is experiencing significant economic challenges. As a result, we may not earn significant revenue from our initiatives in this industry for an extended period.The clean energy industry is comprised of several sectors including energy-efficient glass, solar cells, LEDs, advanced batteries and other energy-efficient technologies. Most sectors of the clean energy industry are in the very early stages of development. Many of the associated technologies have not yet achieved commercial viability in comparison to available alternatives, and may never achieve market adoption. Many of the associated technologies will require substantial investments of capital to achieve scale, which may not be available on attractive terms, if at all. Companies within the clean energy industry may also be hesitant to enter into CDPs with us given our limited experience in the clean energy industry. Certain technologies may depend on government subsidies to be commercially viable, and those subsidies may not be available from federal and state governments facing increasing financial constraints. If sectors of the clean energy industry take an extended period to achieve market acceptance and to garner significant revenue, we may not earn material revenue from our initiatives in this area until market acceptance, if ever. Furthermore, it may be difficult for us to predict which clean energy companies and which technologies may become market leaders, and we may invest time and resources in collaborations with companies who are ultimately unsuccessful in the clean energy industry, which could adversely affect our operating results. The solar industry is experiencing a challenging environment, reflected in intense pricing competition due to production capacity significantly exceeding demand, bankruptcies of several solar companies, many solar companies with little or no operating income, and announcements of manufacturing shut-downs or slow-downs. The demand for solar products is also influenced by macroeconomic factors such as the global economic conditions, including the ongoing debt crisis in Europe. A global economic downturn that affects the availability of financing can slow enterprise solar projects; it can also affect individual customers, who may be reluctant to assume high up-front costs but will have more difficulty getting access to capital to cover those costs. Any negative market and industry trends could materially and adversely affect our existing and potential customers in the solar segment and ultimately have a negative impact on our clean energy business.If a project to which we have devoted technology and significant resources fails to produce any measurable success or value to our customers in the form of differentiated technology and intellectual property that they may use in their products, we may not receive meaningful amounts of, or any, licensing and royalty revenue. In this case, we may not recover the upfront costs and cash invested in the CDP, which could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, even if we successfully develop differentiated technology and intellectual property through a CDP that our customer is able to commercialize, there may be a significant delay before we receive any licensing or royalty revenue due to the complexities inherent in production and manufacturing in our target markets.If we are unable to scale our development services to accommodate a greater volume of CDPs, our growth prospects would be limited and our business, financial condition and results could be adversely affected.Our customers require a significant amount of individualized attention as well as dedicated lab space for CDPs. We have limited space and internal capacity, both in terms of personnel as well as capital equipment resources, to meet these types of demands for our customers. In addition, because of the significant confidentiality concerns associated with the projects and products we work on and the restrictions on resource and information sharing we have implemented in response, we are not able to fully capitalize upon economies of scale. If the demand for our services and products exceeds our capacity to meet such demand, we may be required to turn down potential opportunities, which would cause us to lose potential revenue, and our potential customers may take their business to a competitor or decide to develop or expand internal R&D capabilities. If we are unable to scale our development services to meet demand, our growth may be hindered and our business and operating results could be adversely affected.We may be unable to make the substantial R&D investments required to remain competitive in our business.The semiconductor and clean energy industries require substantial investment in R&D to develop and bring to market new and enhanced technologies and products. To remain competitive, we anticipate that we will need to increase our levels of 27Table of ContentsR&D expenditures to keep pace with the development efforts of our customers. We are continually working to develop and broaden our HPC platform, including our software and informatics capabilities, to address a wider range of markets and customers for multiple applications within semiconductors, flat glass, solar cells, light emitting diodes (LEDs), flat-panel displays, advanced batteries and other energy-efficient technologies. This is an extremely complex and costly process. We expect R&D expenses to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future, due to the increasing complexity and number of platforms and solutions we plan to develop both for our customers and internally, the expansion of our customer base and any associated increase in upfront R&D costs. Although we are making progress in certain areas, we have limited expertise and experience in other fields. We may be required to invest significantly greater resources than anticipated in our R&D efforts. If we are unable to build new systems, or configure, modify, expand or customize existing systems for these applications and develop our expertise to support these fields, our business growth might be limited, and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.Our strategy includes conducting proprietary R&D efforts in collaboration with and on behalf of multiple customers. Failure to adequately protect against potential conflicts of interest and breaches of confidentiality would harm our reputation and our relationships with our customers, and our business prospects and operating results would be adversely affected. Moreover, some potential customers may hesitate to grant us access to their proprietary information, which could impair our ability to provide value for such customers.Our strategy includes conducting proprietary R&D efforts in collaboration with and on behalf of customers who in some cases may have overlapping interests and technologies. We seek to structure our collaborative agreements and business practices to minimize any potential conflicts and the possibility of any breaches of confidentiality. We may need access to some of our customers' proprietary information, and they may be reluctant to share it with us because of the risk of a potential conflict between us and/or our customers and other potential customers and the risk of a breach of confidentiality. Our failure to address these concerns could result in our inability to attract new customers or retain existing customers, or lead to our having incomplete information with respect to existing customers that could impair our ability to fully address the customers' needs and demonstrate the value of our technology to the customers. Even if we make significant efforts to isolate each development activity, we may fail to meet the contractual confidentiality commitments as to one or more customers. Moreover, even if we meet these commitments, conflicts between a customer and us, or between or among customers, could nevertheless arise. In either event, we may become involved in a dispute with our customers regarding the solutions developed during the collaboration or the rights to these solutions, including possible litigation. Disputes of this nature could harm the relationship between us and our customers, adversely affect our ability to enter into new CDPs and cause our revenue and operating results to decline.Our business strategy requires us to evaluate, integrate and develop elements of our customers' value chains, including development and manufacturing processes. Our ability to evaluate these effectively may sometimes depend on the cooperation from our customers' materials suppliers and equipment manufacturers as well as access to their data and tools. If these third parties do not cooperate with us or provide us access to the necessary materials, tools or equipment we may not be able to deliver effective solutions to our customers, which would adversely affect our business and results of operations.We have to evaluate multiple elements of our customers' value chains to help them test and develop end products that meet their specifications, including the materials, tools and equipment used by them during the manufacturing process. Our ability to evaluate a customer's value chain effectively may sometimes depend on cooperation from such customer's materials suppliers and equipment manufacturers and on access to their data and tools. Our evaluation of the materials and equipment in the value chain must be unbiased to maintain credibility with our customers, and our evaluation sometimes results in recommendations that our customers change materials, tools or equipment. Our recommendations may negatively impact our relationships with materials and tool providers and equipment manufacturers. Tensions in our relationships with these providers and manufacturers may cause these parties to limit or deny our access to their newest materials and equipment, which would in turn limit our ability to complete our development activities with our customers or control the quality of the combinatorial methods applied to their development efforts, which would adversely affect our business and operations.28Table of ContentsFailure of our suppliers to timely deliver sufficient quantities of the components, materials or software used in our collaborations may result in delays or other disruptions in executing our CDPs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.We have historically relied on a small number of contract manufacturing companies for the manufacture and assembly of a majority of our HPC tools. While we are not dependent on any single contract manufacturing company, key parts of our tools are currently available only from a limited number of sources. In addition, components of our capital equipment are available from only a few suppliers. If supplies from these vendors are delayed or interrupted for any reason, we may not be able to get equipment or components for our tools or our own research efforts in a timely fashion or in sufficient quantities or under acceptable terms, if at all. Even though alternative sources of supply would be available, it could be time-consuming and expensive for us to qualify new vendors and work with them to integrate our designs into the tools they manufacture for us. In addition, we depend upon our vendors to provide components of appropriate quality and reliability. Consequently, if supplies from these vendors were delayed or interrupted for any reason, it could materially and adversely affect our business.Our future growth may present challenges to our management and administrative systems and resources, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.In order to successfully expand our business we will need to continue to grow in all operational areas and to successfully integrate our new employees. In particular, we expect continued growth as we expand our R&D capacity for current and additional CDPs. The expansion of our business may place a strain on our management, operational systems and facilities, which may make it difficult to implement our business strategy. The addition of new employees may increase the likelihood of employee claims against us. To effectively manage our operations and growth, we must continue to expend funds to enhance our operational, legal, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures and to attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees. If we are unable to implement these enhancements efficiently and quickly, then we will not be able to successfully grow our business as planned. Our future operating results will also depend on our management's ability to:•improve our sales, marketing and customer support programs and our R&D efforts;•enhance our operational and financial control systems;•expand, train and manage our employee base; and•effectively address new issues related to our growth as they arise.We may not manage our expansion successfully, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Acquisitions may harm our business and operating results, cause us to incur debt or assume contingent liabilities or dilute our stockholders.We have made and may in the future make strategic investments or acquisitions where there is an opportunity to expand the potential applications and reach of our HPC platform. Exploring and implementing any investments or acquisitions may place strain upon our ability to manage our future growth and may divert management attention from our core development and licensing business. There are also other risks associated with this strategy. We cannot assure you that we will be able to make investments or acquire businesses on satisfactory terms, that any business acquired by us or in which we invest will be integrated successfully into our operations or be able to operate profitably, or that we will be able to realize any expected synergies or benefits from such investments or acquisitions. Our relative inexperience in effecting such transactions heightens these risks. In addition, to finance any acquisitions or investments, we may utilize our existing funds, or might need to raise additional funds through public or private equity or debt financings. Prolonged tightening of the financial markets may impact our ability to obtain financing to fund future acquisitions and we could find it necessary to obtain financing on less than favorable terms. Additionally, equity financings may result in dilution to our stockholders. We cannot predict the number, timing or size of investments or acquisitions, or the effect that any such transactions might have on our operating results.29Table of ContentsOur financial obligation to Symyx Technologies, Inc. could adversely affect our financial health and our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations and limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry.In connection with an agreement for the purchase of intellectual property and the termination of our royalty obligations under a then- existing license agreement with Symyx, we issued a promissory note in the principal amount of $27.3 million to Symyx Technologies, Inc. (Symyx), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Accelrys, Inc., upon the consummation of our initial public offering. The promissory note has a term of 24 months, an interest rate equal to 4% and is payable in an amount equal to the lesser of the principal amount and the greater of $0.5 million per quarter or the amount of accrued interest, with a balloon payment at maturity if applicable. The promissory note is secured by all of our tangible personal property, but excluding intellectual property. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012, the Company paid Symyx $2.0 million, which included interest in the amount of $1.2 million and principal in the amount of $0.8 million. As of December 31, 2012, we anticipate that we will make a final payment of $25.9 million in November 2013.Our obligations under the promissory note require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on interest and principal of the promissory note at or prior to maturity, thus reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts, execution of our business strategy and other general corporate purposes. Such limitations increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions and limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the economy, our industry and new opportunities that may arise. In addition, our obligations under the promissory note and the security interests granted in favor of Symyx may make it more difficult for us to borrow funds in the future to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other purposes, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.We may need additional capital in the future to finance our business.Our future capital requirements may be substantial, particularly as we continue to develop our business and expand our collaborative development efforts. Although we believe that, based on our current level of operations and anticipated growth, our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will provide adequate funds for ongoing operations, planned capital expenditures and working capital requirements for at least the next 12 months, we may need additional capital if our current plans and assumptions change. In particular we may be required to raise additional capital if we choose to expand our business through strategic investments or acquisitions. Our need for additional capital will depend on many factors, including our rate of revenue growth, our expansion of our sales and marketing activities and overhead expenses, the timing and extent of our spending to support our R&D efforts and our ability to expand CDPs in the semiconductor and clean energy industries, whether we are successful in obtaining payments from customers, the financial stability of our customers, whether we can enter into additional collaborations in our target industries and markets, the progress and scope of collaborative R&D projects performed by us and our customers, the effect of any acquisitions of other businesses or technologies that we may make in the future, the filing, prosecution and enforcement of patent claims, how much we need to develop or enhance our solutions or HPC platform and any necessary responses to competitive pressures.If our capital resources are insufficient to meet our capital requirements, and our revenue is insufficient to support any of these activities, then we will have to raise additional funds. If future financings involve the issuance of equity securities, our then-existing stockholders would suffer dilution. If we raise future debt financing, we may be subject to restrictive covenants that limit our ability to conduct our business. We may not be able to raise sufficient funds on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. If we fail to raise sufficient funds and continue to incur losses, our ability to fund our operations, take advantage of strategic opportunities, develop products or technologies or otherwise respond to competitive pressures could be significantly limited. If this happens, we may be forced to delay or terminate R&D programs, curtail or cease operations, obtain funds through collaborative and licensing arrangements that may require us to relinquish commercial rights, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If adequate funds are not available, we may not be able to successfully execute our business plan or continue our business.If we lose one or more of our key personnel without obtaining adequate replacements in a timely manner or if we are unable to retain and recruit skilled personnel, our operations could become disrupted and the growth of our business could be delayed or restricted.Our success depends, in large part, on the continued contributions of our senior management team, in particular, the services of Mr. David Lazovsky, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Dr. Tony Chiang, our Chief Technology Officer. If we lose the services of Mr. Lazovsky or Dr. Chiang, it could slow the execution of our business plan, hinder our development processes and impair our sales efforts, and searching for a replacement could divert our other senior 30Table of Contentsmanagement's time and increase our operating expenses. In addition, our customers could become concerned about our future operations, which could harm our reputation.None of our senior management is bound by written employment contracts to remain with us for a specified period. The loss of any of our senior management could harm our ability to implement our business strategy and respond to the rapidly changing market conditions in which we operate. Upon hiring or promotion, new senior management personnel must spend a significant amount of time learning our technology, business model and management systems and their new roles, in addition to performing their regular duties. Accordingly, until new senior personnel become familiar with our technology, business model and systems or with their new roles, we may experience some disruption to our ongoing operations. Moreover, the loss of a member of our senior management or our professional staff would require the remaining management to divert attention to seeking a replacement.Our future success and competitiveness depends on our ability to retain and motivate our unique team of highly skilled scientists and engineers, who have expertise across various disciplines, fields and technologies, including engineering, materials science, process development and integration, equipment, device process technologies and device integration. In addition, as we grow, we will have to continue to retain, attract and motivate qualified and talented personnel, including our scientists and engineers, management, sales and marketing and legal and finance personnel. Because our CDPs are customer-specific and project-specific and last for a significant period of time, the loss of key scientists or engineers or other personnel could have an adverse effect on a particular development program and on our ability to deliver results to a customer in a timely manner or at all. We do not know whether we will be able to retain all of these employees as we continue to pursue our business strategy. Competition for personnel is intense in the semiconductor and clean energy industries.We may encounter difficulties in hiring qualified scientists and engineers because there is a limited pool of scientists and engineers with the specialized expertise required to understand and implement our platform in conjunction with our customers. Further, we may have difficulty in obtaining visas permitting entry for some of our employees who are foreign nationals into the United States, and delays in obtaining visas permitting entry into other key countries for several of our key personnel, which could disrupt our ability to strategically locate our personnel. The loss of the services of key employees or our inability to retain, attract and motivate qualified scientists and engineers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.If we cannot compete successfully in our industry, our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected.Competition in our market may intensify in the future, which could slow our ability to grow or execute our strategy and could lead to increased pricing pressure, negatively impacting our revenue and ability to attain and maintain profitability. Our current and potential customers may choose to develop their own combinatorial development methods internally, particularly if we are slow in deploying our solutions or improving them to meet market needs. We currently face indirect competition from the internal R&D groups of our current and potential customers, particularly those of our customers who work with us to develop knowledge of combinatorial methods and who may then use our methods independently. Several of them also design, develop, manufacture and market semiconductor products based on their own or other architectures and develop their own intellectual property internally. They often compete with each other and with us in various applications. Our customers are generally much larger and have significantly greater resources than us. We also face indirect competition from university collaborations, consortia and alliance partnerships. In addition, there may be other providers of high-throughput solutions for the design of and R&D relating to integrated devices of which we are not aware and there may be new entrants to the industry in the future, particularly if acceptance of these solutions grows. In addition, we believe that the demand for solutions that address the need for better integration between the design and manufacturing processes may encourage direct competitors to enter into our market. Other potential competitors include fabrication facilities that may decide to offer solutions competitive with ours as part of their value proposition to their customers. If these potential competitors change the pricing environment or are able to attract industry partners or customers faster than we can, we may not be able to grow and execute our strategy as quickly or at all.A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from business arrangements with related parties, and such arrangements could create conflicts of interest that could adversely affect our business and results of operations.Some of our customers and other business partners hold a significant stake in our capital stock. Related party transactions disclosed in our financial statements accounted for $21.1 million (31.6%) of our revenue in the year ended December 31, 2012 and $21.0 million (39.0%) and $26.0 million (60.9%) of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. ATMI, which beneficially owned approximately 8.8% of our outstanding stock as of December 31Table of Contents31, 2012, accounted for $16.5 million (24.7%) of our revenue during the year ended December 31, 2012 and $15.8 million (29.3%) and $22.1 million (51.8%) of our revenue for years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. For more information about these transactions, see Note 11 to our condensed consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K.We believe that the transactions and agreements that we have entered into with related parties are on terms that are at least as favorable as could reasonably have been obtained at such time from unrelated third parties. However, these relationships could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when our board of directors is faced with decisions that could have different implications for us and our related parties or their affiliates. In addition, conflicts of interest may arise between us and our related parties and their affiliates. The appearance of conflicts, even if such conflicts do not materialize, might adversely affect the public's perception of us, as well as our relationship with other companies and our ability to enter into new relationships in the future, including new CDPs with competitors of such related parties, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to do business.We may be subject to warranty claims, product recalls and product liability.From time to time, we may be subject to warranty or product liability claims relating to our HPC tools that could result in unanticipated expenses as we compensate affected customers for product quality issues. Although we maintain product liability insurance, the insurance is subject to significant deductibles and there is no guarantee that coverage will be available or adequate to protect against all such claims. Alternatively, we may elect to self-insure with respect to certain matters. If an HPC tool sold to our customers is recalled, we may incur replacement costs, contract damage claims from our customers and reputational harm. Costs or payments made in connection with warranty and product liability claims and product recalls could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.Compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations could increase costs or cause us to incur substantial liabilities. We are subject to various foreign, federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations governing, among other matters, emissions and discharges of hazardous materials into the air and water, the use, generation, storage, handling, transportation and disposal of, and exposure to, hazardous materials and wastes, remediation of contamination and employee health and safety. In addition, under certain of these environmental laws, liability can be joint and several and without regard to comparative fault. Our operations involve the use of hazardous materials and produce hazardous waste, and we could become liable for any injury or contamination that could arise due to such use or disposal of these materials. Failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations could result in the imposition of substantial civil and criminal fines and sanctions, could require operational changes or limits or the installation of costly equipment or otherwise lead to third party claims. Future environmental laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, or the discovery of previously unknown contamination or violations of such laws and regulations could require us to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities, which could impair our operations and adversely affect our business and results of operations.Global or regional economic, political and social conditions could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.We operate in multiple jurisdictions throughout the world and are subject to foreign business, political and economic risks. In particular, we are subject to risks arising from adverse changes in global economic conditions. Global economic uncertainties in the key markets of many of our customers may cause our customers to delay or reduce technology purchases and investments. The impact of this on us is difficult to predict, but if businesses defer licensing our technology, require fewer CDPs or development tools, or if consumers defer purchases of new products that incorporate technology developed through our CDPs, our revenue could decline. A decline in revenue would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial condition.In addition, some of our largest customers are located outside of the United States, primarily in Asia, which further exposes us to foreign risks. Also, a substantial portion of the consumer products market that serves as the end-market for the products we help our customers to develop is located in Asia. As a result, our operations are subject to substantial influence by political and economic conditions. Reduced end user demand as well as disruptions to the supply chain for our customers resulting from these or other events could lead to a reduction in our revenue and an adverse impact on our financial condition. Our licensing and royalty revenue is derived from sales of our customers' products that incorporate technology developed through our CDPs. To the extent that sales for these customer products are denominated in a foreign currency, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to such foreign currencies could adversely affect our licensing and royalty revenue 32Table of Contentsirrespective of the volume of such products sold, which could adversely affect our business and operating results.In addition, we derive a significant portion of our revenue from customers in foreign countries. We expect that a significant portion of our total future revenue will continue to be derived from companies based in foreign countries. If the U.S. dollar increases in value relative to the currencies in any of these countries, the cost of our CDPs, which have historically been billed in U.S. dollars, will be more expensive to existing and potential customers in those countries, which could adversely affect our ability to generate new or expand existing CDPs.We are also subject to general geopolitical risks in connection with international operations, such as political, social and economic instability, terrorism, interference with information or communication of networks or systems, potential hostilities, changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, and disease outbreaks, and any disruptive effect these events would have on our business operations. Although to date we have not experienced any material adverse effect on our operations as a result of these types of regulatory, geopolitical, and other factors, we cannot assure investors that these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results or require us to modify our current business practices. Inconsistencies among, and unexpected changes in, a wide variety of foreign laws and regulatory environments with which we are not familiar, including, among other issues, with respect to employees, protection of our intellectual property, and a wide variety of operational regulations and trade and export controls under domestic, foreign, and international law may also have unexpected, adverse impacts on our operations and financial condition.Business interruptions could delay or prevent our business activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our headquarters are located in the San Francisco Bay Area near known earthquake fault zones and are vulnerable to significant damage from earthquakes. We are also vulnerable to other types of natural disasters and other events that could disrupt our operations, such as cybersecurity breaches, terrorist acts and other events that may be beyond our control. We do not carry insurance for earthquakes and we may not carry sufficient business interruption insurance to compensate us for losses that may occur. Our business can also be impacted if our customers experience business interruptions as a result of events such as the 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan. Any losses or damages we or our customers incur could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and success as an overall business. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income, and our ability to use our tax credit carryforwards, may be subject to certain limitations.Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income, and our ability to use our tax credit carryforwards, may be subject to certain limitations.In general, a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards (NOLs) to offset future taxable income and its ability to utilize tax credit carryforwards. As of December 31, 2012, we reported U.S. federal NOLs of approximately $37.6 million. In general, an “ownership change” occurs if the aggregate stock ownership of certain stockholders (generally, 5% shareholders, applying certain aggregation and look-through rules) increases by more than 50 percentage points over such stockholders’ lowest percentage ownership during the testing period (generally, three years). We have not determined whether an ownership change has occurred in the past. If we have experienced an ownership change in the past, our ability to utilize NOLs and tax credit carryforwards could be limited. Furthermore, future changes in our stock ownership, such as certain stock issuances and transfers between stockholders, some of which changes are outside of our control, could result in ownership changes under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. For these reasons, we may not be able to utilize a material portion of our NOLs and tax credit carryforwards, even if we attain profitability. According to the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 (HR 8) signed into law on January 3, 2013, the federal research credit, which was allowed to expire on January 1, 2012, was retroactively extended through 2013. This act will not impact the 2012 effective tax rate. However, the federal research credit for the retroactive extensions will be reflected in the 2013 tax provision. 33Table of ContentsSpecific Risks Relating to Our Intellectual PropertyWe may be unable to effectively protect our intellectual property, which would negatively affect our ability to compete.We depend on our proprietary HPC platform for our success and ability to compete. If others are able to reproduce our technology, our business will suffer significantly unless we can prevent them from competing with us. As of December 31, 2012, we owned 971 U.S. patents and patent applications (some of which also have foreign counterparts), which we believe protect our rights in our HPC platform and our rights in the technology developed through the CDPs. While we have been filing patent applications to seek protection for the further evolution of our HPC platform, patent laws provide only limited protection. Furthermore, we may not be able to sustain the high rate of patenting we maintained in the previous two years due to the expense and resource-intensiveness of the patenting process. We cannot assure you that all maintenance fees have been paid or that all filings have been made with the appropriate regulatory or governmental authorities with respect to any IP registered or applied for outside of the U.S. that we purchase. Also, patent protection in foreign countries may be limited or unavailable where we need this type of protection. A more detailed description of how we protect our IP is set forth in Part I, Item 1: “Business - Intellectual Property” of this Form 10-K.The patent positions of technology companies, including ours, are often uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. We apply for patents covering our HPC platform and further advancements of our HPC platform as we deem appropriate. However, we may not obtain patents on all inventions for which we seek patents, and any patents we obtain may be challenged (both before and after any such patents issue) and may be narrowed in scope or extinguished as a result of these challenges. Additional uncertainty may result from the recent passage of patent reform legislation by the United States Congress, legal precedent as handed down by the United States Federal Circuit and Supreme Court as they determine legal issues concerning the scope and construction of patent claims and inconsistent interpretation of patent laws by the lower courts. For these reasons, among others, our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing similar or superior products. In that case, our revenue and operating results could decline.Our strategy includes obtaining patent protection for technology developed in collaboration with our customers. A portion of our revenue from our customers derives from the licenses granted to our customers under these patents. In certain instances our ability to obtain patent protection may require customer approval. If the customer does not provide its approval, we cannot proceed with patent protection and the technology will be subject to trade secret protection only. If we are unable to obtain patent protection, we would not be able to enforce patent rights to the technologies in question.We have developed in the past, and may develop in the future, patented technology with U.S. federal government funding. When new technologies are developed with U.S. government funding, the government obtains certain rights in any resulting patents, including a nonexclusive license authorizing the government to use the invention for non-commercial purposes. These rights may permit the government to disclose our confidential information to third parties and to exercise “march-in” rights to use or allow third parties to use our patented technology. The government can exercise its march-in rights if it determines that action is necessary because we fail to achieve practical application of the U.S. government-funded technology, because action is necessary to alleviate health or safety needs, to meet requirements of federal regulations, or to give preference to U.S. industry. In addition, U.S. government-funded technology may be subject to restrictions on transfer to foreign entities, and some U.S. government-funded data may be subject to public disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act.Many of our customers and competitors have significant operations outside the United States. However, foreign laws may not afford us sufficient protections for our intellectual property, and we may not always seek patent protection outside the United States. We believe that our success depends, in part, upon our ability to obtain international protection for our IP. However, the laws of some foreign countries may not be as comprehensive as those of the United States and may not be sufficient to protect our proprietary rights abroad. Accordingly, our international competitors could obtain foreign patent protection for, and market overseas, products and technologies for which we are seeking patent protection in the United States.34Table of ContentsConfidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosures of trade secrets and other proprietary information.We rely in part on trade secret protection to protect our confidential and proprietary information and processes. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We have taken measures to protect our trade secrets and proprietary information, but these measures may not be effective. We require new employees and consultants to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of an employment or consulting arrangement with us. These agreements generally require that all confidential information developed by the individual or made known to the individual by us during the course of the individual's relationship with us be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties. These agreements also generally provide that inventions conceived by the individual in the course of rendering services to us shall be our exclusive property. Nevertheless, employees, collaborators or consultants may still disclose or misuse our confidential information, and we may not be able to meaningfully protect our trade secrets. In addition, others may independently develop substantially equivalent information or techniques or otherwise lawfully gain access to our trade secrets, and thereafter communicate this information to others without maintaining its confidentiality. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position.Significant litigation over intellectual property in the industry may cause us to become involved in costly and lengthy litigation, which could subject us to liability, require us to stop licensing our developed technology or force us to develop new technology.Whether or not patents are granted to us, litigation may be necessary to enforce our IP rights, to defend against a claim of infringement of IP rights of others or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Because infringement is a fact-intensive inquiry, and because patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until eighteen months after filing (or, in some cases, are not published until they issue as patents), we cannot be certain that we do not now, and will not in the future, infringe a third party's patent rights. We may also become party to claims by our customers to IP rights developed by us in connection with a CDP. If our customers become involved in disputes with third parties over allegations that our customers' practice of our IP rights infringes the IP rights of such third parties, it may also become necessary for us to become involved in such disputes.Any claim, even if without merit, could be time consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, or require us to enter into licensing agreements, resulting in unexpected operating costs. Moreover, our opponents in any litigation may have significantly more resources with which to defend against or assert claims in the litigation. A successful claim of infringement against us in connection with the use of our technologies could force us to stop using our technologies that incorporate the infringed IP; pay substantial monetary damages or royalties; grant cross-licenses to third parties relating to our own IP; obtain a license from the owner of the infringed IP, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all; or re-engineer our platform or products to avoid further IP infringement, which may be technically impossible or commercially infeasible. The occurrence of any of these eventualities could adversely affect our business. Even if we are successful in defending such a claim, litigation could also divert our resources, including our managerial and engineering resources. Any infringement claim or other litigation against or by us could have a material negative effect on our business.Our intellectual property indemnification policies and obligations may adversely impact our business and operating results.Any assertion by a third party asserting ownership or other rights to technology developed through our CDPs could result in our customers becoming the target of litigation and we may be bound to indemnify our customers under the terms of our license agreements. These obligations could result in substantial expenses to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to the time and expense required for us to satisfy our support and indemnification obligations to our customers, any litigation could severely disrupt or shut down the business of our customers, which in turn could damage our relations with them and have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations.35Table of ContentsRisks Related to Ownership of Our Common StockOur stock price may be volatile, which may cause the value of our common stock to decline and subject us to securities class action litigation.The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations. Market prices for securities of early stage companies have historically been particularly volatile. The stock markets in general have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected, and continue to affect, the market prices of equity securities of many companies. A portion of most future fluctuations in our stock price will likely be related to the risk factors described in this section. However, as is the case for many companies with volatile stock prices, price fluctuations may be disproportionate, or even unrelated, to the their operating performance. In the past, many companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have become subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. Factors that could contribute to volatility in our stock price include but are not limited to the following•fluctuations in our financial results or outlook, or those of our customers or of companies perceived to be similar to us;•changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts;•changes in market valuations of similar companies;•changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurring of debt; •announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions or strategic alliances; and•litigation involving us, our general industry or both;•additions or departures of key personnel;•regulatory developments in the U.S., countries in Asia, and/or other foreign countries;•investors' general perception of us; and•general economic and political conditions in the US and globally, such as recessions, interest rate changes and international currency fluctuations We have incurred and will continue to incur increased costs and demands upon management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies, which could harm our results of operations.As a public company, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant accounting, legal and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, including costs associated with public company reporting requirements. We have incurred and will continue to incur costs associated with existing and evolving corporate governance requirements, including requirements under Section 404 and other provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules implemented by the Securities Exchange Commission, or SEC, and the exchange on which we list our common stock. These rules and regulations have substantially increased our financial and legal compliance costs and may cause further increases in the future. These rules and regulations also make it more expensive for us to maintain director and officer liability insurance.If we experience material weaknesses or otherwise fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls in the future, we may not be able to accurately report our financial condition or results of operations, which may adversely affect investor confidence in our company and, as a result, the value of our common stock.As a public company, we are required, under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting beginning with the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012. This assessment needs to include disclosure of any material weaknesses identified by our management in our internal control over financial reporting, as well as an opinion from our independent registered public accounting firm on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a control 36Table of Contentsdeficiency or combination of control deficiencies that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected.We devoted significant resources to hiring personnel and compiling the system and processing documentation necessary to perform the evaluation needed to comply with Section 404 for the year ended December 31, 2012. In future years, we may need to devote more resources to Section 404 compliance, and we may not be able to complete our annual evaluations, testing and any required remediations in a timely fashion. During the evaluation and testing process, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal controls are effective. Lack of effective controls could severely inhibit our ability to accurately report our financial condition or results of operations. We cannot assure you that there will not be material weaknesses and significant deficiencies in our internal controls in the future. If we are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm were to issue an adverse opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would cause the price of our common stock to decline.The concentration of our capital stock ownership by our executive officers, directors and 5% stockholders will limit your ability to influence corporate matters.Our executive officers, directors, current five percent or greater stockholders and entities affiliated with them together beneficially owned approximately 71.5% of our common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2012. Entities affiliated with Redpoint Ventures, entities affiliated with CMEA Ventures and entities affiliated with U.S. Venture Partners beneficially owned approximately 17.2%, 17.1% and 9.7%, respectively, of our common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2012. This significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price for our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with concentrated stock ownership. Also, these stockholders, acting together, will be able to influence our management and affairs and determine the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions, such as mergers, consolidations or the sale of substantially all of our assets. Consequently, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, including a merger, consolidation or other business combination involving us, or discouraging a potential acquiror from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control, even if that change of control would benefit our other stockholders.A significant portion of our total outstanding shares may be sold into the public market at any given time, which could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well.If our existing stockholders sell, or if the market believes our existing stockholders will sell, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. As of December 31, 2012, we had 44,046,970 shares of common stock outstanding. All of these shares can be resold at any time, subject in some cases to the volume limitations and other restrictions of Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, and upon the lapse of our right of repurchase with respect to any unvested shares. Certain of our officers and directors sell shares from time to time pursuant to 10b5-1 automated sales plans, and investors may react negatively to any insiders disposing of shares of our stock.In addition, as of December 31, 2012, the holders of 19,079,670 shares of our common stock are entitled to certain rights with respect to the registration of such shares under the Securities Act. If we register such shares of common stock, these stockholders could sell those shares in the public market without being subject to the volume and other restrictions of Rule 144.We also registered approximately 12.7 million shares of our common stock subject to outstanding stock options and reserved for issuance under our equity plans. These shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to vesting restrictions and the lock-up restrictions described above.If securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about us, our business or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding our stock adversely, our stock price and trading volume could decline.The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts may publish about us, our business, our market or our competitors. If any of the analysts who may cover us change their recommendation regarding our stock adversely, or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our 37Table of Contentscompetitors, our stock price would likely decline. If any analyst who may cover us were to cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.Anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt.Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. These provisions could also make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions include:•staggered board of directors;•authorizing the board to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with rights senior to those of our common stock;•authorizing the board to amend our bylaws and to fill board vacancies until the next annual meeting of the stockholders;•prohibiting stockholder action by written consent;•limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers;•eliminating the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings; and•requiring advance notification of stockholder nominations and proposals. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits, subject to some exceptions, “business combinations” between a Delaware corporation and an “interested stockholder,” which is generally defined as a stockholder who becomes a beneficial owner of 15% or more of a Delaware corporation's voting stock, for a three-year period following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder.These and other provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws could discourage potential takeover attempts, reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and result in the market price of our common stock being lower than it would be without these provisions.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.