Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating To Our Business We have never been profitable, and believe we will continue to incur net losses for the foreseeable future. We have incurred losses since our inception, including a net loss of $5.9 million for fiscal 2012, and had an accumulated loss of $124.0 million as of March 31, 2012. We believe that we will continue to incur net losses for the foreseeable future as we expect to make continued significant investment in product development and sales and marketing and to incur significant administrative expenses as we seek to grow our brands. We also anticipate that our cash needs will exceed our income from sales for the near future. Some of our products may never achieve widespread market acceptance and may not generate sales and profits to justify our investment. Also, we may find that our expansion plans are more costly than we anticipate and that they do not ultimately result in commensurate increases in our sales, which would further increase our losses. We expect we will continue to experience losses and negative cash flow, some of which could be significant. Results of operations will depend upon numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control, including market acceptance of our products, new product introductions and competition. We incur substantial operating expenses at the corporate level, including costs directly related to being an SEC reporting company. Recent worldwide and domestic economic trends and financial market conditions could adversely impact our financial performance. The worldwide and domestic economies have experienced adverse conditions and may be subject to further deterioration for the foreseeable future. We are subject to risks associated with these adverse conditions, including economic slowdown and the disruption, volatility and tightening of credit and capital markets. This global economic situation could adversely impact our major suppliers, distributors and retailers. The inability of suppliers, distributors or retailers to conduct business or to access liquidity could impact our ability to distribute our products. There can be no assurance that market conditions will improve in the near future. A prolonged downturn, further worsening or broadening of the adverse conditions in the worldwide and domestic economies could affect consumer spending patterns and purchases of our products, and create or exacerbate credit issues, cash flow issues and other financial hardships for us and for our suppliers, distributors, retailers and consumers. Depending upon their severity and duration, these conditions could have a material adverse impact on our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruption in the financial markets and the adverse economic conditions in the U.S. and other markets. We may require additional capital, which we may not be able to obtain on acceptable terms. Our inability to raise such capital, as needed, on beneficial terms or at all could restrict our future growth and severely limit our operations. We have limited capital compared to other companies in our industry. This may limit our operations and growth, including our ability to continue to develop existing brands, service our debt obligations, maintain adequate inventory levels, fund potential acquisitions of new brands, penetrate new markets, attract new customers and enter into new distribution relationships. If we have not generated sufficient cash from operations to finance additional capital needs, we will need to raise additional funds through private or public equity and/or debt financing. We cannot assure you that, if and when needed, additional financing will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If additional capital is needed and either unavailable or cost prohibitive, our operations and growth may be limited as we may need to change our business strategy to slow the rate of, or eliminate, our expansion or reduce or curtail our operations. Also, any additional financing we undertake could impose covenants upon us that restrict our operating flexibility, and, if we issue equity securities to raise capital, such as our 10% Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (“Series A Preferred Stock”), our existing shareholders may experience dilution and the new securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our common stock. If our brands do not achieve more widespread consumer acceptance, our growth may be limited. Most of our brands are early in their growth cycle and have not achieved extensive brand recognition. Also, brands we may acquire in the future are unlikely to have established extensive brand recognition. Accordingly, if consumers do not accept our brands, we will not be able to penetrate our markets and our growth may be limited. We depend on a limited number of suppliers. Failure to obtain satisfactory performance from our suppliers or loss of our existing suppliers could cause us to lose sales, incur additional costs and lose credibility in the marketplace. We also have annual purchase obligations with certain suppliers. We depend on a limited number of third-party suppliers for the sourcing of all of our products, including both our own proprietary brands and those we distribute for others. These suppliers consist of third-party distillers, bottlers and producers in the U.S., Bermuda, the Caribbean, Australia and Europe. We rely on the owners of Gosling’s rum, Pallini liqueurs, A. de Fussigny cognacs, Gozio amaretto and Tierras tequila to produce their brands for us. For our proprietary products, we may rely on a single supplier to fulfill one or all of the manufacturing functions for a brand. For instance, Royal Nedalco is the sole producer for Boru vodka; Irish Distillers Limited is the sole provider of our single malt, blended and grain Irish whiskeys; Gaelic Heritage Corporation Limited is the sole producer of our Celtic Honey Irish liqueur; and Terra Limited is not only the sole producer of our Brady’s Irish cream liqueur but also the only bottler of our Irish whiskeys. We do not have long-term written agreements with all of our suppliers. We do not currently have a long-term source for supply of bourbon or rye and there can be no assurance we can source adequate amounts of bourbon or rye at satisfactory prices. Also, if we fail to complete purchases of products ordered annually, certain suppliers have the right to bill us for product not purchased during the period. The termination of our written or oral agreements or an adverse change in the terms of these agreements could have a negative impact on our business. If our suppliers increase their prices, we may not have alternative sources of supply and may not be able to raise the prices of our products to cover all or even a portion of the increased costs. Also, our suppliers’ failure to perform satisfactorily or handle increased orders, delays in shipments of products from international suppliers or the loss of our existing suppliers, especially our key suppliers, could cause us to fail to meet orders for our products, lose sales, incur additional costs and/or expose us to product quality issues. In turn, this could cause us to lose credibility in the marketplace and damage our relationships with distributors, ultimately leading to a decline in our business and results of operations. If we are not able to renegotiate these contracts on acceptable terms or find suitable alternatives, our business could be negatively impacted. 12 We depend on our independent wholesale distributors to distribute our products. The failure or inability of even a few of our distributors to adequately distribute our products within their territories could harm our sales and result in a decline in our results of operations. We are required by law to use state licensed distributors or, in 19 states known as “control states,” state-owned agencies performing this function, to sell our products to retail outlets, including liquor stores, bars, restaurants and national chains in the U.S. We have established relationships for our brands with wholesale distributors in each state; however, failure to maintain those relationships could significantly and adversely affect our business, sales and growth. Over the past decade there has been increasing consolidation, both intrastate and interstate, among distributors. As a result, many states now have only two or three significant distributors. Also, there are several distributors that now control distribution for several states. As a result, if we fail to maintain good relations with a distributor, our products could in some instances be frozen out of one or more markets entirely. The ultimate success of our products also depends in large part on our distributors’ ability and desire to distribute our products to our desired U.S. target markets, as we rely significantly on them for product placement and retail store penetration. We have no formal distribution agreements or minimum sales requirements with any of our distributors and they are under no obligation to place our products or market our brands. Moreover, all of them also distribute competitive brands and product lines. We cannot assure you that our U.S. alcohol distributors will continue to purchase our products, commit sufficient time and resources to promote and market our brands and product lines or that they can or will sell them to our desired or targeted markets. If they do not, our sales will be harmed, resulting in a decline in our results of operations. While most of our international markets do not require the use of independent distributors by law, we have chosen to conduct our sales through distributors in all of our markets and, accordingly, we face similar risks to those set forth above with respect to our international distribution. Some of these international markets may have only a limited number of viable distributors. The sales of our products could decrease significantly if we cannot secure and maintain listings in the control states. In the control states, the state liquor commissions act in place of distributors and decide which products are to be purchased and offered for sale in their respective states. Products selected for listing must generally reach certain volumes and/or profit levels to maintain their listings. Products are selected for purchase and sale through listing procedures which are generally made available to new products only at periodically scheduled listing interviews. Products not selected for listings can only be purchased by consumers in the applicable control state through special orders, if at all. If, in the future, we are unable to maintain our current listings in the control states, or secure and maintain listings in those states for any additional products we may acquire, sales of our products could decrease significantly. If we are unable to identify and successfully acquire additional brands that are complementary to our existing portfolio, our growth will be limited, and, even if additional brands are acquired, we may not realize planned benefits due to integration difficulties or other operating issues. A key component of our growth strategy is the acquisition of additional brands that are complementary to our existing portfolio through acquisitions of such brands or their corporate owners, directly or through mergers, joint ventures, long-term exclusive distribution arrangements and/or other strategic relationships. If we are unable to identify suitable brand candidates and successfully execute our acquisition strategy, our growth will be limited. Also, even if we are successful in acquiring additional brands, we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability levels that justify our investment in, or realize operating and economic efficiencies or other planned benefits with respect to, those additional brands. The addition of new products or businesses entails numerous risks with respect to integration and other operating issues, any of which could have a detrimental effect on our results of operations and/or the value of our equity. These risks include: ·difficulties in assimilating acquired operations or products; ·unanticipated costs that could materially adversely affect our results of operations; ·negative effects on reported results of operations from acquisition related charges and amortization of acquired intangibles; ·diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; ·adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers, distributors and retail customers; ·risks of entering new markets or markets in which we have limited prior experience; and ·the potential inability to retain and motivate key employees of acquired businesses. Also, there are special risks associated with the acquisition of additional brands through joint venture arrangements. We may not have a majority interest in, or control of, future joint ventures in which we may enter. There is, therefore, risk that our joint venture partners may at any time have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with our interests or goals or those of the joint venture. There is also risk that our current or future joint venture partners may be unable to meet their economic or other obligations and that we may be required to fulfill those obligations alone. 13 Our ability to grow through the acquisition of additional brands will also be dependent upon the availability of capital to complete the necessary acquisition arrangements. We intend to finance our brand acquisitions through a combination of our available cash resources, third -party financing and, in appropriate circumstances, the further issuance of equity and/or debt securities; however, our ability to finance such acquisitions may be limited by the terms of our other equity and/or debt securities. Acquiring additional brands could have a significant effect on our financial position, and could cause substantial fluctuations in our quarterly and yearly operating results. Also, acquisitions could result in the recording of significant goodwill and intangible assets on our financial statements, the amortization or impairment of which would reduce reported earnings in subsequent years. Currency exchange rate fluctuations and devaluations may have a significant adverse effect on our revenues, sales, costs of goods and overall financial results. For fiscal 2012, non-U.S. operations accounted for approximately 12.0% of our revenues. Therefore, gains and losses on the conversion of foreign payments into U.S. dollars could cause fluctuations in our results of operations, and fluctuating exchange rates could cause reduced revenues and/or gross margins from non-U.S. dollar-denominated international sales and inventory purchases. Also, for fiscal 2012, Euro denominated sales accounted for approximately 6.2% of our total revenue, so a substantial change in the rate of exchange between the U.S. dollar and the Euro could have a significant adverse affect on our financial results. Our ability to acquire spirits and wine and produce and sell our products at favorable prices will also depend in part on the relative strength of the U.S. dollar. We may not be able to hedge against these risks. We must maintain a relatively large inventory of our products to support customer delivery requirements, and if this inventory is lost due to theft, fire or other damage or becomes obsolete, our results of operations would be negatively impacted. We must maintain relatively large inventories to meet customer delivery requirements for our products. We are always at risk of loss of that inventory due to theft, fire or other damage, and any such loss, whether insured against or not, could cause us to fail to meet our orders and harm our sales and operating results. Also, our inventory may become obsolete as we introduce new products, cease to produce old products or modify the design of our products’ packaging, which would increase our operating losses and negatively impact our results of operations. Either our or our strategic partners’ failure to protect our respective trademarks and trade secrets could compromise our competitive position and decrease the value of our brand portfolio. Our business and prospects depend in part on our, and with respect to our agency or joint venture brands, our strategic partners’, ability to develop favorable consumer recognition of our brands and trademarks. Although both we and our strategic partners actively apply for registration of our brands and trademarks, they could be imitated in ways that we cannot prevent. Also, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how, concepts and formulas. Our methods of protecting this information may not be adequate. Moreover, we may face claims of misappropriation or infringement of third parties’ rights that could interfere with our use of this information. Defending these claims may be costly and, if unsuccessful, may prevent us from continuing to use this proprietary information in the future and result in a judgment or monetary damages being levied against us. We do not maintain non-competition agreements with all of our key personnel or with some of our key suppliers. If competitors independently develop or otherwise obtain access to our or our strategic partners’ trade secrets, proprietary know-how or recipes, the appeal, and thus the value, of our brand portfolio could be reduced, negatively impacting our sales and growth potential. An impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other acquired intangible assets could negatively affect our operating results and shareholders’ equity. The carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of acquired businesses in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date, net of any cumulative impairments. The carrying value of other intangible assets represents the fair value of trademarks, trade names and other acquired intangible assets as of the acquisition date, net of impairments and accumulated amortization. Goodwill and other acquired intangible assets expected to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows are not amortized, but must be evaluated for impairment by our management at least annually. If carrying value exceeds current fair value as determined based on the discounted future cash flows of the related business, the intangible asset is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value via a non-cash charge to earnings. If the value of goodwill or other acquired intangible assets is impaired, our earnings and shareholders’ equity could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Industry Demand for our products may be adversely affected by many factors, including changes in consumer preferences and trends. Consumer preferences may shift due to a variety of factors including changes in demographic and social trends, public health initiatives, product innovations, changes in vacation or leisure activity patterns and a downturn in economic conditions, which may reduce consumers’ willingness to purchase distilled spirits or cause a shift in consumer preferences toward beer, wine or non-alcoholic beverages. Our success depends in part on fulfilling available opportunities to meet consumer needs and anticipating changes in consumer preferences with successful new products and product innovations. 14 We face substantial competition in our industry and many factors may prevent us from competing successfully. We compete on the basis of product taste and quality, brand image, price, service and ability to innovate in response to consumer preferences. The global spirits industry is highly competitive and is dominated by several large, well-funded international companies. It is possible that our competitors may either respond to industry conditions or consumer trends more rapidly or effectively or resort to price competition to sustain market share, which could adversely affect our sales and profitability. Adverse public opinion about alcohol could reduce demand for our products. Anti-alcohol groups have, in the past, advocated successfully for more stringent labeling requirements, higher taxes and other regulations designed to discourage alcohol consumption. More restrictive regulations, negative publicity regarding alcohol consumption and/or changes in consumer perceptions of the relative healthfulness or safety of beverage alcohol could decrease sales and consumption of alcohol and thus the demand for our products. This could, in turn, significantly decrease both our revenues and our revenue growth, causing a decline in our results of operations. Class action or other litigation relating to alcohol abuse or the misuse of alcohol could adversely affect our business. Our industry faces the possibility of class action or similar litigation alleging that the continued excessive use or abuse of beverage alcohol has caused death or serious health problems. It is also possible that governments could assert that the use of alcohol has significantly increased government funded health care costs. Litigation or assertions of this type have adversely affected companies in the tobacco industry, and it is possible that we, as well as our suppliers, could be named in litigation of this type. Also, lawsuits have been brought in a number of states alleging that beverage alcohol manufacturers and marketers have improperly targeted underage consumers in their advertising. Plaintiffs in these cases allege that the defendants’ advertisements, marketing and promotions violate the consumer protection or deceptive trade practices statutes in each of these states and seek repayment of the family funds expended by the underage consumers. While we have not been named in these lawsuits, we could be named in similar lawsuits in the future. Any class action or other litigation asserted against us could be expensive and time-consuming to defend against, depleting our cash and diverting our personnel resources and, if the plaintiffs in such actions were to prevail, our business could be harmed significantly. Regulatory decisions and legal, regulatory and tax changes could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs and reduce our margins. Our business is subject to extensive regulation in all of the countries in which we operate. This may include regulations regarding production, distribution, marketing, advertising and labeling of beverage alcohol products. We are required to comply with these regulations and to maintain various permits and licenses. We are also required to conduct business only with holders of licenses to import, warehouse, transport, distribute and sell beverage alcohol products. We cannot assure you that these and other governmental regulations applicable to our industry will not change or become more stringent. Moreover, because these laws and regulations are subject to interpretation, we may not be able to predict when and to what extent liability may arise. Additionally, due to increasing public concern over alcohol-related societal problems, including driving while intoxicated, underage drinking, alcoholism and health consequences from the abuse of alcohol, various levels of government may seek to impose additional restrictions or limits on advertising or other marketing activities promoting beverage alcohol products. Failure to comply with any of the current or future regulations and requirements relating to our industry and products could result in monetary penalties, suspension or even revocation of our licenses and permits. Costs of compliance with changes in regulations could be significant and could harm our business, as we could find it necessary to raise our prices in order to maintain profit margins, which could lower the demand for our products and reduce our sales and profit potential. Also, the distribution of beverage alcohol products is subject to extensive taxation both in the U.S. and internationally (and, in the U.S., at both the federal and state government levels), and beverage alcohol products themselves are the subject of national import and excise duties in most countries around the world. An increase in taxation or in import or excise duties could also significantly harm our sales revenue and margins, both through the reduction of overall consumption and by encouraging consumers to switch to lower-taxed categories of beverage alcohol. We could face product liability or other related liabilities that increase our costs of operations and harm our reputation. Although we maintain liability insurance and will attempt to limit contractually our liability for damages arising from our products, these measures may not be sufficient for us to successfully avoid or limit liability. Our product liability insurance coverage is limited to $1.0 million per occurrence and $2.0 million in the aggregate and our general liability umbrella policy is capped at $10.0 million. Further, any contractual indemnification and insurance coverage we have from parties supplying our products is limited, as a practical matter, to the creditworthiness of the indemnifying party and the insured limits of any insurance provided by these suppliers. In any event, extensive product liability claims could be costly to defend and/or costly to resolve and could harm our reputation. 15 Contamination of our products and/or counterfeit or confusingly similar products could harm the image and integrity of, or decrease customer support for, our brands and decrease our sales. The success of our brands depends upon the positive image that consumers have of them. Contamination, whether arising accidentally or through deliberate third-party action, or other events that harm the integrity or consumer support for our brands, could affect the demand for our products. Contaminants in raw materials purchased from third parties and used in the production of our products or defects in the distillation and fermentation processes could lead to low beverage quality as well as illness among, or injury to, consumers of our products and could result in reduced sales of the affected brand or all of our brands. Also, to the extent that third parties sell products that are either counterfeit versions of our brands or brands that look like our brands, consumers of our brands could confuse our products with products that they consider inferior. This could cause them to refrain from purchasing our brands in the future and in turn could impair our brand equity and adversely affect our sales and operations. Risk Relating to Owning Our Stock We may not be able to maintain our listing on the NYSE MKT (formerly known as NYSE Amex), which may limit the ability of our shareholders to sell their common stock. If we do not meet the NYSE MKT continued listing criteria, we may be delisted and trading of our common stock could be conducted in the OTC Bulletin Board or the interdealer quotation systems of the OTC Markets Group Inc. In such case, a shareholder likely would find it more difficult to trade our common stock or to obtain accurate market quotations for it. If our common stock is delisted, it will become subject to the Securities and Exchange Commission’s “penny stock rules,” which impose sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that sell that common stock to persons other than established customers and “accredited investors.” Application of this rule could make broker-dealers unable or unwilling to sell our common stock and limit the ability of shareholders to sell their common stock in the secondary market. Our executive officers, directors and principal shareholders own a substantial percentage of our voting stock, which allows them to control matters requiring shareholder approval. They could make business decisions for us that cause our stock price to decline and may act by written consent. As of June 25, 2012, our executive officers, directors and principal shareholders beneficially owned approximately 59% of our common stock, including warrants and options that are exercisable within 60 days of the date of this annual report and assuming full conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock, related warrants and accrued dividends thereon. As a result, if they act in concert, they could control matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors, and could have the ability to prevent or cause a corporate transaction, even if other shareholders oppose such action. Also, our charter permits our shareholders to act by written consent. This concentration of voting power could also have the effect of delaying, deterring, or preventing a change of control or other business combination, which could cause our stock price to decline. Provisions in our articles of incorporation, our bylaws and Florida law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, discourage a takeover and adversely affect existing shareholders. Our articles of incorporation, our bylaws and the Florida Business Corporation Act contain provisions that may have the effect of making more difficult, delaying, or deterring attempts by others to obtain control of our company, even when these attempts may be in the best interests of our shareholders. These include provisions limiting the shareholders’ powers to remove directors. Our articles of incorporation also authorize our board of directors, without shareholder approval, to issue one or more series of preferred stock, which could have voting and conversion rights that adversely affect or dilute the voting power of the holders of our common stock, such as our Series A Preferred Stock. Florida law also imposes conditions on certain "affiliated transactions” with “interested shareholders.” These provisions and others that could be adopted in the future could deter unsolicited takeovers or delay or prevent changes in our control or management, including transactions in which shareholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. These provisions may also limit the ability of shareholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests. Our shareholders may experience substantial dilution as a result of the conversion of Series A Preferred Stock, accrued dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock, the exercise of options and warrants to purchase our common stock, or due to anti-dilution provisions relating to any on the foregoing. As of June 25, 2012, we had 6,847 shares of Series A Preferred Stock outstanding which may convert into 22,523,026 shares of our common stock, accrued dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock which may convert into 1,416,981 shares of our common stock, and warrants to purchase 13,417,301 shares of our common stock. Also, as of June 20, 2012, we had 12,000,000 shares of our common stock reserved for issuance upon the exercise of options granted or available to be granted pursuant to our stock option plan. The conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock and the exercise of these options and warrants will result in dilution to our existing shareholders and could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. The conversion price of the Series A Preferred Stock and certain warrants is also subject to certain anti-dilution adjustments. 16 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 