Item 1A. Risk Factors Our future success is highly uncertain and cannot be predicted based upon our limited operating history. Although our predecessor was formed in 1998, most of our brands, including Boru vodka, our leading brand by volume, have only been acquired or introduced by us since our formation in July 2003. As a result, compared to most of our current and potential competitors, we have a relatively short operating history and our brands are early in their growth cycle. Additionally, we anticipate acquiring brands in the future that are unlikely to have established global brand recognition. Accordingly, it is difficult to predict when or whether we will be financially and operationally successful, making our business and future prospects difficult to evaluate. 15 Table of Contents We have never been profitable, and if we continue to lose money and do not achieve profitability soon, we may be unable to continue our business. Our ability to continue as a going concern is uncertain. As a result, our auditors have issued a going concern report on our financial statements. We have incurred losses since our inception, including net losses of $27.6 million and $16.6 million for the years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and had an accumulated loss of $87.5 million as of March 31, 2008. We believe that we will continue to incur sizeable net losses for the foreseeable future as we expect to make continued and significant investment in product development, and sales and marketing and to incur significant administrative expenses as we seek to grow our current and future brands. We also anticipate that our cash needs will exceed our income from sales for the foreseeable future. Despite our anticipated aggressive marketing expenditures, our products may never achieve widespread market acceptance and may not generate sales and profits to justify our investment. In addition, we may find that our expansion plans are more costly than we currently anticipate and that they do not ultimately result in commensurate increases in o ur sales, which would further increase our losses. Our expenses also include interest on indebtedness incurred. We expect we will continue to experience losses and negative cash flow, some of which could be significant. Results of operations will depend upon numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control, including market acceptance of our products, new product introductions and competition. We incur substantial operating expenses at the corporate level, many of which are directly related to the costs of being a reporting company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Because of our history of losses, our current financial condition and $10.0 million dollars of principal payments on our senior notes payable due May 2009, the report of our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm includes an explanatory paragraph referring to an uncertainty concerning our ability to continue as a going concern. Please see Note 1 to our financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2008. We will require additional capital to finance operations, the acquisition of additional brands and to grow existing brands, and our inability to raise such capital on beneficial terms or at all could harm our operations and restrict our growth. We will require additional capital to finance operations. In addition, in the future we will need additional capital on an accelerated basis to fund potential acquisitions of new brands, expansion of our product lines, and increased sales, marketing and advertising costs with respect to our existing and any newly acquired brands. If, at such times, we have not generated sufficient cash from operations to finance those additional capital needs, we will need to raise additional funds through private or public equity and/or debt financing. We cannot assure you that, if and when needed, additional financing will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If additional capital is needed and either unavailable or cost prohibitive, our growth may be limited as we may need to change our business strategy to slow the rate of, or eliminate, our expansion or reduce or curtail our operations. In addition, any additional financing we undertake could impose covenants u pon us that restrict our operating flexibility, and, if we issue equity securities to raise capital, our existing stockholders may experience dilution or the new securities may have rights senior to those of our common stock. We are dependent on a limited number of suppliers. Failure to obtain satisfactory performance from our suppliers or loss of our existing suppliers could cause us to lose sales, incur additional costs and lose credibility in the marketplace. We also have annual purchase obligations with certain suppliers. We depend on a limited number of third-party suppliers for the sourcing of all of our products, including both our own proprietary brands and those we distribute for others. These suppliers consist of third-party distillers, bottlers and producers in the United States, Bermuda, the Caribbean and Europe. We rely on the owners of Gosling’s rum, the Pallini liqueurs and Tierras tequila to produce their brands for us. With respect to our proprietary products, we, in several instances, rely on a single supplier to fulfill one or all of the manufacturing functions for one or more of our brands. For instance, The Carbery Group is the sole producer for Boru vodka; Irish Distillers Limited is the sole provider of our single malt, blended and grain Irish whiskeys; Gaelic Heritage Corporation Limited is 16 Table of Contents the sole producer of our Celtic Crossing Irish liqueur; and Terra Limited is not only the sole producer of our Brady’s Irish cream liqueur but also the only bottler of both our Boru vodka and our Irish whiskeys. We do not have long-term written agreements with all of our suppliers. In addition, if we fail to complete purchases of products ordered annually, certain suppliers have the right to bill us for product not purchased during the period. The termination of our written or oral agreements or an adverse change in the terms of these agreements could have a negative impact on our business. If our suppliers increase their prices, we may not have alternative sources of supply and may not be able to raise the prices of our products to cover all or even a portion of the increased costs. In addition, our suppliers’ failure to perform satisfactorily or handle increased orders, delays in shipments of products from international suppliers or the loss of our existing suppliers, especially our key supplie rs, could cause us to fail to meet orders for our products, lose sales, incur additional costs and/or expose us to product quality issues. In turn, this could cause us to lose credibility in the marketplace and damage our relationships with distributors, ultimately leading to a decline in our business and results of operations. Our contract with The Carbery Group expires December 31, 2008 and our contract with Terra Limited expires February 29, 2009. If we are not able to renegotiate these contracts on acceptable terms or find suitable alternatives, our business could be negatively impacted. We cannot yet act as our own importer of record in all 50 states and rely on MHW Ltd. to perform this function for us in those states in which we are not registered. The loss of its services could thus significantly interrupt our U.S. sales and harm our reputation, our business and our results of operations. In the United States, there is a three-tier distribution system for imported spirits: the imported brand is sold to a licensed importer; the importer sells the imported brand to a wholesale distributor; and the distributor sells the imported brand to retail liquor stores, bars, restaurants and other outlets in the states in which it is licensed to sell alcohol. While we own most of our brands or, by contract, have the exclusive right to act as U.S. importer of the brands of our strategic partners, we do not currently act as our own importer in the United States for all brands. We currently hold the federal importer and wholesaler license and the requisite license in 25 of the 50 states. For those states where we are not yet licensed, we use the services of a licensed importer to act as importer of record. We have, as a result, historically depended on MHW Ltd. to serve in this capacity for us. In addition to acting as importer of record for us, MHW also provides and supervises storage and transportation of our products to local wholesale distributors and provides several accounting and payment related services to us. Until we are licensed in a majority of the states and bring these services in-house, the loss of MHW’s services or its poor performance, either nationally or at a state level, could significantly interrupt or decrease our U.S. sales and harm our reputation, our business and our results of operations. In addition, while MHW purchases product from us to fill wholesale orders, MHW is not liable to us for any unpaid balances due from the distributors on these orders. In addition, until recently, it was much more cost effective for us to use MHW as our U.S. importer and to rely on its state licenses rather than expend the resources necessary to set up the required licensing infrastructure internally. At this stage of our growth, however, we believe that our fees to MHW, which are based in part on our case sale volumes, are now reaching the point where it may be more economical for us to assume the role of importer ourselves. While we have commenced this process, we currently hold the federal importer and wholesaler license required by the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau and the requisite license in 25 states. Until we have obtained the requisite licenses in at least a majority of the states, we must continue to rely on MHW to perform the importing function for us and, if we continue to grow, pay increasing fees to it for these services. We are substantially dependent upon our independent wholesale distributors. The failure or inability of even a few of our distributors to adequately distribute our products within their territories could harm our sales and result in a decline in our results of operations. We are required by law to use state licensed distributors or, in 18 states known as ‘‘control states,’’ state-owned agencies performing this function, to sell our products to retail outlets, including liquor stores, bars, restaurants and national chains in the United States. We have established 17 Table of Contents relationships for our brands with wholesale distributors in each state; however, failure to maintain those relationships could significantly and adversely affect our business, sales and growth. Over the past decade there has been increasing consolidation, both intrastate and interstate, among distributors. As a result, many states now have only two or three significant distributors. In addition, there are several distributors that now control distribution for not just one state but several states. As a result, if we fail to maintain good relations with a distributor, our products could in some instances be frozen out of one or more markets entirely. The ultimate success of our products also depends in large part on our distributors’ ability and desire to distribute our products to the desired U.S. target markets, as we rely significantly on them for product placement and retail store penetration. We have no formal distribution agreements or minimum sales requirements with any of our distributors and th ey are under no obligation to place our products or market our brands. Moreover, all of them also distribute competitive brands and product lines. We cannot assure you that our U.S. alcohol distributors will continue to purchase our products, commit sufficient time and resources to promote and market our brands and product lines or that they can or will sell them to our desired or targeted markets. If they do not, our sales will be harmed, resulting in a decline in our results of operations. While most of our international markets do not require the use of independent distributors by law, we have chosen to conduct our sales through distributors in all of our markets and, accordingly, we face similar risks to those set forth above with respect to our international distribution. Some of these international markets may have only a limited number of viable distributors. We have recently changed our distributor in the Republic of Ireland. The sales of our products could decrease significantly if we cannot secure and maintain listings in the control states. In the control states, the state liquor commissions act in place of distributors and decide which products are to be purchased and offered for sale in their respective states. Products selected for listing must generally reach certain volumes and/or profit levels to maintain their listings. Products are selected for purchase and sale through listing procedures which are generally made available to new products only at periodically scheduled listing interviews. Products not selected for listings can only be purchased by consumers in the applicable control state through special orders, if at all. If, in the future, we are unable to maintain our current listings in the 18 control states, or secure and maintain listings in those states for any additional products we may acquire, sales of our products could decrease significantly. If we are unable to identify and successfully acquire additional premium brands that are complementary to our existing portfolio, our growth will be limited, and, even if they are acquired, we may not realize planned benefits due to integration difficulties or other operating issues. A key component of our growth strategy is the acquisition of additional premium spirits brands that are complementary to our existing portfolio through acquisitions of such brands or their corporate owners, either directly or through mergers, joint ventures, long-term exclusive distribution arrangements and/or other strategic relationships. If we are unable to identify suitable brand candidates and successfully execute our acquisition strategy, our growth will be limited. In addition, even if we are successful in acquiring additional brands, we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability levels that justify our investment in, or realize operating and economic efficiencies or other planned benefits with respect to, those additional brands. The addition of new products or businesses entails numerous risks with respect to integration and other operating issues, any of which could have a detrimental effect on our results of operations and/or the value of ou r equity. These risks include: • difficulties in assimilating acquired operations or products; • unanticipated costs that could materially adversely affect our results of operations; • negative effects on reported results of operations from acquisition related charges and amortization of acquired intangibles; 18 Table of Contents • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers, distributors and retail customers; • risks of entering new markets or markets in which we have limited prior experience; and • the potential inability to retain and motivate key employees of acquired businesses. In addition, there are special risks associated with the acquisition of additional brands through joint venture arrangements. While we own a controlling interest in our Gosling-Castle Partners strategic export venture, we may not have the majority interest in, or control of, future joint ventures that we may enter into. There is, therefore, risk that our joint venture partners may at any time have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with our interests or goals or those of the joint venture. There is also risk that our current or future joint venture partners may be unable to meet their economic or other obligations and that we may be required to fulfill those obligations alone. Our ability to grow through the acquisition of additional brands will also be dependent upon the availability of capital to complete the necessary acquisition arrangements. We intend to finance our brand acquisitions through a combination of our available cash resources, bank borrowings and, in appropriate circumstances, the further issuance of equity and/or debt securities. Acquiring additional brands could have a significant effect on our financial position, and could cause substantial fluctuations in our quarterly and yearly operating results. Also, acquisitions could result in the recording of significant goodwill and intangible assets on our financial statements, the amortization or impairment of which would reduce reported earnings in subsequent years. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future rendering quarter-to-quarter comparisons unreliable as indicators of performance. Our quarterly revenues and operating results have varied in the past due to seasonality of our industry and the timing of our major marketing campaigns and brand additions. For instance, in our industry peak sales in each major category generally occur in the fourth calendar quarter, which is our third fiscal quarter. As a result, our third fiscal quarter revenues (those for the quarter ending December 31) are generally higher than other quarters. However, for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008, our third quarter sales accounted for only 23.3% of our revenues for that year due to the reduced sales in the Republic of Ireland concurrent with our change in distributor. Our quarterly operating results are likely to continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter in the future. As a result, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenues and operating results are not meaningful indicators of performance. Currency exchange rate fluctuations and devaluations cause a significant adverse effect on our revenues, sales and overall financial results. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008, non-U.S. operations accounted for approximately 28.9% of our revenues. Therefore, gains and losses on the conversion of foreign payments into U.S. dollars could cause fluctuations in our results of operations, and fluctuating exchange rates could cause reduced revenues and/or gross margins from non-U.S. dollar-denominated international sales. Also, for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008, euro denominated sales accounted for approximately 27.1% of our total revenue, so a substantial change in the rate of exchange between the U.S. dollar and the euro or British pound could have a significant adverse affect on our financial results. Our ability to acquire spirits and produce and sell our products at favorable prices will also depend in part on the relative strength of the U.S. dollar. We may not be able to hedge against these risks. Adverse public opinion about alcohol could reduce demand for our products. Anti-alcohol groups have, in the past, successfully advocated more stringent labeling requirements, higher taxes and other regulations designed to discourage consumption of beverage alcohol. More restrictive regulations, negative publicity regarding alcohol consumption and/or changes 19 Table of Contents in consumer perceptions of the relative healthfulness or safety of beverage alcohol could decrease sales and consumption of alcohol and thus the demand for our products. This could, in turn, significantly decrease both our revenues and our revenue growth, causing a decline in our results of operations. Class action or other litigation relating to alcohol abuse or the misuse of alcohol could deplete our cash and divert our personnel resources and, if successful, significantly harm our business. Our industry faces the possibility of class action or other similar litigation alleging that the continued excessive use or abuse of beverage alcohol has caused death or serious health problems. It is also possible that federal, state or foreign governments could assert that the use of alcohol has significantly increased government funded health care costs. Litigation or assertions of this type have adversely affected companies in the tobacco industry, and it is possible that we, as well as our suppliers, could be named in litigation of this type. In addition, lawsuits have been brought recently in nine states alleging that beer and spirits manufacturers have improperly targeted underage consumers in their advertising. The plaintiffs in these actions claim that the defendants’ advertising ‘‘disproportionately’’ targeted underage consumers, by using youthful themes, humor and other subjects that are attractive to young persons. Plaintiffs in these cases allege that the defendants’ advertisements, marketing and promotions violate the consumer protection or deceptive trade practices statutes in each of these states and seek repayment of the family funds expended by the underage consumers. While we have not been named in these lawsuits, it is possible we could be named in similar lawsuits in the future. Any class action or other litigation asserted against us could be expensive and time consuming to defend against, depleting our cash and diverting our personnel resources an d, if the plaintiffs in such actions were to prevail, our business could be harmed significantly. Either our or our strategic partners’ failure to protect our respective trademarks, service marks and trade secrets could compromise our competitive position and decrease the value of our brand portfolio. Our business and prospects depend in part on our, and with respect to our agency or joint venture brands, our strategic partners’, ability to develop favorable consumer recognition of our brands and trademarks. Although both we and our strategic partners actively apply for registration of our brands and trademarks, they could be imitated in ways that we cannot prevent. In addition, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how, concepts and formulas. Our methods of protecting this information may not be adequate. Moreover, we may face claims of misappropriation or infringement of third parties’ rights that could interfere with our use of this information. Defending these claims may be costly and, if unsuccessful, may prevent us from continuing to use this proprietary information in the future and result in a judgment or monetary damages being levied against us. We do not maintain non-competition agreements with all of our executives and key perso nnel or with some of our key suppliers. If competitors independently develop or otherwise obtain access to our or our strategic partners’ trade secrets, proprietary know-how or recipes, the appeal, and thus the value, of our brand portfolio could be reduced, negatively impacting our sales and growth potential. We depend on our key personnel. If we lose the services of any of these individuals or fail to hire and retain additional management personnel as we grow, we may not be able to implement our business strategy or operate our business effectively. We rely on a small number of key individuals to implement our plans and operations, including Donald L. Marsh, our President and Chief Operating Officer, Alfred J. Small, our Chief Financial Officer, and T. Kelley Spillane, our Senior Vice President – U.S. Sales, as well as our other executive officers and our regional and foreign sales managers. While we currently maintain key person life insurance coverage on the life of Mr. Spillane, that insurance may not be available to us in the future or the proceeds therefrom may not be adequate to replace the services of this manager. To the extent that the services of any of these individuals become unavailable, we will be required to hire other 20 Table of Contents qualified personnel, and we may not be successful in finding or hiring adequate replacements. As a result, if we lose the services of any of these individuals, we may not be able to implement our business strategy or operate our business effectively. Further, our management of future growth and our successful integration of any acquired brands or companies will require substantial additional attention from our senior management team and require us to retain additional qualified management personnel and to attract and train new personnel. Failure to successfully retain and hire needed personnel to manage our growth and development would harm our ability to implement our business plan and grow our business. Regulatory decisions and changes in the legal, regulatory and tax environment in the countries in which we operate could limit our business activities or increase our operating costs and reduce our margins. Our business is subject to extensive regulation regarding production, distribution, marketing, advertising and labeling of beverage alcohol products in all of the countries in which we operate. We are required to comply with these regulations and to maintain various permits and licenses. We are also required to conduct business only with holders of licenses to import, warehouse, transport, distribute and sell spirits. We cannot assure you that these and other governmental regulations applicable to our industry will not change or become more stringent. Moreover, because these laws and regulations are subject to interpretation, we may not be able to predict when and to what extent liability may arise. Additionally, due to increasing public concern over alcohol-related societal problems, including driving while intoxicated, underage drinking, alcoholism and health consequences from the abuse of alcohol, various levels of government may seek to impose additional res trictions or limits on advertising or other marketing activities promoting beverage alcohol products. Failure to comply with any of the current or future regulations and requirements relating to our industry and products could result in monetary penalties, suspension or even revocation of our licenses and permits, or those of MHW on whom we are currently dependent to import and distribute our products in the United States. Costs of compliance with changes in regulations could be significant and could harm our business, as we could find it necessary to raise our prices in order to maintain profit margins, which could lower the demand for our products and reduce our sales and profit potential. In addition, the distribution of beverage alcohol products is subject to extensive taxation both in the United States and internationally (and, in the United States, at both the federal and state government levels), and beverage alcohol products themselves are the subject of national import and excise duties in most countries around the world. An increase in taxation or in import or excise duties could also significantly harm our sales revenue and margins, both through the reduction of overall consumption and by encouraging consumers to switch to lower-taxed categories of beverage alcohol. We could face product liability or other related liabilities that increase our costs of operations and harm our reputation. Although we maintain liability insurance and will attempt to limit contractually our liability for damages arising from our products, these measures may not be sufficient for us to successfully avoid or limit liability. Our product liability insurance coverage is limited to $1.0 million per occurrence and $2.0 million in the aggregate and our general liability umbrella policy is capped at $10.0 million. Further, any contractual indemnification and insurance coverage we have from parties supplying our products is limited, as a practical matter, to the creditworthiness of the indemnifying party and the insured limits of any insurance provided by these suppliers. In any event, extensive product liability claims could be costly to defend and/or costly to resolve and could harm our reputation. Contamination of our products and/or counterfeit or confusingly similar products could harm the image and integrity of, or decrease customer support for, our brands and decrease our sales. The success of our brands depends upon the positive image that consumers have of them. Contamination, whether arising accidentally or through deliberate third-party action, or other events that harm the integrity or consumer support for our brands, could affect the demand for our products. 21 Table of Contents Contaminants in raw materials purchased from third parties and used in the production of our products or defects in the distillation process could lead to low beverage quality as well as illness among, or injury to, consumers of our products and could result in reduced sales of the affected brand or all of our brands. Also, to the extent that third parties sell products that are either counterfeit versions of our brands or brands that look like our brands, consumers of our brands could confuse our products with products that they consider inferior. This could cause them to refrain from purchasing our brands in the future and in turn could impair our brand equity and adversely affect our sales and operations. We must maintain a relatively large inventory of our products to support customer delivery requirements, and if this inventory is lost due to theft, fire or other damage or becomes obsolete, our results of operations would be negatively impacted. We must maintain relatively large inventories to meet customer delivery requirements for our products. We are always at risk of loss of that inventory due to theft, fire or other damage, and any such loss, whether insured against or not, could cause us to fail to meet our orders and harm our sales and operating results. In addition, our inventory may become obsolete as we introduce new products, cease to produce old products or modify the design of our products’ packaging, which would increase our operating losses and negatively impact our results of operations. During the year ended March 31, 2008 we recorded a net allowance for obsolete and slow moving inventory of $1.5 million. We recorded this allowance on both raw materials and finished goods, primarily in the disposition of our old packaging of Boru vodka, rendered obsolete with our repackaging in March 2007, and our old packaging of Clontarf Irish whiskey, rendered obsolete with our launch of the new Clontarf packaging in March 2008. In addition, in an effort to refocus our efforts on our faster growing and more profitable SKUs and bottle sizes, we reduced the number of both on some of our other products, primarily Gosling’s rums. The charge has been recorded as an increase to Cost of Sales in the current period and has a significant negative effect on our reported gross profit and gross margin. We have a material amount of goodwill and other intangible assets. We have taken an impairment charge on our goodwill in the current period. If, in the future, we are required to take an additional impairment of this goodwill and other intangible assets, it would increase our net loss. As of March 31, 2008, goodwill represented approximately $3.8 million, or 8.8%, of our total assets and other intangible assets represented approximately $13.6 million, or 32.2%, of our total assets. Goodwill is the amount by which the costs of an acquisition accounted for using the purchase method exceed the fair value of the net assets acquired. Under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142 entitled ‘‘Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,’’ goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets are no longer amortized, but instead are subject to a periodic impairment evaluation based on the fair value of the reporting unit. Any write-down of goodwill or intangible assets resulting from future periodic evaluations would increase our net loss and those increases could be material. Under SFAS 142, impairment of goodwill is tested by comparing the fair values of the applicable reporting units with the carrying amount of their net assets, including goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit’s net assets exceeds the unit’s fair value, an impairment loss would be recognized in an amount equal to the excess of the carrying amount goodwill over its implied fair value. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination with the fair value of the reporting unit deemed to be the purchase price paid. The fair value of each reporting unit was determined at March 31, 2008 by weighting a combination of the present value of our discounted anticipated future operating cash flows and values based on market multiples of revenue and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (‘‘EBITDA’’) of comparable companies. Such valuations resulted in our recording a goodwill impairment loss of approximately $8.8 million for the year ended March 31, 2008. Such adjustments were attributable to downward revisions of earnings forecasted for future years, an 22 Table of Contents increase in the incremental borrowing rate due to operating results that were worse than anticipated and an overall decrease to the value of the comparable companies. Our existing and future debt obligations could impair our liquidity and financial condition. As of March 31, 2008, we had total consolidated indebtedness of approximately $18.7 million. We may incur additional debt in the future to fund all or part of our capital requirements. Our outstanding debt and future debt obligations could impair our liquidity and could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our other obligations; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of any cash flow we may generate to payments on our debt obligations, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other corporate requirements; • impede us from obtaining additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate purposes; and • make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business prospects and limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our industry. If we were to fail in the future to make any required payment under agreements governing our indebtedness or fail to comply with the financial and operating covenants contained in those agreements, we would be in default as regards to that indebtedness. If the lenders were to require immediate payment, we might not have sufficient assets to satisfy our obligations under our credit facility, our subordinated notes or our other indebtedness. Our lenders would have the ability to require that we immediately pay all outstanding indebtedness, and we might not have sufficient assets to satisfy their demands. In such event, we could be forced to seek protection under bankruptcy laws, which could significantly harm our reputation and sales. We may not be able to maintain our listing on the American Stock Exchange, which may limit the ability of our stockholders to resell their common stock in the secondary market. Although we are currently listed on the American Stock Exchange, we might not meet the criteria for continued listing on the American Stock Exchange in the future. If we are unable to meet the continued listing criteria of the American Stock Exchange and became delisted, trading of our common stock could be conducted in the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board. In such case, an investor would likely find it more difficult to dispose of our common stock or to obtain accurate market quotations for it. If our common stock is delisted from the American Stock Exchange, it will become subject to the Securities and Exchange Commission’s ‘‘penny stock rules,’’ which impose sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that sell that common stock to persons other than established customers and ‘‘accredited investors.’’ Application of this rule could make broker-dealers unable or unwilling to sell our common stock and limit the ability of stockholders to sell their common stock in the secondary market. Our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders own a substantial percentage of our voting stock, which likely allows them to control matters requiring stockholder approval. They could make business decisions for us that cause our stock price to decline. As of June 27, 2007, our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders beneficially owned approximately 40% of our common stock, including warrants, options and convertible notes that are exercisable for, or convertible into, shares of our common stock within 60 days of the date of this annual report. As a result, if they act in concert, they could control matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors, and could have the ability to prevent or cause a corporate transaction, even if other stockholders, oppose such action. This concentration of voting power could also have the effect of delaying, deterring, or preventing a change of control or other business combination, which could cause our stock price to decline. 23 Table of Contents Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our ability to produce accurate financial statements and on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we have furnished a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting as of March 31, 2008. We have not been subject to these requirements in the past. The internal control report contained (a) a statement of management’s responsibility for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, (b) a statement identifying the framework used by management to conduct the required evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, (c) management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our most recent fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not internal control over financial reporting is effective, and (d) for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2010, a statement that our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on management’s assessment of internal control over financial reporting. To achieve compliance with Section 404 within the prescribed period, we documented and evaluated our internal controls over financial reporting, which was both costly and challenging. In this regard, we dedicated internal resources, engaged outside consultants and adopted a detailed work plan to (a) assess and document the adequacy of internal control over financial reporting, (b) take steps to improve control processes where appropriate, (c) validate through testing that controls are functioning as documented, and (d) implement a continuous reporting and improvement process for internal control over financial reporting. Despite our efforts, we can provide no assurance as to our, or our independent registered public accounting firm’s, conclusions with respect to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404. There is a risk that our independent registered public accounting firm will not be able to conclude within the prescribed timeframe that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective as required by Section 404. This could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, discourage a takeover and adversely affect existing stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated bylaws and the Delaware General Corporation Law contain provisions that may have the effect of making more difficult, delaying, or deterring attempts by others to obtain control of our company, even when these attempts may be in the best interests of our stockholders. These include provisions limiting the stockholders’ powers to remove directors or take action by written consent instead of at a stockholders’ meeting. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation also authorizes our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue one or more series of preferred stock, which could have voting and conversion rights that adversely affect or dilute the voting power of the holders of our common stock. Delaware law also imposes conditions on the voting of ‘‘control shares’’ and on certain business combination transactions with ‘&l squo;interested stockholders.’’ These provisions and others that could be adopted in the future could deter unsolicited takeovers or delay or prevent changes in our control or management, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. These provisions may also limit the ability of stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests. We do not expect to pay any dividends for the foreseeable future. Our stockholders may never obtain a return on their investment. We do not anticipate that we will pay any dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Instead, we plan to retain any earnings to maintain and expand our existing operations, further develop our brands and finance the acquisition of additional brands. In addition, 24 Table of Contents our ability to pay dividends is prohibited by the terms of our 6% convertible notes and we expect that any future credit facility will contain terms prohibiting or limiting the amount of dividends that may be declared or paid on our common stock. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any return on their investment. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 