Item 1A. Risk Factors The following discussion of risk factors contains “forward-looking statements,” as discussed immediately preceding Item 1A. of this Form 10-K. These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Form 10-K or elsewhere. The risk factors should also be read in conjunction with “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, and the consolidated financial statements and related notes incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. Because of the following risk factors, as well as other factors affecting our financial condition and operating results, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Risks Related to Our Business Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by economic conditions. Prices for oil and natural gas have been volatile. During the most recent period of depressed commodity prices, many oil and gas exploration and production companies significantly reduced their levels of capital spending, including amounts dedicated to the purchase of seismic data services. Historically, demand for our services has depended significantly on the level of exploration spending by oil and gas companies. A return of depressed commodity prices, or a decline in existing commodity prices or other economic factors, could materially adversely affect demand for the services we provide, and therefore affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Industry spending on our services is subject to rapid and material change. Our clients’ willingness to explore, develop and produce depends largely upon prevailing industry conditions that are influenced by numerous factors over which our management has no control, such as: • demand for oil and natural gas, especially in the United States, China and India; • the ability of oil and gas exploration and production companies to generate funds or otherwise obtain external capital for exploration, development, construction and production operations; • the sale and expiration dates of leases in the United States and overseas; • domestic and foreign tax policies; • the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and natural gas; • the expected rates of declining current production; • the availability and discovery rates of new oil and gas reserves; • technical advances affecting energy exploration, production, transportation and consumption; • weather conditions, including hurricanes and monsoons that can affect oil and gas operations over a wide area as well as less severe inclement weather that can preclude or delay seismic data acquisition; • political instability in oil and gas producing countries; 11 • government and other organizational policies, including those of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, regarding the exploration, production and development of oil and gas reserves; • the ability of oil and gas producers to raise equity capital and debt financing; and • merger and divestiture activity among oil and gas producers. In addition, increases in oil and natural gas prices may not have a positive effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Although demand for our services may decrease when depressed economic conditions are present, including lower oil and natural gas prices, the reverse is not necessarily true due to the factors listed in this Form 10-K as well as other factors beyond our control. Our revenues are subject to fluctuations that are beyond our control, which could adversely affect our results of operations in any financial period. Our operating results may vary in material respects from quarter to quarter and may continue to do so in the future. Factors that cause variations include the timing of the receipt and commencement of contracts for seismic data acquisition, processing or interpretation and clients’ budgetary cycles, both of which are beyond our control. Furthermore, in any given period, we could have idle crews which result in a significant portion of our revenues, cash flows and earnings coming from a relatively small number of crews. Additionally, due to location, service line or particular project, some of our individual crews may achieve results that are a significant percentage of our consolidated operating results. Should one or more of these crews experience significant changes in timing, our financial results could be subject to significant variations from period to period. Combined with our high fixed costs, these revenue fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any fiscal period. Our working capital needs are difficult to forecast and may vary significantly, which could require us to seek additional financing that we may not be able to obtain on satisfactory terms, or at all. Our working capital needs are difficult to predict with certainty. This difficulty is due primarily to working capital requirements related to our seismic data services where our revenues vary in material respects as a result of, among other things, the timing of our projects, our clients’ budgetary cycles and our receipt of payment. We may therefore be subject to significant and rapid increases in our working capital needs that could require us to seek additional financing sources. Restrictions in our debt agreements may impair our ability to obtain other sources of financing, and access to additional sources of financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We face intense competition in our business that could result in downward pricing pressure and the loss of market share. Competition among seismic contractors historically has been, and likely will continue to be, intense. Competitive factors have in recent years included price, crew experience, equipment availability, technological expertise and reputation for quality and dependability. We also face increasing competition from nationally owned companies in various international jurisdictions that operate under less significant financial constraints than those we experience. Many of our competitors have greater financial and other resources, more clients, greater market recognition and more established relationships and alliances in the industry than we do. They and other competitors may be better positioned to withstand and adjust more quickly to volatile market conditions, such as fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices and production levels, as well as changes in government regulations. Additionally, the seismic data acquisition business is extremely price competitive and has a history of protracted periods of months or years where seismic contractors under financial duress bid jobs at unattractive pricing levels and therefore adversely affect industry pricing. Competition from these and other competitors could result in downward pricing pressure, which could adversely affect our EBITDA margins, and the loss of market share. We have had losses in the past and there is no assurance of our profitability for the future. Although we showed a net profit of $5.7 million in 2011 and $0.4 million in 2009, we experienced a net loss in 2010 of $39.7 million. We cannot assure you that we will be profitable in future periods. 12 We have supply arrangements with a limited number of key suppliers, the loss of any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, our supply agreement with Sercel, Inc., under which we purchase the majority of our recording equipment on “most favored client” terms, expires in 2013. Historically, we have purchased substantially all of our seismic data acquisition equipment from two key suppliers, Sercel and ION. If either of our key suppliers discontinues operations or otherwise refuses to honor its supply arrangements with us, we may be required to enter into agreements with alternative suppliers on terms less favorable to us, which could result in increased product costs and longer delivery lead times. Under its supply agreement with us, Sercel is obligated to sell to us recording equipment at prices and on terms at least as favorable as those made available to its other customers who purchase similar volumes of like equipment. This agreement expires in 2013. If Sercel declined to extend this agreement beyond 2013, or otherwise did not offer to sell such equipment to us on “most favored client” terms, the cost to us of additional or replacement recording equipment could increase significantly. The loss of any of our key suppliers, or our failure to renew or extend our existing supply agreement with Sercel, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Key suppliers or their affiliates may compete with us. A number of seismic equipment manufacturers are affiliated with or are otherwise controlled by our competitors. We currently purchase a majority of our recording equipment from Sercel, a subsidiary of one of our competitors, CGGVeritas. In addition, we purchase seismic vibrator equipment manufactured by a joint venture between ION and BGP, which is a competitor of ours. There are a limited number of companies which manufacture this equipment in addition to Sercel and ION. If either of Sercel or ION choose to no longer sell this equipment to us, or to no longer sell such equipment to us on commercially reasonable terms, whether as a result of competitive pressures or otherwise, we may be required to use less suitable replacement equipment which could impair our ability to execute our business solutions for customers. We are dependent upon a small number of significant clients. Additionally, from time to time a significant portion of our revenues are generated by a single project. We derive a significant amount of our revenues from a small number of oil and gas exploration and development companies. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we had two clients which accounted for more than 10% of our revenues. While our revenues are derived from a concentrated client base, our significant clients may vary between years. If we lose one or more major clients in the future, or if one or more clients encounter financial difficulties, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, from time to time, a significant portion of our revenues are generated by a single project. Our dependence from time to time on a single project for a significant percentage of our revenues may result in significant variability of our earnings from period to period as these projects are completed. We cannot assure you that NOC and IOC clients will continue to generate the majority, or even a significant percentage, of our revenue. Smaller or less well capitalized oil and gas exploration and production companies may be forced to reduce their budgets for seismic data acquisition services in periods of depressed or declining commodity prices. Our dependence on customers other than NOCs and IOCs for the majority of our revenue could expose us to greater earnings volatility. Historically, our NOC and IOC clients have represented a significant percentage of our revenues. Smaller or less well capitalized oil and gas exploration and production companies may be required to sharply reduce their expenditures for seismic data acquisition services in periods of depressed or declining commodity prices. Our dependence on customers other than NOCs and IOCs for the majority of our revenue could expose us to greater earnings volatility. Revenues derived from our projects may not be sufficient to cover our costs of completing those projects. As a result, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Our revenues are determined, in part, by the price we receive for our services, the productivity of our crews and the accuracy of our cost estimates. Our crews’ productivity is partly a function of external factors, such as seasonal variations in the length of days, weather, including the onset of monsoons, difficult terrain and marine environments, and third party delays, over which we have no control. In addition, cost estimates for our projects may be inadequate due to unknown factors associated with the work to be performed and market conditions, resulting in cost over-runs. If our crews encounter operational difficulties or delays, or if we have not correctly priced our services, our results of operation may vary, and in some cases, may be adversely affected. We have in the past experienced cost over-runs that caused the costs from a particular project to exceed the revenues from that project and we cannot assure you that this will not happen again. 13 Many of our projects are performed on a turnkey basis where a defined amount and scope of work is provided by us for a fixed price and extra work, which is subject to client approval, is billed separately. The revenue, cost and gross profit realized on a turnkey contract can vary from our estimated amount because of changes in job conditions, variations in labor and equipment productivity from the original estimates, the performance of subcontractors, and any other similar conditions. Turnkey contracts may also cause us to bear substantially all of the risks of business interruption caused by weather delays and other hazards. These variations, delays and risks inherent in billing clients at a fixed price may result in us experiencing reduced profitability or losses on projects. From time to time we experience disputes with our clients relating to the amounts we invoice for our services, particularly with respect to billings relating to standby time. The exercise of remedies against clients in connection with our collection efforts could negatively affect our ability to secure future business from those clients. Our contracts for seismic data acquisition services typically include provisions that require payment to us at a reduced rate for a limited amount of time if we are unable to record seismic data as a result of weather conditions or certain other factors outside our control, including delays caused by our clients. From time to time we experience disputes with our clients relating to the amounts we invoice for our services. For example, as of December 31, 2011, we had disputes with certain customers which relate to charges for our services. The exercise of our contractual remedies against these or other clients in connection with our collection efforts could negatively affect our relationship with these clients, and could result in the loss of future business which in turn could negatively affect our earnings in future periods. Technological change in our business creates risks of technological obsolescence and requirements for future capital expenditures. If we are unable to continue investing in, or otherwise acquire, the latest technology, we may not be able to compete effectively. The development of seismic data acquisition, processing and interpretation equipment has been characterized by rapid technological advancements in recent years and we expect this trend to continue. Manufacturers of seismic equipment may develop new systems that have competitive advantages relative to systems now in use that either renders the equipment we currently use obsolete or require us to make substantial capital expenditures to maintain our competitive position. Additionally, a number of seismic equipment manufacturers are affiliated with or are otherwise controlled by our competitors. If any such equipment manufacturer developed new equipment or systems and, for competitive reasons or otherwise, declined to sell such equipment or systems to us, we could be placed at a competitive disadvantage. In order to remain competitive, we must continue to invest additional capital to maintain, upgrade and expand our seismic data acquisition capabilities. In addition to our continuing investment in seismic data acquisition equipment from third party suppliers, we are also currently investing in the design and development of our own land and sea floor nodal technology. However, we may not be successful in developing and deploying this technology in a manner that is technologically or commercially viable. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Capital Expenditures.” Seismic data acquisition equipment is expensive and our ability to operate and expand our business operations is dependent upon the availability of internally generated cash flow and financing alternatives. Such financing may consist of bank or commercial debt, equity or debt securities or any combination thereof. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining sufficient capital to upgrade and expand our current operations through cash from operations or additional financing or other transactions if and when required on terms acceptable to us. If we do not effectively manage our transitions into new products and services, our revenues may suffer. Products and services for the seismic industry are characterized by rapid technological advances in hardware performance, software functionality and features, frequent introduction of new products and services, and improvement in price characteristics relative to product and service performance. Among the risks associated with the introduction of new products and services are delays in development or manufacturing, variations in costs, delays in customer purchases or reductions in price of existing products in anticipation of new introductions, write-offs or write-downs of the carrying costs of assets associated with prior generation products, difficulty in predicting customer demand for new product and service offerings and effectively managing inventory levels so that they are in line with anticipated demand, risks associated with customer qualification, evaluation of new products, and the risk that new products may have quality or other defects or may not be supported adequately by application software. The introduction of new products and services by our competitors also may result in delays in customer purchases and difficulty in predicting customer demand. If we do not make an effective transition from existing products and services to future offerings, our revenues and margins may decline. 14 Furthermore, sales of our new products and services may replace sales, or result in discounting, of some of our current offerings, offsetting the benefit of a successful new product introduction. In addition, it may be difficult to ensure performance of new products and services in accordance with our revenue, margin, and cost estimates and to achieve operational efficiencies embedded in our estimates. Given the competitive nature of the seismic industry, if any of these risks materialize, the future demand for our products and services, and our future results of operations, may suffer. We are exposed to risks related to complex, highly technical products. Our customers often require demanding specifications for product performance and reliability. Because many of our products are complex and often use unique advanced components, processes, technologies, and techniques, undetected errors and design and manufacturing flaws may occur. Even though we attempt to assure that our systems perform reliably in the field, the many technical variables related to their operations can cause a combination of factors that may, and from time to time have, caused performance and service issues with certain of our products. Product defects result in higher product service, warranty, and replacement costs and may affect our customer relationships and industry reputation, all of which may adversely impact our results of operations. Despite our testing and quality assurance programs, undetected errors may not be discovered until the product is purchased and used by a customer in a variety of field conditions. If our customers deploy our new products and they do not work correctly, our relationship with our customers may be materially and adversely affected. Our backlog estimates are based on certain assumptions and are subject to unexpected adjustments and cancellations and thus may not be timely converted to revenues in any particular fiscal period, if at all, or be indicative of our actual operating results for any future period. Our backlog estimates represent those seismic data acquisition projects for which a client has executed a contract and has a scheduled start date for the project as well as unrecognized pre-committed funding from our Multi-client Services segment. Backlog estimates are based on a number of assumptions and estimates including assumptions related to foreign exchange rates and proportionate performance of contracts and our valuation of assets, such as seismic data, to be received by us as payment under certain agreements. The realization of our backlog estimates is further affected by our performance under term rate contracts, as the early or late completion of a project under term rate contracts will generally result in decreased or increased, as the case may be, revenues derived from these projects. Contracts for services are also occasionally modified by mutual consent. Because of potential changes in the scope or schedule of our clients’ projects, we cannot predict with certainty when or if our backlog will be realized. Even where a project proceeds as scheduled, it is possible that the client may default and fail to pay amounts owed to us. In addition, the contracts in our backlog are cancelable by the client. Material delays, payment defaults or cancellations could reduce the amount of backlog currently reported, and consequently, could inhibit the conversion of that backlog into revenues. We have invested, and expect to continue to invest, significant amounts of money in acquiring and processing seismic data for Multi-client surveys and for our seismic data library without knowing precisely how much of this seismic data we will be able to sell or when and at what price we will be able to sell such data. Multi-client surveys and the resulting seismic data library are an increasingly important part of our business and our future investments. We invest significant amounts of money in acquiring and processing seismic data that we own. By making such investments, we are exposed to the following risks: • We may not fully recover our costs of acquiring, processing and interpreting seismic data through future sales. The amounts of these data sales are uncertain and depend on a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. • The timing of these sales is unpredictable and can vary greatly from period to period. The costs of each survey are capitalized and then amortized over the expected useful life of the data. This amortization will affect our earnings and when combined with the sporadic nature of sales, will result in increased earnings volatility. • Regulatory changes that affect companies’ ability to drill, either generally or in a specific location where we have acquired seismic data, could materially adversely affect the value of the seismic data contained in our library. Technology changes could also make existing data sets obsolete. Additionally, each of our individual surveys has a limited book life based on its location and oil and gas companies’ interest in prospecting for reserves in such location, so a particular survey may be subject to a significant decline in value beyond our initial estimates. 15 • The value of our Multi-client data could be significantly adversely affected if any material adverse change occurs in the general prospects for oil and gas exploration, development and production activities. • The cost estimates upon which we base our pre-commitments of funding could be wrong, which could result in losses that have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results or operations. • Pre-commitments of funding are subject to the creditworthiness of our clients. In the event that a client refuses or is unable to pay its commitment, we could lose a material amount of money. • If our clients significantly increase their preference toward licensing seismic data from Multi-client data libraries, we may not have the appropriate existing data library assets to be able to obtain permits and access rights to geographic areas of interest from which to record such data, or make appropriate levels of investment in the creation of new data library assets to support our business strategy. Any reduction in the market value of such data will require us to write down its recorded value, which could have a significant material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our operations are subject to delays related to obtaining land access rights from third parties which could affect our results of operations. Our seismic data acquisition operations could be adversely affected by our inability to timely obtain access to both public and private land included within a seismic survey. We cannot begin surveys on property without obtaining permits from certain governmental entities as well as the permission of the parties who have rights to the land being surveyed. In recent years, it has become more difficult, costly and time-consuming to obtain access rights as drilling activities have expanded into more populated areas. Additionally, while land owners generally are cooperative in granting access rights, some have become more resistant to seismic and drilling activities occurring on their property and stall or refuse to grant these rights for various reasons. In our Multi-client Services segment, we acquire data sets pertaining to large areas of land. Consequently, if we do not obtain land access rights from a specific land owner, we may not be able to provide a complete survey for that area. The failure to redact or remove the seismic information relating to mineral interests held by non-consenting third parties could result in claims against us for seismic trespass. In addition, governmental entities do not always grant permits within the time periods expected. Delays associated with obtaining such permits and significant omissions from a survey as a result of the failure to obtain consents could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We operate under hazardous conditions that subject us and our employees to risk of damage to property or personal injury and limitations on our insurance coverage may expose us to potentially significant liability costs. Our activities are often conducted in dangerous environments and under hazardous conditions, including the detonation of dynamite. Operating in such environments and under such conditions carries with it inherent risks, such as damage to or loss of human life or equipment, as well as the risk of downtime or reduced productivity resulting from equipment failures caused by such adverse operating environment. These risks could cause us to experience equipment losses, injuries to our personnel and interruptions in our business. We cannot assure you that our insurance will be sufficient or adequate to cover all losses or liabilities or that insurance will continue to be available to us or available to us on acceptable terms. A successful claim for which we are not fully insured, or which exceeds the policy limits of our applicable insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Moreover, we do not carry business interruption insurance with respect to our operations. Our agreements with our clients may not adequately protect us from unforeseen events or address all issues that could arise with our clients. The occurrence of unforeseen events not adequately addressed in the contracts could result in increased liability, costs and expenses associated with any given project. With many of our clients we enter into master service agreements which allocate certain operational risks. Despite the inclusion of risk allocation provisions in our agreements, our operations may be affected by a number of events that are unforeseen or not within our control. We cannot assure you that our agreements will adequately protect us from each possible event. If an event occurs which we have not contemplated or otherwise addressed in our agreement, we, and not our client, will likely bear the increased cost or liability. To the extent our agreements do not adequately address these and other issues, or we are not able to successfully resolve resulting disputes, we may incur increased liability, costs and expenses. 16 Weather may adversely affect our ability to conduct business. Our seismic data acquisition operations could be adversely affected by inclement weather conditions. Delays associated with weather conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For example, weather delays focused on a particular project or region could lengthen the time to complete the project, resulting in decreased margins to us. Our operations in or near the Gulf of Mexico may be subject to stoppages for hurricanes. In addition, our operations in the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal are subject to stoppages for monsoons. Accordingly, the results of any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of annual results or continuing trends. We may be held liable for the actions of our subcontractors. We often work as the general contractor on seismic data acquisition surveys and consequently engage a number of subcontractors to perform services and provide products. There can be no assurance we will not be held liable for the actions of these subcontractors. In addition, subcontractors may cause damage or injury to our personnel and property that is not fully covered by insurance. Current or future distressed financial conditions of clients could have an adverse effect on us in the event these clients are unable to pay us for our services. Some of our clients are experiencing, or may experience in the future, severe financial problems that have had or may have a significant effect on their creditworthiness. We generally do not require that our clients make advance payments or otherwise collateralize their payment obligations. We cannot provide assurance that one or more of our financially distressed clients will not default on their payment obligations to us or that such a default or defaults will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Furthermore, the bankruptcy of one or more of our clients, or other similar proceeding or liquidity constraint, will reduce the amounts we can expect to recover, if any, with respect to amounts owed to us by such party. In addition, such events might force those clients to reduce or curtail their future use of our products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The high fixed costs of our operations could result in operating losses. We are subject to high fixed costs which primarily consist of depreciation, maintenance expenses associated with our seismic data acquisition, processing and interpretation equipment and certain crew costs. Because substantially all of our equipment is new or nearly new, we believe that our depreciation expense relative to our revenues is higher than that of many of our competitors. Extended periods of significant downtime or low productivity caused by reduced demand, weather interruptions, equipment failures, permit delays or other causes could reduce our profitability and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations because we will not be able to reduce our fixed costs as fast as revenues decline. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by goodwill or long-lived asset impairments. We periodically review our portfolio of equipment for impairment. A prolonged downturn could affect the carrying value of our goodwill and require us to recognize a loss. If we expect significant sustained decreases in oil and natural gas prices in the future, we may be required to write down the value of our equipment if the future cash flows anticipated to be generated from the related equipment falls below net book value. A decline in oil and natural gas prices, if sustained, can result in future impairments. In addition, changes in industry conditions, such as changes in applicable laws and regulations, could affect the usefulness of our Multi-client seismic data library to oil and gas companies, thereby requiring us to write down the value of our seismic data library. If we are forced to write down the value of our assets, these non-cash asset impairments could negatively affect our results of operations in the period in which they are recorded. See discussions of “Asset Impairment” and “Goodwill” included in Note 2 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.” We are subject to compliance with stringent environmental laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. Our operations are subject to stringent federal, provincial, state and local environmental laws and regulations in the United States and foreign jurisdictions relating to environmental protection. In our business, we use explosives and certain other regulated hazardous materials that are subject to such regulation. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations that are applicable to our operations including: • the acquisition of permits before commencing regulated activities; 17 • the limitation or prohibition of seismic activities in environmentally sensitive or protected areas such as wetlands or wilderness areas; • restrictions pertaining to the management and operation of our vehicles and equipment; and • licensing requirements for our personnel handling explosives and other regulated hazardous materials. Numerous governmental authorities, such as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), BATFE, the Bureau of Land Management (“BLM”) and analogous state agencies in the United States and governmental bodies with control over environmental matters in foreign jurisdictions, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and any licenses and permits issued under them, oftentimes requiring difficult and costly actions. In addition, failure to comply with these laws, regulations and permits may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of obligations to investigate and/or remediate contaminations, and the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our operations. We invest extensive financial and management resources to comply with these laws and related licensing and permitting requirements, and we believe that the regulatory environment for the oil and natural gas industry and related service providers is likely to become more burdensome and time consuming than it ever has been before. Over the last year, permitting authorities have begun requiring us to comply with standards that have never before applied to seismic companies. As further discussed below, some proposed regulations would inhibit the use of hydraulic fracturing in connection with the drilling of wells, which is a crucial part in recovering economic amounts of hydrocarbons from shale plays, which represent a significant opportunity for us. If oil and natural gas companies face regulation that makes drilling for resources uneconomic, the demand for our services may be adversely affected. In addition, the ongoing revision of such environmental laws and regulations, sometimes as a direct result of particular economic, political, or social events, makes it difficult for seismic data acquisition companies to predict future costs or the impact of such laws and regulations on future projects. As a result, we could incur capital and operating expenses, as well as compliance costs, beyond those anticipated which could adversely affect our future operations. There is inherent risk of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities in our operations due to our controlled storage, use and disposal of explosives. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result or we could be penalized with fines, and any liability could exceed the limits of or fall outside our insurance coverage. Current and future legislation relating to climate change and hydraulic fracturing may negatively impact the exploration and production of oil and gas, and implicitly the demand for our products and services. Our company along with other seismic data acquisition companies may be affected by new environmental legislation intended to limit or reduce increased emissions of gases, such as carbon dioxide and methane from the burning of fossil fuels (oil, gas and coal), which may be a contributing factor to climate change. The European Union has already established greenhouse gas (“GHGs”) regulations, and many other countries, including the United States, are in the process of enacting similar regulations. This could cause us to incur additional direct and indirect compliance costs in relation to any new climate change laws and regulations. Moreover, passage of climate change legislation or other regulatory initiatives that target emissions of GHGs may impair exploration and production of hydrocarbons and thus adversely affect future demand for our products and services. Reductions in our revenues or increases in our expenses as a result of climate control legislative initiatives could have negative impact on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. Although various climate change legislative measures have been under consideration by the U.S. Congress, it is not possible at this time to predict whether or when Congress may act on climate change legislation. In addition, the “Fracturing Responsibility and Awareness of Chemicals Act” (the “FRAC Act”) was introduced to both houses of the 111th U.S. Congress on June 9, 2009, aiming to amend the “Safe Drinking Water Act” (the “SDWA”) by repealing an exemption from regulation for hydraulic fracturing. The 111th U.S. Congress adjourned on January 3, 2011, without taking any significant action on the FRAC Act; however it was reintroduced in both houses of the 112th U.S. Congress. If enacted, the FRAC Act would amend the definition of “underground injection” in the SDWA to encompass hydraulic fracturing activities. Such a provision could require hydraulic fracturing operations to meet permitting and financial assurance requirements, adhere to certain construction specifications, fulfill monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping obligations, and meet plugging and abandonment requirements. The FRAC Act also proposes to require the reporting and public disclosure by the energy industry of the chemicals mixed with the water and sand it pumps underground in the hydraulic fracturing process (also known as “fracking”), information that has largely been protected as trade secrets. This reporting would make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect groundwater. The adoption of any future federal or state laws or implementing regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or otherwise limiting, the hydraulic fracturing process could make it more difficult to complete natural gas wells. Shale gas cannot be economically produced without extensive fracturing. While proposed legislation is still pending in Congress, the EPA has also reviewed its existing authority under the SDWA and asserted its intent to regulate hydraulic fracturing operations involving diesel additives. In the event this legislation is enacted, demand for seismic acquisition services may be adversely affected. 18 Most recently, representing shareholders, investor groups are increasingly pressing U.S. oil and gas companies to take stronger actions and increase public disclosure of information on fracking, climate change, and environment changes. In their resolutions, these groups request detailed accounting of how oil and gas companies are addressing the risks of fracking associated with threats to environment, communities, labor, regulatory changes and drilling moratoriums. If successful, these actions may result in substantial cost increases, delays, suspensions or even cancellations of existing or new exploration projects, with a direct adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. Historically our operational expenses incurred in connection with international seismic data projects have been higher, as a percentage of revenues, than the operational expenses incurred in connection with seismic data projects undertaken in the United States. The profitability of our future international operations will depend significantly on our ability to control these expenses. The expense of mobilizing personnel and equipment to various foreign locations, as well as the cost of obtaining and complying with local regulatory requirements historically have been significantly higher than the expenses incurred in connection with seismic data projects undertaken in the United States. If we are unable to reduce the expenses incurred in connection with an international seismic data project, or to obtain better pricing for such services, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Operating internationally subjects us to significant risks and regulation inherent in operating in foreign countries. We conduct operations on a global scale. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 25% of our property, plant and equipment and approximately 16% of our employees were located outside of the U.S. and, for the year ended December 31, 2011, approximately 47% of our revenues were attributable to operations in foreign countries. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks inherent to any business operating in foreign countries, and especially those with emerging markets. As we continue to increase our presence in such countries, our operations will encounter the following risks, among others: • government instability, which can cause investment in capital projects by our potential clients to be withdrawn or delayed, reducing or eliminating the viability of some markets for our services; • potential expropriation, seizure, nationalization or detention of assets; • difficulty in repatriating foreign currency received in excess of local currency requirements; • import/export quotas; • civil uprisings, riots and war, which can make it unsafe to continue operations, adversely affect both budgets and schedules and expose us to losses; • availability of suitable personnel and equipment, which can be affected by government policy, or changes in policy, which limit the importation of qualified crewmembers or specialized equipment in areas where local resources are insufficient; • decrees, laws, regulations, interpretation and court decisions under legal systems, which are not always fully developed and which may be retroactively applied and cause us to incur unanticipated and/or unrecoverable costs as well as delays which may result in real or opportunity costs; and • terrorist attacks, including kidnappings of our personnel. We cannot predict the nature and the likelihood of any such events. However, if any of these or other similar events should occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. 19 Certain of the seismic equipment that we use in certain foreign countries may require prior U.S. government approval in the form of an export license and may otherwise be subject to tariffs and import/export restrictions. The delay in obtaining required governmental approvals could affect our ability to timely commence a project, and the failure to comply with all such controls could result in fines and other penalties. We are subject to taxation in many foreign jurisdictions and the final determination of our tax liabilities involves the interpretation of the statutes and requirements of taxing authorities worldwide. Our tax returns are subject to routine examination by taxing authorities, and these examinations may result in assessments of additional taxes, penalties and/or interest. Our overall success as a global business depends, in part, upon our ability to succeed in differing economic, social and political conditions. We may not continue to succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies that are effective in each location where we do business, which could negatively affect our profitability. As a company subject to compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”), our business may suffer because our efforts to comply with U.S. laws could restrict our ability to do business in foreign markets relative to our competitors who are not subject to U.S. law. Additionally, our business plan involves establishing joint ventures with partners in certain foreign markets. Any determination that we or our foreign agents or joint venture partners have violated the FCPA may adversely affect our business and operations. We and our local partners operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. We may be subject to competitive disadvantages to the extent that our competitors are able to secure business, licenses or other preferential treatment by making payments to government officials and others in positions of influence or using other methods that U.S. law and regulations prohibit us from using. As a U.S. corporation, we are subject to the regulations imposed by the FCPA, which generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business. In particular, we may be held liable for actions taken by our strategic or local partners even though our partners are not subject to the FCPA. Any such violations could result in substantial civil and/or criminal penalties and might adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, our ability to continue to work in the countries discussed above could be adversely affected if we were found to have violated certain U.S. laws, including the FCPA. Our results of operations can be significantly affected by currency fluctuations. A portion of our revenues is derived in the local currencies of the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. Accordingly, we are subject to risks relating to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. In the future, and especially as we expand our sales in international markets, our clients may increasingly make payments in non-U.S. currencies. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could affect our sales, cost of sales and operating margins. In addition, currency devaluation can result in a loss to us if we hold deposits of that currency. Hedging foreign currencies can be difficult, especially if the currency is not actively traded. We cannot predict the effect of future exchange rate fluctuations on our operating results. A terrorist attack or armed conflict could harm our business. Some seismic surveys are located in unstable political jurisdictions, including North Africa and the Middle East. Terrorist activities, anti-terrorist efforts and other armed conflicts involving the United States or other countries may adversely affect our ability to work in these markets which could prevent us from meeting our financial and other obligations. These activities could have a direct negative effect on our business in those areas, including loss of life, equipment and data. Costs for insurance and security may increase as a result of these threats, and some insurance coverage may become more difficult to obtain, if available at all. Our success depends on key members of our management, the loss of any of whom could disrupt our business operations. The loss of the services of Richard A. Degner, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, or other key personnel could disrupt our operations which in turn could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 20 We may be unable to attract and retain skilled and technically knowledgeable employees, which could adversely affect our business. Our success depends upon attracting and retaining highly skilled professionals and other technical personnel. A number of our employees are highly skilled scientists and highly trained technicians, and our failure to continue to attract and retain such individuals could adversely affect our ability to compete in the seismic services industry. We may confront significant and potentially adverse competition for these skilled and technically knowledgeable personnel, particularly during periods of increased demand for seismic services. Additionally, at times there may be a shortage of skilled and technical personnel available in the market, potentially compounding the difficulty of attracting and retaining these employees. As a result, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Our industry has periodically experienced shortages in the availability of equipment. Any difficulty we experience replacing or adding equipment could adversely affect our business. If the demand for seismic services increases, we may not be able to acquire equipment to replace our existing equipment or add additional equipment. From time to time, the high demand for seismic services has decreased the availability of geophysical equipment, resulting in extended delivery dates on orders of new equipment. If that happens again, any delay in obtaining equipment could delay our implementation of additional or larger crews and restrict the productivity of our existing crews. Our required equipment may not continue to be available to us at costs which allow us to be profitable. A delay in obtaining equipment essential to our operations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we do not manage our recent growth and expansion effectively, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We have experienced substantial growth to date. This growth has presented a challenge to our systems, processes, resources, personnel, management and other infrastructure and support mechanisms. The following factors could present difficulties to us: • lack of sufficient executive level and skilled crew personnel; • increased administrative burden; and • increased logistical problems common to large, expansive operations. If we do not manage these growth challenges effectively, our profitability and results of operations could be adversely affected, our management resources may be diverted and our future growth impeded. We may grow through acquisitions and our failure to properly plan and manage those acquisitions may adversely affect our performance. We plan to expand not only through organic growth, but through the strategic acquisition of companies and assets. We must plan and manage any acquisitions effectively to achieve revenue growth and maintain profitability in our evolving market. If we fail to manage acquisitions effectively, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our growth has placed, and is expected to continue to place, significant demands on our personnel, management and other resources. We must continue to improve our operational, financial, management, legal compliance and information systems to keep pace with the growth of our business. Any future acquisitions could present a number of risks, including but not limited to: • incorrect assumptions regarding the future results of acquired operations or assets or expected cost reductions or other synergies expected to be realized as a result of acquiring operations or assets; • failure to integrate the operations or management of any acquired operations or assets successfully and timely; • diversion of management’s attention from existing operations or other priorities; and • our inability to secure sufficient financing, on terms we find acceptable, that may be required for any such acquisition or investment. 21 Our business plan anticipates, and is based upon our ability to successfully complete acquisitions of other businesses or assets. Our failure to do so, or to successfully integrate our acquisitions in a timely and cost effective manner, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate and timely consolidated financial statements could be impaired, which could harm our operating results, our ability to operate our business and investor views of us. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place so that we can produce accurate consolidated financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated frequently. Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Both we and our independent auditors will be testing our internal controls in connection with the audit of our consolidated financial statements for the year ending December 31, 2011 and, as part of the testing, identifying areas for further attention and improvement. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate and timely consolidated financial statements could be impaired, which could harm our operating results, harm our ability to operate our business and reduce the trading price of our stock. Risks Related to our Indebtedness Our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. We have a significant amount of debt and may incur substantial additional debt (including secured debt) in the future. The terms of our existing debt agreements limit, but do not prohibit, us from doing so. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $266 million of total long-term indebtedness (comprised primarily of $195 million of our 101/2% senior notes, net of unamortized discount and $70 million borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility), as described in our “Management’s Discussion and Analysis—Liquidity and Capital Resources” section of this Form 10-K. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate sufficient cash to service our debt or sufficient earnings to cover fixed charges in future years. Increases in outstanding debt above this level will intensify the related risks. Our substantial debt could have important consequences. In particular, it could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the industries in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants of our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds. Our debt agreements contain restrictive covenants that may limit our ability to respond to changes in market conditions or pursue business opportunities. The terms of the indenture governing our new notes and our Revolving Credit Facility contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to, among other things: • incur or guarantee additional debt; • pay dividends; 22 • repay subordinated debt prior to its maturity; • grant additional liens on our assets; • enter into transactions with our affiliates; • repurchase stock; • make certain investments or acquisitions of substantially all or a portion of another entity’s business assets; and • merge with another entity or dispose of our assets. For example, our Revolving Credit Facility limits the amount of our capital expenditures, including amounts we may spend on our Multi-client library. These capital expenditure limitations may limit our ability to add to our Multi-client library. In addition, our Revolving Credit Facility requires us, to maintain certain financial ratios and tests. The requirement that we comply with these provisions may materially adversely affect our ability to react to changes in market conditions, take advantage of business opportunities we believe to be desirable, obtain future financing, fund needed capital expenditures or withstand a continuing or future downturn in our business. If our lenders foreclose on their security interests in our assets, they will have the right to sell those assets in order to satisfy our obligations to them. Our obligations under our Revolving Credit Facility are, secured by a lien on substantially all of our assets including the equity interests in our material subsidiaries. In the event of foreclosure, liquidation, bankruptcy or other insolvency proceeding relating to us or our subsidiaries that have guaranteed our debt, holders of this secured indebtedness will have prior claims with respect to substantially all of our assets. There can be no assurance that we would receive any proceeds from a foreclosure sale of our assets that constitute collateral following the satisfaction of the secured lenders’ priority claims. If we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in our existing debt agreements and other current and future debt agreements, there could be a default under the terms of such agreements, which could result in an acceleration of repayment. If we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in our existing debt agreements or in future debt agreements, there could be a default under the terms of these agreements. Our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants, including meeting financial ratios and tests, may be affected by events beyond our control. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with these restrictions and covenants or meet such financial ratios and tests. In the event of a default under these agreements, lenders could terminate their commitments to lend or accelerate the loans and declare all amounts borrowed due and payable. Borrowings under other debt instruments that contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions may also be accelerated and become due and payable. If any of these events occur, our assets might not be sufficient to repay in full all of our outstanding indebtedness and we may be unable to find alternative financing. Even if we could obtain alternative financing, it might not be on terms that are favorable or acceptable to us. Additionally, we may not be able to amend our debt agreements or obtain needed waivers on satisfactory terms. To service our indebtedness, we require a significant amount of cash, and our ability to generate cash will depend on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, and to fund planned capital expenditures depends in part on our ability to generate cash in the future. This ability is, to a certain extent, subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure that we will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, which we will realize operating improvements on schedule or that future borrowing will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to service and repay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to satisfy our debt obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our indebtedness, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital. We cannot assure that any refinancing or debt restructuring would be possible or, if possible, would be completed on favorable or acceptable terms, that any assets could be sold or that, if sold, the timing of the sales and the amount of proceeds realized from those sales would be favorable to us or that additional financing could be obtained on acceptable terms. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets, such as those experienced since 2008, could adversely affect our ability to meet our liquidity needs or to refinance our indebtedness, including our ability to borrow under our Revolving Credit Facility. Banks that are party to our Revolving Credit Facility may not be able to meet their funding commitments to us if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from us and other borrowers within a short period of time. 23 Increases in interest rates would adversely affect our results of operations. Our Revolving Credit Facility is subject to floating interest rates which vary in line with movements in short-term interest rates. As a result, our interest expenses may increase significantly if short-term interest rates increase. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 