ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Economic and market conditions can adversely affect our revenue growth and operating results. The demand for our software products and services is affected by general economic conditions, competition, product acceptance and technology lifecycles. A general weakening of the economy and business conditions that affect information technology and the industries we serve could result in delays and decreases of customer purchases. It could also decrease our renewal rates for software maintenance, which is a significant component of our revenues. Our financial results depend, in significant part, upon the economic and market conditions in the manufacturing and hospitality industries. The hospitality industry is susceptible to downturns due to geopolitical and environmental concerns. Our hospitality business could be adversely affected if people refrain from traveling or our customers refrain from purchasing because of terrorism threats or political uncertainty. These concerns could also affect our hospitality and manufacturing operations around the world. Higher oil and gas prices around the world could impact consumer buying habits and reduce spending on travel and tourism. Natural disasters, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and tsunamis could have similar impacts upon both the manufacturing and hospitality markets in the regions directly or indirectly affected. The second half of calendar year 2008 brought a significant downturn to the economies of the United States and other areas of the world. In this uncertain economic environment, we have started to see a slowdown in purchasing decisions in certain areas of our business and this could have an adverse effect on our revenue growth. In addition, the economic downturn has negatively impacted foreign currency exchange rates. We conduct a significant portion of our business in countries outside of the United States utilizing local currencies. As a result, exchange rate fluctuations could have a significant impact on our operating results when local currencies are translated into U.S. Dollars for financial reporting purposes. The markets for some of our manufacturing products are mature and we may have difficulty generating significant new software license sales in those markets. The combination of a decline in the level of manufacturing activity in the United States and Western Europe and saturation due to market maturity of enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) software may limit new license sales growth in those geographies. In our manufacturing software business, we generate a majority of our revenue from support of our legacy FourthShift product. We are currently devoting more of our resources to new sales of the FourthShift Edition for SAP Business One product. Our FourthShift support revenues have been declining and we cannot provide assurance that revenue from license, support and consulting for FourthShift Edition for SAP Business One, or other products we may sell in this business, will replace those revenues. We are marketing our FourthShift Edition for SAP Business One product to small and mid-sized manufacturing companies and plants or divisions of multinational enterprises. This product was released in April 2005. While sales of this product have been slowly increasing, we have not yet sold substantial numbers of these products and cannot be certain that they will be widely accepted in the marketplace. Sales of FourthShift Edition are dependent upon continuation of agreements with, and cooperation from, SAP and termination of those agreements and cooperation could render continued sales difficult or impractical. As mentioned above, we are devoting significant resources to marketing FourthShift Edition for SAP Business One as one of our leading product offerings for small to mid-sized manufacturers. We have developed FourthShift Edition in accordance with a development agreement with SAP. We distribute FourthShift Edition directly, with copies of SAP Business One that we sell as an SAP Business One reseller, and in part through arrangements with other SAP Business One resellers. Termination of our agreements with SAP could end our ability to sell SAP Business One, limit our market for the product to existing SAP Business One users and terminate many of our distribution channels. Further, there is no obligation in our agreements for SAP to indefinitely continue to sell or promote its SAP Business One product, and to the extent it ceases those sales or support, or determines to emphasize a different product that serves the same market, our manufacturing business would be adversely impacted. 16 Table of Contents We have substantial international sales which are subject to the many risks of international operations. Our operations are international in scope, including locations in Europe, the Middle East and China. For the year ended September 30, 2008, approximately 38% of our revenue was derived from sales outside the United States. These sales are subject to many of the risks of international operations including: • higher operating costs in some regions; • currency controls and fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • changes in local market business requirements and increased cost and development time required to modify and translate our products for local markets; • inability to recruit qualified personnel in a specific country or region; • difficulty in establishing and maintaining relationships with local resellers, systems integrators or other third-party vendors; • differing foreign technical standards; • differing regulatory requirements; • export restrictions and controls, tariffs and other trade barriers; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights; • changes in political and economic conditions; • seasonal reductions in business activity; • potentially adverse tax assessments; and • terrorism, disease, or other events that may affect local economies and access to them, and that may particularly affect utilization of hotels and therefore our hospitality business. The sales cycle for our products makes it difficult to predict our operating results. Our customers often take significant time evaluating our products before licensing our software. The period between initial customer contact and purchase may vary from one month to more than one year. This is particularly true with purchases by larger customers of systems that are implemented at multiple plants or facilities. During the sales evaluation period, prospective customers may delay purchases, may decide not to purchase and may scale down proposed orders for reasons that we do not control and cannot predict including: • changes in economic conditions; • changes in customer personnel; • reduced demand for enterprise software solutions; • introduction of products by our competitors; • lower prices offered by our competitors; • changes in the budgets and purchasing priorities of our customers; • need for education of customer personnel; and • changes in the information systems of our customers. A significant portion of our sales typically occurs in the last month of a quarter, frequently in the last week or even the last days of the quarter. If these sales were delayed from one quarter to the next for any reason, our operating results could fluctuate dramatically. 17 Table of Contents We may be unable to retain or attract customers if we do not develop new products and enhance our current products in response to technological changes and competing products. We have been required, and will continue to be required, to adapt our products to rapidly changing standards for operating systems, databases and other technologies. We will be unable to compete effectively if we are unable to: • maintain and enhance our technological capabilities to correspond to these changing environments and standards; • develop and market products and services that meet changing customer needs; and • anticipate or respond to technological changes on a cost-effective and timely basis. A significant portion of our research and development resources are devoted to product upgrades that address new systems and maintenance requirements or add functionality to our products. The remainder of our research and development resources are devoted to new products that we cannot be certain will be widely accepted. Our revenue is largely dependent on renewal of maintenance agreements by our customers. We generate substantial recurring revenue from our customer support program and other software maintenance services, most of which renew annually at the customer’s option. For the year ended September 30, 2008, we generated $55.7 million, or approximately 56%, of our total revenue from software maintenance and support. The level of our maintenance revenue is directly related to the number of our software products that are in active use by customers. If our customers stop using our products, if we are unable to maintain the rate of addition of new customers, or if our customers determine that they cannot afford maintenance, our maintenance revenue can be expected to decline. We expect that maintenance revenue from legacy products for which we have decreased or curtailed development funding will decline over time. Further, we have announced our intent to discontinue providing standard support services for some of our hospitality legacy applications in fiscal 2009. We intend to work with our legacy customers to make it advantageous to migrate to our current offerings, but there is no guarantee they will do so. We may be required to delay revenue recognition into future periods, which could adversely impact our operating results. We may be required to defer revenue recognition due to several factors, including situations where: • our license agreements include applications that are under development or have other undelivered elements which may be essential or may not have vendor specific objective evidence of fair value; • we deliver services which could delay product delivery or acceptance; or • a third-party vendor, whose technology is incorporated into our software products, delays delivery of the final software product to the customer. We are occasionally unable to negotiate contract terms that permit revenue recognition at the time of delivery or even as work on the project is completed. A number of our competitors are well-established software companies that have advantages over us. We face competition from a number of software companies that have advantages over us due to their larger customer bases, greater name recognition, longer operating and product development history, greater international presence and substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources. These competitors include well-established companies such as Microsoft Corporation, Oracle Corporation and Infor Global Solutions, Inc. In our manufacturing business, we also compete with a variety of more specialized software and services vendors, including Epicor Software Corporation, QAD, Inc., and SYSPRO Impact Software, Inc. In our hospitality business, we compete with Micros Systems, Inc. and a number of smaller suppliers of property management systems. 18 Table of Contents Changes in the terms on which we license technologies from third-party vendors could result in the loss of potential revenues or increased costs or delays in the production and improvement of our products. We license third-party software products that we incorporate into, or resell with, our own software products. We have reseller relationships with a number of other companies that allow us to resell their technology with our products. Technology licenses such as these are subject to periodic renewal and may include minimum sales requirements. A failure to renew, or early termination of, these technology licenses could adversely impact our business. Changes in regulation and industry practice, including particularly regulation and practice dealing with security and privacy, could cause us additional expense. Recent legislation has increased the responsibilities of software companies and their clients regarding financial security, identity theft and privacy. In particular, the credit card industry has adopted credit card security guidelines intended to help minimize identity theft and credit card fraud. Our current hospitality technology solutions have been certified as meeting the Payment Card Industry (PCI) Data Security Standard (DSS) and Payment Application Best Practices (PABP) for credit card processing, helping to ensure the security of customer information. As a result of receiving PABP validation, we are listed on the Visa web site as a PCI DSS compliant service provider. Even with this certification, however, we cannot guarantee that our products and services are completely secure from unauthorized access. Additionally, our customers may not effectively implement all of the updated security features that we introduce or make all necessary changes to their operating procedures, or that our customers will implement other required security measures. It is possible that, regardless of our efforts to comply with credit card company requirements or to implement sound security measures through our software code, we could be subject to claims from our customers, or their clients, if unauthorized access to credit card data occurs through the use of our software. If our products infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties, and we are sued for infringement or cannot obtain licenses to these rights on commercially acceptable terms, our business would suffer. Many participants in the technology industry have an increasing number of patents and patent applications, and have demonstrated a readiness to take legal action based on allegations of patent and other intellectual property infringement. As the number and functionality of our products increase, we believe that we may become increasingly subject to the risk of infringement claims. If infringement claims are brought against us, these assertions could distract management and we may have to expend potentially significant funds and resources to defend or settle such claims. If we are found to infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, we could be forced to pay significant license fees or damages. We have limited protection of our intellectual property and, if we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property, we may not be able to compete. We rely on a combination of contract, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws to protect our intellectual property. Existing copyright laws afford only limited protection. In general, we do not release the source code of our products, although we may permit customers to obtain access to our source code through a source code escrow arrangement. This access to our source code may increase the likelihood of misappropriation or other misuse of our intellectual property. In addition, the laws of some countries in which our software products are or may be licensed do not protect our software products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States of America. Defending our software products and intellectual property rights could be costly. Our success depends on our ability to continue to retain and attract qualified personnel. We believe that our success depends upon our ability to continue to train, retain, effectively manage and attract highly skilled technical, managerial, sales and marketing personnel. If our efforts in these areas are not successful, our costs may increase, development and sales efforts may be hindered and our customer service 19 Table of Contents may be degraded. There is intense competition for personnel in the software industry. From time to time, we may experience difficulties in locating sufficient highly qualified candidates in desired geographic locations or with required industry-specific expertise. We may need additional capital to make future acquisitions. We believe that our cash balances, together with cash from operations and available borrowings under our credit agreement, will be sufficient to meet our cash requirements through September 30, 2009 and beyond. However, we may need or choose to raise capital for various strategic or operational reasons including acquisitions. There can be no assurance we will be able to raise capital and the pricing and terms of any capital could be unfavorable to current stockholders. The adoption of new accounting standards or interpretations could adversely impact our results of operations. Our implementation of new accounting rules and interpretations or compliance with changes in existing accounting rules could adversely affect our balance sheet or results of operations, or cause unanticipated fluctuations in our results of operations in future periods. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results which could have a material adverse effect on our business or operating results. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and is important in helping to prevent financial fraud. If we are unable to achieve and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. We have discovered in the past, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal controls that need improvement. Any failure to implement new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Beginning with our fiscal year 2007, we were required to comply with the provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our management has conducted the required internal control evaluations and concluded that our internal controls over financial reporting were effective as of September 30, 2008 and 2007. As of September 30, 2008, management’s conclusion was not subject to attestation by our independent registered public accounting firm pursuant to temporary rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission that permit us to provide only management’s report in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In the future, if our management is not able to come to a conclusion that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is required but unable to attest to management’s conclusion, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information. The failure to successfully and timely implement an upgrade of our corporate financial systems could harm our business. In 2006, we commenced implementation of an upgrade to our current financial systems. Certain systems were upgraded in 2007 and the upgrade of the remaining systems was substantially completed in 2008. These upgrades will, among other things, increase the automation of, and we believe enable greater internal control and productivity for, our financial processes, as well as enable centralization of business functions within the company and improve our data integrity, controls, and the use of our people and systems. Failure to successfully implement and maintain these systems in a timely, effective and efficient manner could result in the disruption of our operations, the inability to comply with Sarbanes-Oxley obligations and the inability to report our financial results in a timely manner. 20 Table of Contents Our substantial level of indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness that requires significant interest payments. Our indebtedness could have important consequences to us, including the following: • limiting our ability to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes; • vulnerability to fluctuations in interest rates, as a substantial portion of our indebtedness bears variable rates of interest; • reducing our flexibility in planning for, or responding to, changing conditions in our business and our industry; • limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; and • making us more vulnerable to general economic downturns and adverse developments in our business. We require a significant amount of cash to service our indebtedness and our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to pay or refinance our indebtedness, and fund working capital and planned capital expenditures, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. Our ability to generate cash, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory, legislative and other factors that are beyond our control. Our business may not generate cash flow from operations that is adequate to repay our indebtedness, or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we cannot service our indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as refinancing the indebtedness, seeking additional equity, selling assets or reducing or delaying development, capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions or investments. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness or locate additional equity investment on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Our credit agreement with Wells Fargo Foothill imposes significant operating and financial restrictions on us, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking some corporate actions. Our credit agreement imposes restrictions on our ability to finance operations and capital needs, respond to changing business or economic conditions and to engage in other transactions or business activities that may be important to our growth strategy. These restrictions will, among other things, limit our ability to: • subject to minor exceptions, incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; • pay dividends or make other distributions (except as required under our outstanding preferred stock); • repurchase our stock; • make investments; • sell or otherwise dispose of assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries, except inventory in the ordinary course; • create liens; • consolidate, merge or liquidate; • change the general nature of our business; • prepay, redeem or repurchase debt; and • enter into transactions with affiliates. 21 Table of Contents In addition, our credit agreement requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests. Covenants in our credit agreement also require us to use a portion of the proceeds we receive in issuances of debt or equity and some asset sales to repay outstanding borrowings under our credit agreement. While we are currently in compliance with these requirements, we cannot provide assurance that these covenants will not adversely affect our ability to fulfill our capital needs, to pursue business opportunities or to plan for or react to market conditions. A breach of any of those covenants, or our inability to maintain the required financial ratios, could result in a default. If a default occurs, the lenders could elect to declare the indebtedness, together with accrued interest and other fees, immediately due and payable and proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. We have pledged all of our assets, including all of our intellectual property and all of the shares in our subsidiaries, to secure our obligations under the credit agreement and a foreclosure on those assets would substantially disrupt, or cause liquidation, of our business. The Purchase Agreements relating to our Series C-1 and Series D Preferred Stock and the provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation establishing the terms and preferences of our various series of preferred stock, may limit our ability to pursue new financing transactions and may force us to consider sale transactions at times that are not favorable. The Purchase Agreements under which we sold our Series C-1 and Series D Preferred Stock contain covenants that impose restrictions on our operations that are similar to the restrictions contained in our credit agreement. These covenants prohibit us from, among other things: • selling a controlling interest in our voting securities, selling substantially all of our assets, or merging with an entity in a manner that effects our ownership through August 14, 2009 unless the holders of preferred stock have been paid 175% of the purchase price of the preferred stock; • incurring indebtedness unless certain financial ratios are exceeded; • entering into transactions with affiliates; • selling any interest in a subsidiary; • materially altering our business; or • completing an acquisition. In addition, these agreements require us, among other things, to • maintain exchange listing; • provide certain financial information; • allow the holders to purchase a pro rata portion of any securities that we sell privately; and • appoint a representative of the purchasers to our board. If we fail to comply with these covenants, if we fail to pay dividends on the preferred stock, or if the preferred stock remains outstanding seven years after it is issued, and subject to cure provisions, the purchasers have the right to cause us to retain an investment banker to assist us in conducting a sale of SoftBrands. Although any such sale would be subject to the exercise of the fiduciary obligations of our board, the retention of a banker could cause such a sale to occur at a time when it is not advantageous, or cause publicity that damages our relationships with customers, vendors, and employees. 22 Table of Contents We have adopted anti-takeover defenses that could make it difficult for another company to acquire control of SoftBrands. Provisions in our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, our stockholder rights plan and Delaware law could make it more difficult for other companies to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. Our charter documents contain the following provisions which may inhibit an acquisition: • advance notification procedures for matters to be brought before stockholder meetings; • limitation on who may call stockholder meetings; • prohibition on stockholder action by written consent; • a classified or “staggered” board of directors; and • the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock without a stockholder vote. Further, our stockholder rights plan could delay, deter or prevent any potential bidder from acquiring more than 10% of our voting stock without the agreement of our Board of Directors. Because we are incorporated under Delaware law, a stockholder who acquires more than 15%, but less than 85%, of our stock may have difficulty acquiring us during the three years after the date of the stock acquisition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 