ITEM 1A. Risk Factors We may need to raise capital in order to support our operations, which capital may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. As of September 29, 2006, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $10.7 million and short-term debt of approximately $28.6 million. We may need to raise capital from the sale of debt or equity securities or other sources in order to support our operations. We may not be able to obtain this capital on acceptable terms, or at all. If we issue additional equity or convertible debt securities to raise capital, your percentage ownership of Aviza will be reduced, and you may experience significant dilution. In addition, new investors in Aviza may demand rights, preferences or privileges that differ from, or are senior to, yours, including warrants in addition to the securities purchased and protection against future dilutive transactions. We are substantially leveraged, which could limit our ability to adjust our business to respond to competitive pressures and to obtain sufficient funds to satisfy our future manufacturing capacity and research and development needs. We have significant indebtedness. As of September 29, 2006, we had total debt of approximately $34.9 million, of which approximately $28.6 million was short-term. Our indebtedness could have serious consequences for our business, including limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate or other purposes. Our ability to pay the principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness and to make planned expenditures will depend on our future operating performance, which could be affected by changes in economic conditions and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. Our failure to comply with the covenants and other provisions contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness could result in events of default under these agreements, which in turn could permit our lenders to accelerate payment of our indebtedness. If we are at any time unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to service our indebtedness, we may be required to attempt to renegotiate the terms of our indebtedness, refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness or obtain additional financing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully renegotiate or refinance our indebtedness or obtain any additional financing on acceptable terms, or at all. 14 We have incurred losses since our inception, and we may never be able to achieve profitability. We incurred net losses of $14.7 million, $16.0 million and $19.7 million for the fiscal years ended September 29, 2006 (fiscal 2006), September 30, 2005 (fiscal 2005) and the fiscal period October 7, 2003 through September 24, 2004 (fiscal 2004), respectively. As a result, we will need to increase our sales and reduce our costs in order to achieve profitability. However, we may never generate sufficient net sales or reduce our costs sufficiently to achieve profitability. Even if we achieve profitability, we may not have sustainable profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. If we are unable to achieve and sustain profitability, we may be forced to implement expense reduction measures, including selling assets, consolidating operations, reducing our workforce or delaying, cancelling or reducing certain system development, marketing or other operational programs, any of which could harm our business. We receive most of our net sales from a small number of customers, and the loss of, or a significant reduction or fluctuation in, orders from those customers could seriously harm our business. For our fiscal year ended September 29, 2006, approximately 35% of our net sales were attributable to two customers and approximately 74% of our net sales were attributable to our top 10 customers. Winbond Electronics Corp. and Inotera Memories, Inc. accounted for 24% and 11% of our net sales in fiscal 2006, respectively. For our fiscal year ended September 30, 2005, approximately 69% of our net sales were attributable to three customers and approximately 84% of our net sales were attributable to our top 10 customers. Inotera Memories, Inc., Infineon Technologies AG and Winbond Electronics Corp. accounted for 43%, 15% and 11% of our net sales in fiscal 2005, respectively. We expect to continue to receive a substantial portion of our net sales from a small number of customers for the foreseeable future. If our largest customers delay, cancel or do not place orders, we may not be able to replace those orders with new orders. As we expect to configure our systems to customer specifications, changing, rescheduling or cancelling orders may result in significant non-recoverable costs. The loss of, or a significant reduction in, orders from any of our major customers could seriously harm our business. Claims or litigation regarding our intellectual property rights could seriously harm our business or require us to incur significant costs. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the semiconductor equipment industry involving patents and other intellectual property rights. Infringement claims have been asserted against us and may be asserted against us in the future, and we may not be able to defend ourselves against such claims successfully. Any claim that our systems infringe the proprietary rights of others would force us to defend ourselves and possibly our customers against the alleged infringement. These claims and any resulting lawsuits, if successful, could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidate our proprietary rights. These lawsuits, regardless of their outcome, would likely be time-consuming and expensive to resolve and would divert management’s time and attention. Any potential intellectual property litigation could force us to do one or more of the following: · lose or forfeit our proprietary rights; · stop manufacturing or selling systems that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; · obtain from the owner of the infringed intellectual property right a license to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms or at all and may involve significant royalty payments; · pay damages and attorneys’ fees in some circumstances; or · redesign those systems that use the challenged intellectual property. If we are forced to take any of these actions, our business could be severely harmed. 15 On April 11, 2006, IPS, Ltd. filed a lawsuit against us in the United States District Court for the Central District of California. The complaint alleges that we improperly used IPS's confidential information to develop our Celsior single-wafer processing type atomic layer deposition technology. We deny the claim. The complaint is for unspecified monetary damages, injunctive relief and an order rescinding the settlement and distributor agreements that we and IPS entered into in May 2004 in settlement of a prior lawsuit that IPS filed against ASML U.S., Inc. and us in March 2004 relating to assets that we acquired from ASML in October 2003. We intend to contest the lawsuit vigorously. Discovery in the litigation has not yet begun because the parties disagree about the proper forum in which to resolve the claims asserted by IPS. On May 12, 2006, we filed with the United States District Court for the Northern District of California a petition to compel arbitration in Santa Clara County, California. On August 3, 2006, Judge Ware of the Northern District of California found that one or more of the claims asserted by IPS was likely arbitrable and ordered the parties to arbitration to determine which claims were properly subject to arbitration. On October 23, 2006, Judge Cooper of the Central District of California stayed proceedings pending resolution of the question of arbitrability. The parties are currently in the process of filing their pleadings in the arbitration. Although we believe that we have complied with the settlement and distributor agreements and that the allegations contained in IPS’s complaint are without merit, a negative outcome could harm our business. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and unpredictable. Our business depends upon the capital expenditures of semiconductor manufacturers, which in turn depend on the current anticipated market demand for ICs and, in particular, the DRAM segment of the semiconductor industry, which accounted for a majority of our net sales for the year ended September 29, 2006. The semiconductor industry has historically been cyclical due to sudden changes in manufacturing capacity. These changes in capacity have affected the timing and amounts of our customers’ capital equipment purchases and investments in technology, and continue to affect our orders, net sales, gross margins and results of operations. During periods of decreasing demand for IC manufacturing equipment, we must be able to align our cost structure appropriately with prevailing market conditions and motivate and retain key employees effectively. Conversely, during periods of increasing demand, we must have sufficient manufacturing capacity and inventory to meet customer demand and must be able to attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified individuals. If we are unable to align our cost structure with business conditions in a timely manner and manage our resources and production capacity effectively, it could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because we lack long-term purchase commitments from our customers, our net sales and inventory could fluctuate from period to period, which could harm our results of operations. We generally do not enter into long-term purchase contracts with our customers. Our business is characterized by short-term purchase orders and shipment schedules and our customers may cancel or delay their orders without penalty. As a result, it is difficult for us to forecast our net sales and to determine the appropriate levels of inventory that we need to carry in order to meet future demand. In addition, because we do not have long-term contracts with our customers, we forecast our net sales and plan our production and inventory levels based upon the demand forecasts of our customers, which are highly unpredictable and can fluctuate substantially. This could lead to increased inventory levels and increased carrying costs and risk of excess or obsolete inventory due to unanticipated reductions in purchases by our customers. Our deferred revenue from sales of our systems that constitute “new technology” and our backlog of customer orders may not result in future net sales. We defer revenue and any associated profit from the sale of newly introduced systems that are subject to contractual customer acceptance provisions and substantive installation obligations, which we refer to as “new technology,” until our customer has acknowledged its acceptance of the system or the installation work is completed. If the system does not meet the agreed specifications and the customer refuses to accept the system, we will not realize the deferred revenue and any associated deferred profit and we may be required to refund any cash payments previously received from the customer, which may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 We schedule the production of our systems based in part upon our backlog. Due to possible customer changes in delivery schedules and cancellations of orders, our backlog at any particular date will not necessarily be indicative of actual sales for any future period. In addition, while we evaluate each customer order on a case-by-case basis to determine qualification for inclusion in backlog, we cannot assure you that amounts that we include in backlog will ultimately result in future sales. As a result, our backlog may not be a reliable indication of our future net sales. A reduction in backlog during any particular period, or the failure of our backlog to result in future net sales, could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations, and cause our net sales to fall below our expectations and the expectations of analysts and investors. We have long sales cycles for our systems, which may cause our results of operations to fluctuate from period to period. Our systems are technologically complex. Our prospective customers generally must commit significant resources to test and evaluate our systems and to install and integrate them into their manufacturing lines. In addition, our customers often require a significant number of system presentations and demonstrations, in some instances evaluating equipment on site, before reaching a sufficient level of confidence in our systems’ performance and compatibility with their requirements to place an order. As a result, our sales process is often subject to delays associated with lengthy approval processes that typically accompany the design and testing of new systems. Our sales cycles often have lasted for many months or even years and require us to invest significant resources. In addition, we may incur significant costs in supporting evaluation equipment at customers’ facilities, and orders expected in one quarter could shift to another quarter because of the timing of our customers’ purchase decisions. All of these factors could cause our results of operations to fluctuate from period to period. Our results of operations may suffer if we fail to manage our inventory effectively. We need to manage our inventory of component parts, work-in-process and finished goods effectively to meet customer delivery demands at an acceptable risk and cost. Our customers are increasingly requiring very short lead times for delivery, which may require us to purchase and carry additional inventory. For both the inventories that support the manufacture of our systems and our spare parts inventories, if the customer demand we anticipate does not materialize in a timely manner, we will incur increased carrying costs and some inventory could become obsolete or otherwise unfit for sale, resulting in write-offs which would harm our results of operations. Conversely, if customer demand for our systems materializes more quickly than we anticipate, our inventories may be insufficient, which could result in lost sales opportunities that could harm our results of operations. We will not be able to compete effectively if we fail to address the technology needs of our customers. We operate in a highly competitive environment, and our future success is dependent upon our ability, in a timely and cost-effective manner, to: · develop and market new systems and technologies; · improve our existing systems and technologies; · expand into or develop equipment solutions for new markets for IC products; · achieve market acceptance and accurately forecast demand for our systems and technologies; · achieve cost efficiencies across our system offerings; · qualify new or improved systems for volume manufacturing with our customers; and · lower our customers’ cost of ownership. 17 We may not be able to forecast or respond accurately to the technological trends in the semiconductor industry or respond to specific product announcements by competitors that may be developing technologies and systems that are more effective or that achieve more widespread acceptance than ours. We also may not be able to develop strategic alliances with equipment and materials suppliers to the semiconductor industry to produce next-generation films and processes. In addition, we may incur substantial costs to ensure the functionality and reliability of our current and future systems. If our newly developed systems are unreliable or do not meet our customers’ expectations, then we could experience reduced orders, higher manufacturing costs, delays in collecting accounts receivable or additional service and warranty expenses. Our failure to meet our customers’ technology needs and other demands will impair our ability to compete effectively, which in turn could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our competitors have greater financial resources and greater name recognition and therefore may compete more successfully. We face competition or potential competition from many companies that have greater resources than we have. If we are unable to compete effectively with these companies, our market share may decline and our business could be harmed. Virtually all of our principal competitors are substantially larger than we are and most of them have broader product lines than we do. These competitors have well-established reputations in the markets in which we compete, greater experience with high-volume manufacturing, broader name recognition, substantially larger customer bases and substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than we do. We also face potential competition from new market entrants, including established manufacturers in other segments of the semiconductor capital equipment market who may decide to diversify and develop and market products that compete with our system offerings. Semiconductor manufacturers are typically loyal to their existing semiconductor equipment suppliers, which may make it difficult for us to obtain new customers. Because semiconductor manufacturers must make substantial investments to install and integrate capital equipment into their semiconductor fabrication facilities, they tend to choose semiconductor equipment manufacturers based on established relationships, product compatibility and proven system performance. Once a semiconductor manufacturer selects a particular vendor’s capital equipment, the manufacturer generally relies for a significant period of time upon the equipment from this vendor of choice for the specific production line application. To do otherwise creates risk for the manufacturer because manufacturing a semiconductor requires many process steps and a fabrication facility will contain many different types of machines that must work cohesively to produce products that meet the customers’ specifications. If any piece of equipment fails to perform as expected, the customer could incur significant costs related to defective products, production line downtime or low production yields. Since most new fabrication facilities are similar to existing ones, semiconductor manufacturers tend to continue using equipment that has a proven track record. Based on our experience with our major customers, we have observed that once a particular piece of equipment is selected from a vendor, the customer is likely to continue purchasing that same piece of equipment from the vendor for similar applications in the future. Broadening our market share remains difficult due to choices made by customers that continue to be influenced by pre-existing bases installed by competing vendors. As a result, our ability to obtain new customers and additional orders may be limited. A semiconductor manufacturer frequently will attempt to consolidate its other capital equipment requirements with the same vendor. As a result, we may face narrow windows of opportunity to be selected as the “vendor of choice” by potential new customers. It may be difficult for us to sell to a particular customer for a significant period of time once that customer selects a competitor’s product, and we may not be successful in obtaining broader acceptance of our systems and technology. If we are not able to achieve broader market acceptance of our systems and technology, it could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 We depend upon sole suppliers for certain key components. Substantially all of our net sales have come from the sale of systems that contain key components that are available only from a single source or limited sources. As a result, we depend on a number of sole suppliers for key components used in the manufacturing of our systems. If we are unable to obtain timely delivery of sufficient quantities of these components, we will be unable to manufacture systems to meet customer demand on a timely basis. Most significantly, certain systems are designed around automation modules supplied by sole suppliers. Due to the high cost of these modules, we keep very few in inventory. Although we have never been unable to manufacture or ship a system due to an inability to obtain a component sourced from a sole supplier, if a sole supplier fails to deliver the component on a timely basis, delivery of certain systems could be delayed. If a sole supplier is unable to deliver any such components for a prolonged period of time, we may have to redesign certain systems. We cannot assure you that we will be able to do so, or that customers will adopt the redesigned systems. Warranty claims in excess of our projections could seriously harm our business. We offer a warranty on all of our systems. If our customers make claims under our warranties that exceed our estimates of the cost of our warranties, it could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we deliver systems with defects, our credibility may be harmed, sales and market acceptance of our systems may decrease and we may incur liabilities associated with those defects. Our systems are complex and sometimes have contained errors, defects and bugs when introduced. If we deliver systems with errors, defects or bugs, our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our systems could be harmed. Further, if our systems contain errors, defects or bugs, we may be required to expend significant capital and resources to alleviate these problems. Defects could also lead to commercial or product liability as a result of lawsuits against us or against our customers. We have agreed to product liability indemnities with some of our customers, and our product and commercial liability insurance policies currently provide only limited coverage per claim. In the event of a successful product liability or commercial claim, we could be obligated to pay damages that may not be covered by insurance or that significantly exceed our insurance coverage. Our employment costs in the short-term are fixed to a large extent, and therefore any unexpected shortfalls in net sales could harm our results of operations. Our operating expense levels are based in significant part on our headcount, which generally is driven by our long-term net sales goals. For a variety of reasons, particularly the high cost and disruption of layoffs and the costs of recruiting and training, our headcount in the short-term is fixed to a large extent. As a result, we may be unable to reduce our employment costs in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfalls in net sales, which could harm our results of operations. Our high spending levels on research and development and our need to maintain a high level of customer service and support could harm our results of operations. In order to remain competitive, we need to maintain high levels of investment in research and development, marketing and customer service, while at the same time controlling our operating expenses. The industry in which we operate is characterized by the need for continued investment in research and development as well as a high level of worldwide customer service and support. As a result of our need to maintain spending levels in these areas, our results of operations could be harmed if our net sales fall below expectations. In addition, because of the emphasis that we place on research and development and technological innovation, our operating expenses may increase further in the future, which could harm our results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources to make a high level of investment in research and development, marketing and customer service while controlling our operating expenses or that our systems will be viewed as competitive as a result of technological advances by our competitors or changes in semiconductor processing technology. Any such competitive pressures may require us to reduce prices significantly or result in lost customer orders, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 A disruption of our manufacturing operations could harm our business. Although we outsource the manufacturing for certain of our systems or sub-assemblies to third parties, we produce most of our systems at our manufacturing facilities in Scotts Valley, California and Newport, South Wales, U.K. In the event of a disruption of operations at our facilities, our third-party manufacturers would not be able to make up the capacity loss. Our manufacturing operations could be subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including natural disasters, work stoppages, operational facility constraints and terrorism. Any such disruption could cause delays in shipments of systems to our customers, result in cancellation of customer orders or loss of customers and seriously harm our business. We outsource manufacturing and logistics activities to third-party service providers, which decreases our control over the performance of these functions. We have already outsourced certain manufacturing and spare parts logistics functions to third-party service providers, and we may outsource more of those functions in the future. While we expect to achieve operational flexibility and cost savings as a result of this outsourcing, outsourcing has a number of risks and reduces our control over the performance of the outsourced functions. Significant performance problems by these third-party service providers could result in cost overruns, delayed deliveries, shortages, quality issues or other problems that could result in significant customer dissatisfaction and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If for any reason one or more of these third-party service providers becomes unable or unwilling to continue to provide services of acceptable quality, at acceptable costs and in a timely manner, our ability to deliver our systems or spare parts to our customers could be severely impaired. We would quickly need to identify and qualify substitute service providers or increase our internal capacity, which could be expensive, time consuming and difficult, and could result in unforeseen operations problems. Substitute service providers might not be available or, if available, might be unwilling or unable to offer services on acceptable terms. If customer demand for our systems increases, we may be unable to secure sufficient additional capacity from our current service providers on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Our requirements are expected to represent a small portion of the total capacities of our third-party service providers, and they may preferentially allocate capacity to other customers, even during periods of high demand for our systems. In addition, these third-party service providers could suffer financial difficulties or disruptions in their operations due to causes beyond our control. The semiconductor industry is global and has expanded within Asia. We have penetrated this market with some of our systems. If we are unable to continue to penetrate this market with those systems and penetrate this market with our other systems, our business could be harmed. The percentage of worldwide semiconductor production that is based in Asia is growing more rapidly than in other regions. Although we derived approximately 64%, 65% and 46% of our net sales for fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, from our sales to customers located in the Asia Pacific region, our brand recognition in the region is limited. In order to grow our business, we need to penetrate the region with the addition of new customers, new systems and the expansion of our relationships with our existing customers. We have traditionally sold our systems primarily through our direct sales force. Although we have a direct sales force and local representatives in the Asia Pacific region, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue penetrating markets in this region. Our failure to continue to penetrate these markets, or failure to attract the additional personnel necessary to service new and existing customers, may harm our competitive position and our future business prospects. 20 If we are unable to hire and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel, our results of operations could be negatively affected. Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, technical, sales and support personnel for our operations on a worldwide basis. We believe that our success is particularly dependent on the contributions of the principal members of our management, operations and engineering staff, including Jerauld Cutini, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Patrick O’Connor, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and John Macneil, our Executive Vice President and Chief Technical Officer. We do not have long-term employment contracts with these or any of our other key personnel, and their knowledge of our business and industry would be extremely difficult for us to replace. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, particularly in the San Francisco Bay Area, where our headquarters is located, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel. Our results of operations could be negatively affected by our loss of key executives or employees or our inability to attract and retain skilled executives and employees. Changes in accounting standards for equity-based compensation may adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to attract and retain employees. Our adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) required us to expense all equity-based compensation that we provide to our employees and directors beginning with our fiscal quarter ended December 30, 2005. The environment for skilled employees that are knowledgeable about our systems and services is a competitive one, and we believe that equity-based compensation is an important part of the overall compensation that we offer to attract and retain such employees. SFAS No. 123(R) has adversely affected and will continue to adversely affect our results of operations. If we decide to decrease the amounts of equity-based compensation that we offer to our current and prospective employees on account of the related expenses that we have to incur as a result of SFAS No. 123(R), it could impair our ability to attract and retain employees. Our ability to compete could be jeopardized by our inability to protect our intellectual property rights from challenges by third parties. Our success and ability to compete depend in large part upon protecting proprietary technology. We have relied on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, non-disclosure and other contractual agreements and technical measures to protect our proprietary rights. We cannot assure you that patents will be issued on pending patent applications or that competitors will not be able legitimately to ascertain proprietary information embedded in our systems that is not covered by patent or copyright. If this happens, we may not be able to prevent the competitor from using this information. In addition, if we assert patent rights against a competitor’s product, we cannot assure you that any claim in any patent will be sufficiently broad nor, if sufficiently broad, that the patent will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. We may not have sufficient resources to establish, monitor and protect our rights. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our business. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property may be less effective in some foreign countries where intellectual property rights are not as well protected as in the United States. We derived a significant portion of our fiscal 2006 net sales from sales in foreign countries, including certain countries in Asia such as Singapore, Taiwan, Japan, Malaysia, China and Korea. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States, and many U.S. companies have encountered substantial problems in protecting their proprietary rights against infringement in such countries, some of which are countries in which we have sold and in which we expect to continue to sell systems. For example, Taiwan and China are not signatories to the Patent Cooperation Treaty, which is designed to specify rules and methods for defending intellectual property internationally. In Taiwan and China, the publication of a patent prior to its filing would invalidate the ability of a company to obtain a patent. Similarly, in contrast to the United States where the contents of patent applications remain confidential during the patent prosecution process, the contents of a patent application are published upon filing which provides competitors an advanced view of the 21 contents of patent applications prior to the establishment of patent rights. There is a risk that our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate in these countries. Our competitors in these countries may independently develop similar technology or duplicate our systems. If we fail to protect our intellectual property adequately in those countries, it would be easier for our competitors to sell competing products in those countries. We will be required to spend significant time, money and other resources to ensure and determine that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. If we are unable to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, the value of your investment in Aviza could decline. As currently in effect, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, requires that beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ending in September 2007, we must furnish a report on our internal control over financial reporting. However, the SEC has proposed extending the date by which non-accelerated filers, such as Aviza, must begin furnishing these reports. This report will contain an assessment by our management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and an opinion by our independent registered public accounting firm as to our management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of fiscal 2004, and Trikon, with which we completed our merger transaction in December 2005, restated its financial statements in May 2005 as a result of Trikon’s identification of errors which resulted in material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting. As a result of our and Trikon’s identified material weaknesses, we face a significant challenge in ensuring our operations are designed in a manner that is consistent with the framework of internal control established by the Committee of Sponsoring Organization of the Treadway Commission. Our internal control over financial reporting may not be considered effective if, among other things: · any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting exist; · we fail to evaluate key controls in a timely fashion; or · we fail to remediate assessed deficiencies. If management asserts that our internal control over financial reporting is ineffective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm expresses an adverse opinion on management’s assessment or that our internal control over financial reporting is ineffective, the value of your investment in Aviza could decline. Under current law, we will not be required to furnish a report on our internal control over financial reporting until December 2007, and we may not be required to furnish a report on our internal control over financial reporting until December 2008. We are not currently required to furnish a report on our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to the SEC’s rules under Section 404 as part of the Annual Reports that we file on Form 10-K. As currently in effect, these rules will apply to us when we file our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ending in September 2007, which we are required to file in December 2007. However, the SEC has proposed extending the date by which non-accelerated filers, such as Aviza, must begin furnishing these reports. If this extension goes into effect, we will not be required to furnish a report on our internal control over financial reporting until we file our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ending in September 2008, which we are required to file in December 2008. As a result, we cannot assure you that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, and you will not have a report from us to that effect until December 2007 at the earliest, and perhaps not until December 2008, and our independent registered public accounting firm may not have to provide their attestation on our management’s report until December 2009. 22 Our results of operations could be negatively affected by currency fluctuations. Although our net sales are generally denominated in U.S. dollars and we report our results of operations in U.S. dollars, our Newport, South Wales operations are based in the United Kingdom and most of the operating expenses attributable to those operations are incurred in British pounds. As a result, a significant portion of our costs are subject to currency fluctuations. Accordingly, if the British pound increases in value against the U.S. dollar, our operating expenses as a percentage of our net sales will increase and our gross margins will decline. In addition, our sales in Japan and other foreign service sales are denominated in local currency. As a result, fluctuations in those local currencies could also have an impact on our results of operations. Because we have significant operations outside of the United States, we are subject to political, economic and other international conditions that could increase our operating expenses and the regulation of our systems and make it more difficult for us to maintain operating and financial controls. We have manufacturing facilities in Newport, South Wales, U.K., and sales and service offices in many other countries. In addition, approximately 64% of our net sales for fiscal 2006 were derived from sales in the Asia Pacific region. In recent years, Asian economies have been highly volatile and recessionary, resulting in significant fluctuations in local currencies and other instabilities. Instabilities in Asian economies may continue and recur in the future or instability could occur in other foreign economies, any of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our exposure to the business risks presented by Asian economies and other foreign economies will increase to the extent we continue to expand our global operations. Our international operations will continue to subject us to a number of risks, including: · longer sales cycles; · multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations; · protectionist laws and business practices that favor local companies; · price and currency exchange rates and controls; · difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; · travel and transportation difficulties resulting from actual or perceived health risks, such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome and Avian Influenza, commonly referred to as SARS and Bird Flu, respectively; and · political and economic instability. Any of these risks could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations are subject to health and safety and environmental laws that may expose us to liabilities for noncompliance. We are subject to a variety of governmental regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge, handling, manufacture and disposal of all materials present at, or are output from, our facilities, including toxic or other hazardous chemical byproducts of the manufacturing processes. We are also subject to governmental regulations affecting the content, reuse, recycling, distribution and labeling of systems and parts containing hazardous materials. Environmental claims, or failure to comply with any present or future regulations, could result in significant costs to remediate, the assessment of damages or imposition of fines, the suspension of production of certain systems or the cessation of operations. New regulations could require the purchase of costly equipment or the incurrence of other significant expenses. Failure to control the use or adequately restrict the discharge of hazardous substances could subject us to future liabilities, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. 23 We own and operate a facility located in Scotts Valley, California, or the Scotts Valley Site, which is currently subject to an Administrative Order on Consent, or Consent Order, dated as of July 16, 1991 entered into by Watkins-Johnson Company (now WJ Communications, Inc.), a prior owner of the Scotts Valley Site, and the United States Environmental Protection Agency. The Scotts Valley Site is listed on the National Priorities List as the “Watkins-Johnson Superfund Site” pursuant to the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act. The contamination on the Scotts Valley Site includes chlorinated solvents in soil and groundwater. The site is being remediated under the terms of an agreement under which an environmental consultant, ARCADIS Geraghty & Miller International, has agreed to complete the work, and an insurance policy is in place to cover certain remediation costs. If, however, ARCADIS, WJ Communications and the insurance provider fail to fulfill their obligations, we could be subject to substantial fines and be forced to suspend production, alter manufacturing processes or cease business operations, any of which could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our ability to use net operating losses to offset future taxable income is subject to limitations. In general, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change net operating losses, or NOLs, to offset future taxable income. A corporation generally undergoes an “ownership change” if the percentage of stock of the corporation owned by one or more of its 5% stockholders (where all stock owned by stockholders who are not 5% stockholders generally is treated as owned by one or more 5% stockholders) has increased by more than 50 percentage points over a three-year period. Trikon’s net operating losses are subject to limitations arising from previous ownership changes and will be subject to additional limitations as a result of our merger transaction with Trikon. Our existing net operating losses also may be subject to limitations, and our merger transaction with Trikon may have resulted in our undergoing an ownership change, thus potentially further limiting our net operating losses. It is impossible for us to ensure that we will not experience an ownership change in the future because changes in our stock ownership, some of which are outside of our control, could result in an ownership change under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. Generally, the limitations on our ability to use either our or Trikon’s pre-merger transaction NOLs to offset future taxable income are expected to be significant, and thus our liability for future U.S. federal income taxes may be materially higher than that liability would have been absent such limitations. Similar rules may apply for foreign and state income tax purposes as well. Business interruptions could adversely affect our business. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption by fire, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failure and other events beyond our control. A disaster could severely damage our ability to deliver our systems to our customers. In order to manufacture our systems, we will need to maintain and protect our manufacturing facilities and computer systems, many of which will be located in or near our headquarters in Scotts Valley, California. Scotts Valley is located near a known earthquake fault zone. Although our facilities are designed to be fault-tolerant, our systems are susceptible to damage from fire, floods, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. Although we maintain general business insurance against interruptions such as fires and floods, we cannot assure you that the amount of coverage will be adequate in any particular case. Any acquisitions we may make could disrupt business and harm our financial condition. We may invest in complementary products, companies or technologies. Such investments involve numerous risks, including: · diversion of management’s attention from other operational matters; · inability to complete acquisitions as anticipated or at all; · inability to realize synergies expected to result from an acquisition; · failure to commercialize purchased technologies; 24 · ineffectiveness of an acquired company’s internal controls; · impairment of acquired intangible assets as a result of technological advancements or worse-than-expected performance of the acquired company or its product offerings; · unknown and undisclosed commitments or liabilities; · failure to integrate and retain key employees; and · ineffective integration of operations. Mergers and acquisitions are inherently subject to significant risks, and our inability to manage these risks effectively could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our affiliates own a large amount of our common stock, which will limit your ability to influence our corporate activities. As of September 29, 2006, affiliates of VantagePoint Venture Partners, which we collectively refer to as VantagePoint, and Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec, which we refer to as CDPQ, owned approximately 47% and 20%, respectively, of our outstanding common stock. VantagePoint and CDPQ exercise significant influence over our operations, business strategy and the outcome of votes on all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the approval of significant corporate transactions such as mergers or other business combinations. VantagePoint or CDPQ may have interests that differ from the interests of our other stockholders. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of Aviza or discouraging others from making tender offers for shares of our common stock, which could prevent our other stockholders from receiving a premium for their shares. The price our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile, which may lead to losses by investors or to securities litigation. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile, and our stock price may decline in the future. For example, for the period from December 2, 2005, the first day that our common stock was publicly traded, through September 29, 2006, the closing price range of our common stock was $3.66 to $6.56 per share. In addition, in recent years, the stock market in general, and the market for shares of high technology stocks in particular, have experienced extreme price fluctuations, and these fluctuations have frequently been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. These fluctuations could lead to a decline in the market price of our common stock. In the past, securities litigation has often been instituted against a company following periods of volatility in its stock price. This type of litigation, if filed against us, could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 25 ITEM 