Item 1A. Risk Factors The following discussion of risk factors contains “forward-looking statements,” as discussed immediately preceding Item 1A. of this Form 10-K. These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Form 10-K or elsewhere. The risk factors should also be read in conjunction with “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and our Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. Because of the following risk factors, as well as other factors affecting our financial condition and operating results, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Risks Relating to Our Bankruptcy Proceedings There are risks and uncertainties associated with the Bankruptcy Case. We have filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. For the duration of the Bankruptcy Case, our business and operations will be subjected to various risks, including but not limited to: · our ability to maintain commercial relationships on competitive terms with customers and maintain contracts that are critical to our operations; · our ability to maintain credit to retain and attract necessary suppliers and service providers that are critical to our operations; · our ability to retain and motivate key employees through the process of the proceedings, and to attract qualified new employees; and · the ability of our management team to focus exclusively on business operations due to the significant amount of time and effort be required in dealing with restructuring related activities. Our ability to execute our business strategy will be subjected to certain risks and uncertainties associated with bankruptcy, including but not limited to: · our ability to continue as a going concern; · our ability to develop, confirm and consummate a plan of reorganization under the Bankruptcy Code; · our ability to complete definitive restructuring documents and obtain approval of the Bankruptcy Court with respect to the motions filed in Bankruptcy Case from time to time; · our ability to operate within the restrictions and liquidity limitations of our debtor-in-possession financing; and · our ability to comply with and operate under any cash management orders entered by the Bankruptcy Court from time to time. These risks and uncertainties could affect our business and operations in various ways and can ultimately affect our ability to emerge from bankruptcy. For example, negative events or publicity associated with the Bankruptcy Case could adversely affect our relationships with our suppliers, employees and customers, which in turn could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Also, transactions outside the ordinary course of business are subject to the prior approval of the Bankruptcy Court, which may limit our ability to respond timely to certain events or take advantage of opportunities. Because of the risks and uncertainties associated with the Bankruptcy Case, we cannot predict or quantify the ultimate impact that events occurring during the Chapter 11 reorganization process may have on our business, results of operations and financial condition, and there is no certainty as to our ability to continue as a going concern. We may have a significant amount of indebtedness upon emergence and may require funding after emergence. While no plan of reorganization under our Bankruptcy Case has yet been formulated, we may have a significant amount of indebtedness upon emergence from bankruptcy. Such indebtedness could have important consequences because: 16 · a portion of the cash flow from operations of the reorganized Debtors will be dedicated to debt service and will be unavailable to support operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions, or general corporate or other purposes; · the reorganized Debtors’ ability to obtain additional financing in the future may be limited; · the reorganized Debtors’ flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business may be limited; and · the reorganized Debtors may be more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in their business or the economy in general. There can be no assurance that the reorganized Debtors will be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that sufficient future borrowings will be available to pay off the reorganized Debtors’ debt obligations. The reorganized Debtors’ ability to make payments on, and to refinance, their debt will depend on their ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, will be subject to general economic, business, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors that will be beyond the control of the reorganized Debtors. The reorganized Debtors may need to refinance all or a portion of their debt on or before maturity; however, there can be no assurance that the reorganized Debtors will be able to refinance any of their debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The seismic data acquisition services industry is capital intensive, and sources of cash to finance our capital expenditures may not always be available. Seismic data acquisition equipment is continually being improved with new technology. In order to remain competitive, we must continue to invest additional capital to maintain, upgrade, and expand our seismic data acquisition capabilities. Seismic data acquisition equipment is expensive, and our ability to operate and expand our business operations depends upon the availability of internally generated cash flow and financing alternatives. If financing is not available, our results of operations will be negatively affected. While we believe our debtor-in-possession financing will be sufficient to fund our operations in the near term, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining sufficient additional capital to upgrade and expand our current operations through cash from operations or additional financing or other transactions, if and when required, on acceptable terms. Due to the uncertainties surrounding the changing market for seismic services, increases in capital and technological requirements, and other matters associated with operations, we are unable to estimate the amount or terms of any financing that we may need to acquire, upgrade, and maintain seismic equipment. If we are unable to obtain such financing, if and when needed, we may be forced to curtail business objectives and to finance our business activities with only such internally generated funds as may then be available. We have assets located around the world, and creditors in some jurisdictions outside the United States may not respect the automatic stay in the Bankruptcy Case and may attempt to seize assets located in such jurisdictions. The Debtors in the Bankruptcy Case, including Global Geophysical Services, Inc., have assets located in various jurisdictions around the world, including Colombia, Dubai, Paraguay and Kenya, and have trade and other creditors in such jurisdictions. While the United States takes the position that the effect of the automatic stay in a Chapter 11 proceeding extends to assets and creditors outside the United States, there is some risk that creditors in jurisdictions where the Debtors operate outside the United States will not respect the automatic stay applicable under U.S. law and will attempt to seize assets located in one or more of those jurisdictions as we have recently experienced from one of our creditors outside of the United States. In any such situation, we might elect to take steps as needed to seek ‎recognition ‎of the ‎Bankruptcy Case and/or confirm the application of the automatic ‎stay or its equivalent (including injunctive relief) to such creditors.‎ However, there is no assurance that ‎any such steps will be effective and to the extent that such steps are not effective, such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.‎ The pursuit of the Bankruptcy Case has occupied and will continue to occupy a substantial portion of the time and attention of our management and will impact how our business is conducted, which may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. A long period of operating under Chapter 11 could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. While the Bankruptcy Case continues, our management and certain of our employees will be required to spend a significant amount of time and effort focusing on the Bankruptcy Case. This diversion of attention from other matters may materially adversely affect the conduct of our business, and, as a result, our results of operations and financial condition, particularly if the Bankruptcy Case is protracted. 17 We may experience increased levels of employee attrition. During the term of the Bankruptcy Case, our employees will face considerable distraction and uncertainty and we may experience increased levels of employee attrition. A loss of key personnel or material erosion of employee morale could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer and supplier expectations, thereby adversely affecting our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to engage, motivate and retain key employees or take other measures intended to motivate and incentivize key employees to remain with us through the term of the Bankruptcy Case is limited during the Bankruptcy Case by restrictions on implementation of retention programs and the uncertain value of our equity compensation. The failure to retain or attract members of our management team and other key personnel could impair our ability to execute our strategy and implement operational initiatives, thereby having a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are not be able to obtain confirmation of a plan of reorganization or if sufficient debtor-in-possession financing is not available, we could be required to seek a sale of the Debtors or certain of their material assets pursuant to Section 363 of the Bankruptcy Code or liquidate under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code. We have not yet formulated or proposed a plan of reorganization to the Bankruptcy Court in our Bankruptcy Case. In order to successfully emerge from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, we must develop and obtain court and creditor approval of a plan of reorganization. This process requires us to meet statutory requirements with respect to adequacy of disclosure with respect to a plan, soliciting and obtaining creditor acceptance of a plan, and fulfilling other statutory conditions for plan confirmation. We may not receive the requisite acceptances to confirm a plan. Even if the requisite acceptances of a plan are received, the Bankruptcy Court may not confirm it or there may not be sufficient exit financing available to finance the emergence of the Debtors from Chapter 11 under a plan. In addition, our debtor-in-possession financing may not be sufficient to meet our liquidity requirements or may be restricted or terminated by the lenders under the debtor-in-possession financing if we breach the terms of such financing. If any of these events were to occur, we could be forced to sell the Company or certain of its material assets pursuant to Section 363 of the Bankruptcy Code or liquidate under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code. We have not made any final determinations with respect to reorganizing our capital structure, and any changes to our capital structure may have a material adverse effect on existing debt and other security holders. Any reorganization of our capital structure that we may engage in may include exchanges of new debt or equity securities for our existing debt and equity securities, and such new debt or equity securities may be issued at different interest rates, payment schedules, and maturities than our existing debt and equity securities. We may also modify our existing debt or equity securities to the same effect. Such exchanges or modifications are inherently complex to implement. The success of a reorganization through any such exchanges or modifications will depend on approval by the Bankruptcy Court and the willingness of existing debt and security holders to agree to the exchange or modification, and there can be no guarantee of success. If such exchanges or modifications are successful, the existing holders of common stock or Depositary Shares may find that their holdings no longer have any value, are materially reduced in value or are severely diluted. Also, holders of our debt may find their holdings no longer have any value or are materially reduced in value, or they may be converted to equity and be diluted or receive debt with a principal amount that is less than the outstanding principal amount, longer maturities, and reduced interest rates. There can be no assurance that any new debt or equity securities will maintain their value at the time of issuance. Also, if the existing debt or equity security holders are adversely affected by a reorganization, it may adversely affect our ability to issue new debt or equity in the future. The volatility of the financial markets may prevent us from obtaining financing to complete the reorganization. In order to reorganize, we may require access to the financial markets. Financial markets are heavily influenced by government policies and interventions, which may ultimately limit the terms, availability and affordability of financing necessary for us to reorganize. Any plan of reorganization that we may formulate and implement will be based in large part upon assumptions and analyses developed by us. If these assumptions and analyses prove to be incorrect, our plan may be unsuccessful in its execution. Any plan of reorganization that we may formulate and implement could affect both our capital structure and the ownership, structure and operation of our businesses and will reflect assumptions and analyses based on our experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions and expected future developments, as well as other factors that we consider appropriate under the circumstances. Whether actual future results and developments will be consistent with our expectations and assumptions depends on a number of factors, including but not limited to (i) our ability to substantially change our capital structure; (ii) our ability to obtain adequate liquidity and financing sources; (iii) our ability to maintain customers’ confidence in our viability as a continuing entity and to attract and retain sufficient business from them; (iv) our ability to retain key employees; and (v) the overall strength and stability of general economic conditions and conditions in the oil and gas exploration and production and service industries, both in the U.S. and in global markets. The failure of any of these factors could materially adversely affect the successful reorganization of our businesses. 18 In addition, any plan of reorganization will rely upon financial projections, including with respect to revenues, EBITDA, capital expenditures, debt service and cash flow. Financial forecasts are necessarily speculative, and it is likely that one or more of the assumptions and estimates that are the basis of these financial forecasts will not be accurate. In our case, the forecasts will be even more speculative than normal, because they may involve fundamental changes in the nature of our capital structure. Accordingly, we expect that our actual financial condition and results of operations will differ, perhaps materially, from what we have anticipated. Consequently, there can be no assurance that the results or developments contemplated by any plan of reorganization we may implement will occur or, even if they do occur, that they will have the anticipated effects on us and our subsidiaries or our businesses or operations. The failure of any such results or developments to materialize as anticipated could materially adversely affect the successful execution of any plan of reorganization. Operating under Chapter 11 may restrict our ability to pursue strategic and operational initiatives. Under Chapter 11, transactions outside the ordinary course of business are subject to the prior approval of the Bankruptcy Court, which may limit our ability to respond in a timely manner to certain events or take advantage of certain opportunities. Additionally, the terms of our debtor-in-possession financing limit our ability to undertake certain business initiatives. These limitations include, among other things, our ability to: · sell assets outside the ordinary course of business; · consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; · grant liens; and · finance our operations, investments or other capital needs or to engage in other business activities that might be in our interest. As a result of the Bankruptcy Case, realization of assets and liquidation of liabilities are subject to uncertainty. While operating under the protection of the Bankruptcy Code, and subject to Bankruptcy Court approval or otherwise as permitted in the normal course of business, we may sell or otherwise dispose of assets and liquidate or settle liabilities for amounts other than those reflected in our consolidated financial statements. Further, a plan of reorganization could materially change the amounts and classifications reported in our consolidated historical financial statements, which do not currently give effect to any adjustments to the carrying value of assets or amounts of liabilities that might be necessary as a consequence of confirmation of a plan of reorganization. As a result of the Bankruptcy Case, our historical financial information may not be indicative of our future financial performance. Our capital structure will likely be significantly altered under any plan of reorganization ultimately confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court. Under fresh-start reporting rules that may apply to us upon the effective date of a plan of reorganization, our assets and liabilities would be adjusted to fair values and our accumulated deficit would be restated to zero. Accordingly, if fresh-start reporting rules apply, our results of operations and financial condition following our emergence from Chapter 11 would not be comparable to the results of operations and financial condition reflected in our historical financial statements. In connection with the Bankruptcy Case and the development of a plan of reorganization, it is also possible that additional restructuring and related charges may be identified and recorded in future periods. Such charges could be material to our business, results of operations and financial condition in any given period. Third parties may propose competing Chapter 11 plans of reorganization. Chapter 11 gives us the exclusive right to file a plan of reorganization during the first 120 days after filing. That period can be extended for cause up to a total of 18 months from the date we filed the Voluntary Petitions with approval of the Bankruptcy Court. While we intend to conclude our Bankruptcy Case during this so-called “exclusivity period” as it may be extended, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so. After the expiration of the exclusivity period, third parties can file one or more Chapter 11 plans for the Debtors. An alternative plan of reorganization could contemplate the Debtors continuing as a going concern, the Debtors being broken up, the Debtors or their assets being acquired by a third party, the Debtors being merged with a competitor, or some other proposal. We may not believe that such an alternative plan of reorganization is in our stakeholders’ best interests or fully values the benefits to be achieved by our reorganization. If we cannot successfully obtain approval of our plan of reorganization during the exclusivity period, we may have limited ability to prevent an alternative plan of reorganization from being approved by the Bankruptcy Court. 19 Risks Relating to Our Common Stock and Depositary Shares Trading in our securities during the term of the Bankruptcy Case is highly speculative and poses substantial risks. Trading in securities of an issuer in bankruptcy is extremely speculative, and there is a very significant risk that investors will lose their entire investment. It is impossible to predict at this time whether our equity or other securities will be canceled or if holders of such equity or other securities will receive any distribution with respect to, or be able to recover any portion of, their investments. Trading prices for our equity or other securities may bear little or no relationship to actual recovery, if any, by holders thereof during the term of the Bankruptcy Case. We caution and urge existing and future investors to carefully consider the significant risks with respect to investments in our equity and other securities. Our common stock and Depositary Shares are no longer traded on a national securities exchange. Our common stock is traded only in the over-the-counter market, which could negatively affect our stock price and liquidity. The shares of our common stock were historically listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “GGS.” In connection with the commencement of the Bankruptcy Case, effective March 26, 2014, the NYSE suspended the trading of our shares and Depositary Shares and is taking action to remove our shares and Depositary Shares from listing and registration on the NYSE. Our common stock is now trading over-the-counter and is quoted on the OTC Market. The extent of the public market for our common stock and the continued availability of quotations depends upon such factors as the aggregate market value of the common stock, the interest in maintaining a market in our common stock on the part of securities firms and other factors. The OTC Market is a significantly more limited market than the NYSE, and the quotation of our common stock on the OTC Market may result in a less liquid market available for existing and potential shareholders to trade shares of our common stock. This could further depress the trading price of our common stock and could also have a long-term adverse effect on our ability to raise capital. There can be no assurance that any public market for our common stock will exist in the future or that we will be able to relist our common stock on a national securities exchange. In connection with the delisting of our common stock, there may also be other negative implications, including the potential loss of confidence in us by suppliers, customers and employees and the loss of institutional investors. Risks Relating to Our Business Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by economic conditions. Prices for oil and natural gas have been volatile. During the most recent period of depressed commodity prices, many oil and gas exploration and production companies significantly reduced their levels of capital spending, including amounts dedicated to the purchase of seismic data services. Historically, demand for our services has depended significantly on the level of exploration spending by oil and gas companies. A return of depressed commodity prices, or a decline in existing commodity prices or other economic factors, could have a material adverse affect on demand for the services we provide, and therefore affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Industry spending on our services is subject to rapid and material change. The willingness of our clients to explore, develop and produce depends largely upon prevailing industry conditions that are influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, such as: • demand for oil and natural gas, especially in the United States, China and India; • the ability of oil and gas exploration and production companies to generate funds or otherwise obtain external capital for exploration, development, construction and production operations; 20 • the sale and expiration dates of leases and concessions in the United States and the international markets where we operate; • domestic and foreign tax and environmental policies; • the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and natural gas; • the expected rates of decline related to current production; • the availability and discovery rates of new oil and gas reserves; • technical advances affecting energy exploration, production, transportation and consumption; • weather conditions, including hurricanes and monsoons that can affect oil and gas operations over a wide area as well as less severe inclement weather that can preclude or delay seismic data acquisition; • political and economic instability in oil and gas producing countries; • government and other organizational policies, including those of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, regarding the exploration, production and development of oil and gas reserves; and • merger and divestiture activity among oil and gas producers. In addition, increases in oil and natural gas prices may not have a positive effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Although demand for our services may decrease when depressed economic conditions are present, including lower oil and natural gas prices, the reverse is not necessarily true due to the factors listed in this Form 10-K as well as other factors beyond our control. We have identified material weaknesses in our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting, and we may be unable to develop, implement and maintain appropriate controls in future periods. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and SEC rules require that management report annually on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures. Among other things, management must conduct an assessment of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to audit, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. As more fully described in Note 21 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K, we have restated our consolidated financial statements for prior periods to correct certain errors. Accordingly, based on our management’s assessment, we believe that, as of December 31, 2013, our internal controls over financial reporting were not effective. The specific material weaknesses are described in Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures” of this 2013 Form 10-K in “Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting”. A “material weakness” is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim consolidated financial statements would not be prevented or detected. We cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in additional material weaknesses, or could result in material misstatements in our financial statements. These misstatements could result in additional restatements of our financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. We have work remaining to remedy the material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. We are in the process of developing and implementing our remediation plan for the identified material weaknesses, and this work will continue during fiscal year 2014. There can be no assurance as to when the remediation plan will be fully developed, when it will be fully implemented and the aggregate cost of implementation. Until our remediation plan is fully implemented, we will continue to devote time and attention to these efforts. If we do not complete our remediation in a timely fashion, or at all, or if our remediation plan is inadequate, there will continue to be an increased risk that we will be unable to timely file future periodic reports with the SEC and that our future financial statements could contain errors that will be undetected. We will rely upon additional interim control procedures prescribed by management, including the use of manual mitigating control procedures, to fairly state our financial statements in all material respects. However, the establishment of these interim controls does not provide the same degree of assurance as a remediated control environment. Further and continued determinations that there are material weaknesses in the effectiveness of our internal controls could also reduce our ability to obtain financing or could increase the cost of any financing we obtain and require additional expenditures of resources to comply with applicable requirements. For more information relating to our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, and the remediation plan undertaken by us, see “Item 9A, Controls and Procedures” of this 2013 Form 10-K. 21 Our revenues are subject to fluctuations that are beyond our control, which could adversely affect our results of operations in any financial period. Our operating results may vary in material respects from quarter to quarter and may continue to do so in the future. Factors that cause variations include the timing of the receipt and commencement of contracts for seismic data acquisition, processing or interpretation and clients’ budgetary cycles, which matters are beyond our control. Furthermore, in any given period, we could have idle crews that result in a significant portion of our revenues, cash flows and earnings coming from a relatively small number of crews. Additionally, due to location, service line or particular project, some of our individual crews may achieve results that are a significant percentage of our consolidated operating results. Should one or more of these crews experience significant changes in timing or delays, our financial results could be subject to significant variations from period to period. Combined with our high fixed costs, these revenue fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition in any financial period. Our working capital needs are difficult to forecast and may vary significantly, which could require us to seek additional financing that we may not be able to obtain on satisfactory terms, or at all. Our working capital needs are difficult to predict with certainty. This difficulty is due primarily to working capital requirements related to our seismic data services where our revenues vary in material respects as a result of, among other things, the timing of our projects, our clients’ budgetary cycles and our receipt of payment. As a result, we may be subjected to significant and rapid increases in our working capital needs that could require us to seek additional financing sources. The Bankruptcy Case and restrictions in our debtor-in-possession financing will impair our ability to obtain other sources of financing, and access to additional sources of financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We face intense competition in our business that could result in downward pricing pressure and the loss of market share. Competition among seismic contractors historically has been, and likely will continue to be, intense. Competitive factors have in recent years included price, crew experience, equipment availability, Health, Safety and Environmental ("HSE") performance, technological expertise and reputation for quality and dependability. We also face increasing competition from nationally owned companies in various international jurisdictions that operate under less significant financial constraints than those we experience. Many of our competitors have greater financial and other resources, more clients, greater market recognition and more established relationships and alliances in the industry than we do. They and other competitors may be better positioned to withstand and adjust more quickly to volatile market conditions, such as fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices and production levels, as well as changes in government regulations. Additionally, the seismic data acquisition business is extremely price competitive and has a history of protracted periods of months or years where seismic contractors under financial duress bid jobs at unattractive pricing levels and therefore adversely affect industry pricing. Competition from these and other competitors could result in downward pricing pressure, which could adversely affect our EBITDA margins, and the loss of market share. We have had losses and there is no assurance of our profitability for the future. We experienced a net loss of $153.5 million in 2013 and $15.6 million in 2012. We cannot assure you that we will be profitable in future periods. We have supply arrangements with a limited number of key suppliers, the loss of any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Beginning in 2011, we sourced our principal nodal seismic recording systems from Autoseis, Inc., our wholly owned subsidiary. The systems are manufactured under an exclusive arrangement with Creation Technologies, a U.S. supplier of electronics. If our key supplier discontinues operations or otherwise refuses to honor its supply arrangements with us, we may be required to enter into agreements with alternative suppliers on terms less favorable to us, which could result in increased product costs, longer delivery lead times, and other risks. 22 Key suppliers or their affiliates may compete with us. We purchase seismic vibrator equipment manufactured by ION, which directly or indirectly through a joint venture with BGP, competes with us. There are a limited number of companies which manufacture this equipment in addition to ION. If ION chooses to no longer sell this equipment to us, or to no longer sell such equipment to us on commercially reasonable terms, whether as a result of competitive pressures or otherwise, we may be required to use less suitable replacement equipment which could impair our ability to execute our business solutions for customers. We are dependent upon a relatively small number of significant clients. Additionally, from time to time a significant portion of our revenues are generated by a single project. We derive a significant amount of our revenues at any one time from a relatively small number of oil and gas exploration and development companies. During the year ended December 31, 2013, we had one client that accounted for 11% of our revenues. While our revenues are derived from a concentrated client base, our significant clients may vary between years. If we lose one or more major clients in the future, or if one or more clients encounter financial difficulties, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, from time to time, a significant portion of our revenues are generated by a single project. Our dependence from time to time on a single project for a significant percentage of our revenues may result in significant variability of our earnings from period to period as these projects are completed. We cannot assure you that NOC and IOC clients will continue to generate the majority, or even a significant percentage, of our revenues. Smaller or less capitalized oil and gas exploration and production companies may be forced to reduce their budgets for seismic data acquisition services in periods of depressed or declining commodity prices. Our dependence on customers other than NOCs and IOCs for a substantial portion of our revenues could expose us to greater earnings volatility. Historically, our NOC and IOC clients have represented a significant percentage of our revenues. Smaller or less capitalized oil and gas exploration and production companies may be required to reduce sharply their expenditures for seismic data acquisition services in periods of depressed or declining commodity prices. Our dependence on customers other than NOCs and IOCs for a substantial portion of our revenues could expose us to greater earnings and cash flow volatility. Revenues derived from our projects may not be sufficient to cover our costs of completing those projects. As a result, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Our revenues are determined, in part, by the price we receive for our services, the productivity of our crews and the accuracy of our cost estimates. Our crews’ productivity is partly a function of external factors, such as seasonal variations in the length of days, weather, including the onset of hurricanes, difficult terrain, and third party delays, over which we have little or no control. In addition, cost estimates for our projects may be inadequate due to unknown factors associated with the work to be performed and market conditions, resulting in cost over-runs. If our crews encounter operational difficulties or delays, or if we have not correctly priced our services, our results of operation may vary, and in some cases, may be adversely affected. We have in the past experienced cost over-runs that caused the costs from a particular project to exceed the revenues from that project, and we cannot assure you that this will not happen again. Many of our projects are performed on a turnkey basis where a defined amount and scope of work is provided by us for a fixed price and extra work, which is subject to client approval, is billed separately. The revenues, cost and gross profit realized on a turnkey contract can vary from our estimated amount because of changes in job conditions, variations in labor and equipment productivity from the original estimates, the performance of subcontractors, and any other similar conditions. Turnkey contracts may also cause us to bear substantially all of the risks of business interruption caused by weather delays and other hazards. These variations, delays and risks inherent in billing clients at a fixed price may result in us experiencing reduced profitability or losses on projects that could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 23 From time to time we experience disputes with our clients relating to the amounts we invoice for our services, particularly with respect to billings relating to standby time. The exercise of remedies against clients in connection with our collection efforts could negatively affect our ability to secure future business from those clients. Our contracts for seismic data acquisition services typically include provisions that require payment to us at a reduced rate for a limited amount of time if we are unable to record seismic data as a result of weather conditions or certain other factors outside our control, including delays caused by our clients. From time to time we experience disputes with our clients relating to the amounts we invoice for our services. The exercise of our contractual remedies against these or other clients in connection with our collection efforts could negatively affect our relationship with these clients, and could result in the loss of future business, which in turn could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition in future periods. Technological change in our business creates risks of technological obsolescence and requirements for future capital expenditures. If we are unable to continue investing in, or otherwise acquire, the latest technology, we may not be able to compete effectively. The development of seismic data acquisition, processing and interpretation equipment has been characterized by rapid technological advancements in recent years, and we expect this trend to continue. Manufacturers of seismic equipment may develop new systems that have competitive advantages relative to systems now in use that either renders the equipment we currently use obsolete or require us to make substantial capital expenditures to maintain our competitive position. Additionally, a number of seismic equipment manufacturers are affiliated with or are otherwise controlled by our competitors. If any such equipment manufacturer developed new equipment or systems and, for competitive reasons or otherwise, declined to sell such equipment or systems to us, we could be placed at a competitive disadvantage. In order to remain competitive, we must continue to invest additional capital to maintain, upgrade and expand our seismic data acquisition capabilities. See “Part II – Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Capital Resources.” If we do not effectively manage our transitions into new products and services, our revenues may suffer. Products and services for the seismic industry are characterized by rapid technological advances in hardware performance, software functionality and features, frequent introduction of new products and services, and improvement in price characteristics relative to product and service performance. Among the risks associated with the introduction of new products and services are delays in development or manufacturing, variations in costs, delays in customer purchases or reductions in price of existing products in anticipation of new introductions, write-offs or write-downs of the carrying costs of assets associated with prior generation products, difficulty in predicting customer demand for new product and service offerings and effectively managing inventory levels so that they are in line with anticipated demand, risks associated with customer qualification, evaluation of new products, and the risk that new products may have quality or other defects or may not be supported adequately by application software. The introduction of new products and services by our competitors also may result in delays in customer purchases and difficulty in predicting customer demand. If we do not make an effective transition from existing products and services to future offerings, our revenues and margins may decline. Furthermore, sales of our new products and services may replace sales, or result in discounting, of some of our current offerings, offsetting the benefit of a successful new product introduction. In addition, it may be difficult to ensure performance of new products and services in accordance with our revenues, margin, and cost estimates and to achieve operational efficiencies embedded in our estimates. Given the competitive nature of the seismic industry, if any of these risks materialize, the future demand for our products and services, and our future business, results of operations and financial condition, may suffer. 24 We are exposed to risks related to complex, highly technical products. Our customers often require demanding specifications for product performance and reliability. Because many of our products are complex and often use unique advanced components, processes, technologies, and techniques, undetected errors and design and manufacturing flaws may occur. Even though we attempt to assure that our systems perform reliably in the field, the many technical variables related to their operations can cause a combination of factors that may, and from time to time have, caused performance and service issues with certain of our products. Product defects result in higher product service, warranty, and replacement costs and may affect our customer relationships and industry reputation, all of which may adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Despite our testing and quality assurance programs, undetected errors may not be discovered until the product is purchased and used by a customer in a variety of field conditions. If our customers deploy our new products and they do not work correctly, our relationship with our customers may be materially and adversely affected. We face risks related to inventory. We are exposed to inventory risks that may adversely affect our operating results as a result of new product launches, rapid changes in product cycles and pricing, defective merchandise, changes in customer demand and other factors. We endeavor to accurately predict these trends and avoid shortages or excess or obsolete inventory. Demand for products, however, can change significantly between the time inventory or components are ordered and the date of sale. Any one of the inventory risk factors set forth above may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our backlog estimates are based on certain assumptions and are subject to unexpected adjustments and cancellations and thus may not be timely converted to revenues in any particular fiscal period, if at all, or be indicative of our actual operating results for any future period. Our backlog estimates represent those seismic data acquisition projects for which a client has executed a contract and has a scheduled start date for the project as well as unrecognized pre-committed funding from our Multi-client Services segment. Backlog estimates are based on a number of assumptions and estimates including assumptions related to foreign exchange rates and proportionate performance of contracts and our valuation of assets, such as seismic data, to be received by us as payment under certain agreements. The realization of our backlog estimates is further affected by our performance under term rate contracts, as the early or late completion of a project under term rate contracts will generally result in decreased or increased, as the case may be, revenues derived from these projects. Contracts for services are also occasionally modified by mutual consent. Because of potential changes in the scope or schedule of our clients’ projects, we cannot predict with certainty when or if our backlog will be realized. Even where a project proceeds as scheduled, it is possible that the client may default and fail to pay amounts owed to us. In addition, the contracts in our backlog are cancelable by the client. Material delays, payment defaults or cancellations could reduce the amount of backlog currently reported, and consequently, could inhibit the conversion of that backlog into revenues. We have invested, and may continue to invest, significant amounts of money in acquiring and processing seismic data for Multi-client surveys and for our seismic data library without knowing precisely how much of this seismic data we will be able to license or when and at what price we will be able to license such data. Multi-client surveys and the resulting seismic data library are an important part of our business. Although we are placing greater emphasis on proprietary projects for our customers, we expect to continue to invest in acquiring and processing seismic data that we own. By making such investments, we are exposed to the following risks: • We may not fully recover our costs of acquiring, processing and interpreting seismic data through future sales. The amounts of these data sales are uncertain and depend on a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. • The timing of these sales is unpredictable and can vary greatly from period to period. The costs of each survey are capitalized and then amortized over the expected useful life of the data. This amortization will affect our earnings and, when combined with the sporadic nature of sales, will result in increased earnings volatility. 25 • Regulatory changes that affect companies’ ability to drill, either generally or in a specific location where we have acquired seismic data, could materially and adversely affect the value of the seismic data contained in our library. Technology changes could also make existing data sets obsolete. Additionally, each of our individual surveys has a limited book life based on its location and oil and gas companies’ interest in prospecting for reserves in such location, so a particular survey may be subject to a significant and/or accelerated decline in value beyond our initial estimates. • The value of our Multi-client data could be significantly adversely affected if any material adverse change occurs in the general prospects for oil and gas exploration, development and production activities. • The cost estimates upon which we base our pre-commitments of funding could be wrong, which could result in losses that have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. • Pre-commitments of funding are subject to the creditworthiness of our clients. In the event that a client refuses or is unable to pay its commitment, we could lose a material amount of money. • If our clients significantly increase their preference toward licensing seismic data from Multi-client data libraries, we may not have the appropriate existing data library assets to be able to obtain permits and access rights to geographic areas of interest from which to record such data, or make appropriate levels of investment in the creation of new data library assets to support our business strategy. Any reduction in the market value of such data will require us to write down its recorded value, which could have a significant material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operations are subject to delays related to obtaining land access rights from third parties which could affect our results of operations. Our seismic data acquisition operations could be adversely affected by our inability to obtain timely access to both public and private land included within a seismic survey. We cannot begin surveys on property without obtaining permits from certain governmental entities as well as the permission of the parties who have rights to the land being surveyed. In recent years, it has become more difficult, costly and time-consuming to obtain access rights as drilling activities have expanded into more populated areas. Additionally, while land owners generally are cooperative in granting access rights, some have become more resistant to seismic and drilling activities occurring on their property and stall or refuse to grant these rights for various reasons. In our Multi-client Services segment, we acquire data sets pertaining to large areas of land. Consequently, if we do not obtain land access rights from a specific land owner, we may not be able to provide a complete survey for that area. The failure to redact or remove the seismic information relating to mineral interests held by non-consenting third parties could result in claims against us for seismic trespass. In addition, governmental entities do not always grant permits within the time periods expected. Delays associated with obtaining such permits and significant omissions from a survey as a result of the failure to obtain consents could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We operate under hazardous conditions that subject us and our employees to risk of damage to property or personal injury, and limitations on our insurance coverage may expose us to potentially significant liability costs. Our activities are often conducted in dangerous environments and under hazardous conditions, including the detonation of dynamite. Operating in such environments and under such conditions carries with it inherent risks, such as damage to or loss of human life, property or equipment, as well as the risk of downtime or reduced productivity resulting from equipment failures caused by such adverse operating environment. These risks could cause us to experience equipment losses, injuries to our personnel and interruptions in our business. In addition our insurance may not be sufficient or adequate to cover all losses or liabilities or that insurance will continue to be available to us or available to us on acceptable terms. A successful claim for which we are not fully insured, or which exceeds the policy limits of our applicable insurance, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, we do not carry business interruption insurance with respect to our operations. 26 Our agreements with our clients may not adequately protect us from unforeseen events or address all issues that could arise with our clients. The occurrence of unforeseen events not adequately addressed in the contracts could result in increased liability, costs and expenses associated with any given project. With many of our clients we enter into master service agreements that allocate certain operational risks. Despite the inclusion of risk allocation provisions in our agreements, our operations may be affected by a number of events that are unforeseen or not within our control. Our agreements may not adequately protect us from each possible event. If an event occurs that we have not contemplated or otherwise addressed in an agreement, we, and not our client, will likely bear the increased cost or liability. To the extent our agreements do not adequately address these and other issues, or we are not able to resolve successfully resulting disputes, we may incur increased liability, costs and expenses. Weather may adversely affect our ability to conduct business. Our seismic data acquisition operations could be adversely affected by inclement weather conditions. Delays associated with weather conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, weather delays focused on a particular project or region could lengthen the time to complete the project, resulting in decreased margins to us. Accordingly, the results of any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of annual results or continuing trends. We may be held liable for the actions of our subcontractors. We often work as the general contractor on seismic data acquisition surveys and consequently engage a number of subcontractors to perform services and provide products. There can be no assurance we will not be held liable for the actions of these subcontractors. In addition, subcontractors may cause damage or injury to our personnel and property that is not fully covered by insurance. Current or future distressed financial conditions of clients could have an adverse effect on us in the event these clients are unable to pay us for our products and services. Some of our clients may, from time to time, experience severe financial problems that have had or may have a significant effect on their creditworthiness. We generally do not require that our clients make advance payments or otherwise collateralize their payment obligations. We cannot provide assurance that one or more of our financially distressed clients will not default on their payment obligations to us or that such a default or defaults will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Furthermore, the bankruptcy of one or more of our clients, or other similar proceeding or liquidity constraint, will reduce the amounts we can expect to recover, if any, with respect to amounts owed to us by such party. In addition, such events might force those clients to reduce or curtail their future use of our products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The high fixed costs of our operations could result in operating losses. We are subject to high fixed costs that primarily consist of depreciation and other amortization, maintenance expenses associated with our seismic data acquisition, processing and interpretation equipment and certain crew costs. Because some of our equipment is new or nearly new, we believe that our depreciation expense relative to our revenues could be higher than that of many of our competitors. Extended periods of significant downtime or low productivity caused by reduced demand, weather interruptions, equipment failures, permit delays or other causes could reduce our profitability and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition because we will not be able to reduce our fixed costs as fast as revenues decline. 27 Our results of operations could be adversely affected by goodwill or long-lived asset impairments. We periodically review our portfolio of equipment for impairment. A prolonged downturn could affect the carrying value of our goodwill and require us to recognize a loss. If we expect significant sustained decreases in oil and natural gas prices in the future, we may be required to write down the value of our equipment if the future cash flows anticipated to be generated from the related equipment falls below net book value. A decline in oil and natural gas prices, if sustained, can result in future impairments. In addition, changes in industry conditions, such as changes in applicable laws and regulations, could affect the usefulness of our Multi-client seismic data library to oil and gas companies, thereby requiring us to write down the value of our seismic data library. If we are forced to write down the value of our assets, these non-cash asset impairments could negatively affect our results of operations in the period in which they are recorded. See discussions of “Asset Impairment” and “Goodwill” included in Note 2 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.” We are subject to compliance with stringent environmental laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. Our operations are subject to stringent federal, provincial, state and local environmental laws and regulations in the United States and foreign jurisdictions relating to environmental protection. In our business, we use explosives and certain other regulated hazardous materials that are subject to such regulation. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations that are applicable to our operations including: • the acquisition of permits before commencing regulated activities; • the limitation or prohibition of seismic activities in environmentally sensitive or protected areas such as wetlands, wilderness areas or archaeological sites; • restrictions pertaining to the management and operation of our vehicles and equipment; and • licensing requirements for our personnel handling explosives and other regulated hazardous materials. Numerous governmental authorities, such as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), BATFE, the Bureau of Land Management (“BLM”) and analogous state agencies in the United States and governmental bodies with control over environmental matters in foreign jurisdictions, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and any licenses and permits issued under them, oftentimes requiring difficult and costly actions. In addition, failure to comply with these laws, regulations and permits may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of obligations to investigate and/or remediate contaminations, and the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our operations. We invest financial and management resources to comply with these laws and related licensing and permitting requirements, and we believe that the regulatory environment for the oil and natural gas industry and related service providers is likely to become more burdensome and time consuming in future years. Over the last several years, permitting authorities have begun requiring us to comply with standards that have never before applied to seismic companies. While shale plays continue to represent a significant opportunity for us, some proposed or existing regulations would inhibit the use of hydraulic fracturing in connection with the drilling of wells, which is a crucial part in recovering economic amounts of hydrocarbons from shale plays. If oil and natural gas companies face regulation that makes drilling for resources uneconomic, the demand for our services may be adversely affected. In addition, the ongoing revision of such environmental laws and regulations, sometimes as a direct result of particular economic, political, or social events, makes it difficult for seismic data acquisition companies to predict future costs or the impact of such laws and regulations on future projects. As a result, we could incur capital and operating expenses, as well as compliance costs, beyond those anticipated which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. There is inherent risk of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities in our operations due to our controlled storage, use and disposal of explosives. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result or we could be penalized with fines, and any liability could exceed the limits of or fall outside our insurance coverage. 28 Current and future legislation relating to climate change and hydraulic fracturing may negatively impact the exploration and production of oil and gas, and implicitly the demand for our products and services. Along with other seismic data acquisition companies, we may be affected by new environmental legislation intended to limit or reduce increased emissions of gases, such as carbon dioxide and methane from the burning of fossil fuels (oil, gas and coal), which may be a contributing factor to climate change. The European Union has already established greenhouse gas (“GHGs”) regulations, and many other countries, including the United States, are in the process of enacting similar regulations. This could cause us to incur additional direct and indirect compliance costs in relation to any new climate change laws and regulations. Moreover, passage of climate change legislation or other regulatory initiatives that target emissions of GHGs may impair exploration and production of hydrocarbons and thus adversely affect future demand for our products and services. Reductions in our revenues or increases in our expenses as a result of climate control legislative initiatives could have negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Although various climate change legislative measures have been under consideration by the U.S. Congress, it is not possible at this time to predict whether or when Congress may act on climate change legislation. In addition, the “Fracturing Responsibility and Awareness of Chemicals Act” (the “FRAC Act”) was introduced to both houses of the 113th U.S. Congress in May and June 2013, aiming to amend the “Safe Drinking Water Act” (the “SDWA”) by repealing an exemption from regulation for hydraulic fracturing. The 111th and 112th U.S. Congresses did not take any significant action on previously introduced versions of the FRAC Act. If enacted, the FRAC Act would amend the definition of “underground injection” in the SDWA to encompass hydraulic fracturing activities. Such a provision could require hydraulic fracturing operations to meet permitting and financial assurance requirements, adhere to certain construction specifications, fulfill monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping obligations, and meet plugging and abandonment requirements. The FRAC Act also proposes to require the reporting and public disclosure by the energy industry of the chemicals mixed with the water and sand it pumps underground in the hydraulic fracturing process, information that has largely been protected as trade secrets. The adoption of any future federal or state laws or implementing regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or otherwise limiting, the hydraulic fracturing process could make it more difficult to complete natural gas wells. Shale gas cannot be economically produced without extensive fracturing. In the event this legislation is enacted, demand for seismic acquisition services may be adversely affected. In addition, the EPA has asserted federal regulatory authority over certain hydraulic fracturing operations involving diesel additives under the SDWA and has released permitting guidance for hydraulic fracturing activities that use diesel in fracturing fluids in those states where EPA is the permitting authority. Most recently, investor groups are increasingly pressing U.S. oil and gas companies to take stronger actions and increase public disclosure of information on fracking, climate change, and environment changes. In their resolutions, these groups request detailed accounting of how oil and gas companies are addressing the risks of fracking associated with threats to environment, communities, labor, regulatory changes and drilling moratoriums. If successful, these actions may result in substantial cost increases, delays, suspensions or even cancellations of existing or new exploration projects, with a direct adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Historically, our operational expenses incurred in connection with international seismic data projects have been higher than the operational expenses incurred in connection with seismic data projects undertaken in the United States. The profitability of our future international operations will depend significantly on our ability to control these expenses. The expense of mobilizing personnel and equipment to various foreign locations, as well as the cost of obtaining and complying with local regulatory requirements, historically have been significantly higher than the expenses incurred in connection with seismic data projects undertaken in the United States. If we are unable to reduce the expenses incurred in connection with an international seismic data project, or to obtain better pricing for such services, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. 29 Operating internationally subjects us to significant risks and regulation inherent in operating in foreign countries. We conduct operations on a global scale. For the year ended December 31, 2013, approximately 36% of our revenues were attributable to operations in foreign countries. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks inherent to any business operating in foreign countries, and especially those with emerging markets. As we continue to increase our presence in such countries, our operations may encounter the following risks, among others: • government instability, which can cause investment in capital projects by our potential clients to be withdrawn or delayed, reducing or eliminating the viability of some markets for our services; • potential expropriation, seizure, nationalization or detention of assets; • difficulty in repatriating foreign currency received in excess of local currency requirements; • trade sanctions or import/export quotas; • civil uprisings, riots and war, which can make it unsafe to continue operations, adversely affect both budgets and schedules and expose us to losses; • availability of suitable personnel and equipment, which can be affected by government policy, or changes in policy, which limit the importation of qualified crewmembers or specialized equipment in areas where local resources are insufficient; • decrees, laws, regulations, interpretation and court decisions under legal systems, which are not always fully developed and which may be retroactively applied and cause us to incur unanticipated and/or unrecoverable costs as well as delays; and • terrorist attacks, including kidnappings of our personnel. We cannot predict the nature and the likelihood of any such events. However, if any of these or other similar events should occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to taxation in many foreign jurisdictions and the final determination of our tax liabilities involves the interpretation of the statutes and requirements of local and national taxing authorities worldwide. Our tax returns are subject to routine examination by taxing authorities, and these examinations may result in assessments of additional taxes, penalties and/or interest. Our overall success as a global business depends, in part, upon our ability to succeed in differing economic, social and political conditions. We may not continue to succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies that are effective in each location where we do business, which could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. A portion of the seismic equipment that we use in certain foreign countries may require prior U.S. government approval in the form of an export license, and may otherwise be subject to tariffs and import/export restrictions. The delay in obtaining required governmental approvals could affect our ability to timely commence a project, and the failure to comply with all such controls could result in fines and other penalties. 30 As a company subject to compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”), our business may suffer because our efforts to comply with U.S. law could restrict our ability to do business in foreign markets relative to our competitors who are not subject to U.S. law. Additionally, our business plan may involve establishing joint ventures with partners in certain foreign markets. Any determination that we or our foreign agents or joint venture partners have violated the FCPA may adversely affect our business and operations. We and our local partners operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. We may be subject to competitive disadvantages to the extent that our competitors are able to secure business, licenses or other preferential treatment by making payments to government officials and others in positions of influence or using other methods that U.S. law and regulations prohibit us from using. As a U.S. corporation, we are subject to the regulations imposed by the FCPA, which generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business. In particular, we may be held liable for actions taken by our strategic or local partners even though our partners are not subject to the FCPA. Any such violations could result in substantial civil and/or criminal penalties and might adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, our ability to continue to work in the countries discussed above could be adversely affected if we were found to have violated certain U.S. laws, including the FCPA. Our results of operations can be significantly affected by currency fluctuations. A portion of our revenues is derived in the local currencies of the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. Accordingly, we are subject to risks relating to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. In the future, and especially as we expand our sales in international markets, our clients may increasingly make payments in non-U.S. currencies. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could affect our sales, cost of sales and operating margins. In addition, currency devaluation can result in a loss to us if we hold deposits of that currency. Hedging foreign currencies can be difficult, especially if the currency is not actively traded. We cannot predict the effect of future exchange rate fluctuations on our operating results. A terrorist attack or armed conflict could harm our business. Some seismic surveys are located in unstable political jurisdictions, including North Africa and the Middle East. Terrorist activities, anti-terrorist efforts and other armed conflicts involving the United States or other countries may adversely affect our ability to work in these markets which could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. These activities could have a direct negative effect on our business in those areas, including loss of life, equipment and data. Costs for insurance and security may increase as a result of these threats, and some insurance coverage may become more difficult to obtain on acceptable terms, if available at all. Our success depends on key members of our management, the loss of any of whom could disrupt our business operations. We have undergone reorganization of our senior level management. Additional reorganization or the loss of services of additional members of our senior level executives or key personnel could disrupt our operations, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be unable to attract and retain skilled and technically knowledgeable employees, which could adversely affect our business. Our success depends upon attracting and retaining highly skilled professionals and other technical personnel. A number of our employees are highly skilled scientists and highly trained technicians, and our failure to continue to attract and retain such individuals could adversely affect our ability to compete in the seismic services industry. We may confront significant and potentially adverse competition for these skilled and technically knowledgeable personnel, particularly in light of the bankruptcy proceedings and otherwise during periods of increased demand for seismic services. Additionally, at times there may be a shortage of skilled and technical personnel available in the market, potentially compounding the difficulty of attracting and retaining these employees. As a result, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. 31 Our industry has periodically experienced shortages in the availability of equipment. Any difficulty we experience replacing or adding equipment could adversely affect our business. If the demand for seismic services increases, we may not be able to acquire equipment to replace our existing equipment or add additional equipment. From time to time, the high demand for seismic services has decreased the availability of geophysical equipment, resulting in extended delivery dates on orders of new equipment. If that happens again, any delay in obtaining equipment could delay our implementation of additional or larger crews and restrict the productivity of our existing crews. Our required equipment may not continue to be available to us at costs that allow us to be profitable. A delay in obtaining equipment essential to our operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business is subject to cybersecurity risks and threats. Threats to our information technology systems associated with cybersecurity risk and cyber incidents or attacks continue to grow. It is also possible that breaches to our systems could go unnoticed for some period of time. Risks associated with these threats include, among other things, loss of intellectual property, impairment of our ability to conduct our operations , disruption of our customers’ operations, loss or damage to our customer data delivery systems, and increased costs to prevent, respond to or mitigate cybersecurity events. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness The provisions of our debtor-in-possession financing may have adverse effects on our operations and financial results. The terms of our debtor-in-possession financing contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to, among other things: • incur or guarantee additional debt; • pay dividends; • repay subordinated debt prior to its maturity; • grant additional liens on our assets; • enter into transactions with our affiliates; • repurchase stock; • make certain investments or acquisitions of substantially all or a portion of another entity’s business assets; • merge with another entity or dispose of our assets; • engage in new lines of business; and • make expenditures or payments outside of an agreed upon budget. The requirement that we comply with these provisions may materially adversely affect our ability to react to changes in market conditions, take advantage of business opportunities we believe to be desirable, obtain future financing, fund needed capital expenditures or withstand a continuing or future downturn in our business. If our debtor-in-possession lenders foreclose on their security interests in our assets, they will have the right to sell those assets in order to satisfy our obligations to them. Our secured debt obligations under our debtor-in-possession financing are secured by a lien on substantially all of our assets including the equity interests in our material subsidiaries. In the event of foreclosure relating to us or our subsidiaries that have guaranteed our indebtedness under that financing, holders of this secured indebtedness will have prior claims with respect to substantially all of our assets. There can be no assurance that we would receive any proceeds from a foreclosure sale of our assets that constitute collateral following the satisfaction of the secured lenders’ priority claims. 32 If we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in our debtor-in-possession financing and future debt agreements, there could be a default under the terms of such agreements, which could result in an acceleration of repayment. If we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in our debtor-in-possession financing or in future debt agreements, there could be a default under the terms of these agreements. Our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants, may be affected by events beyond our control. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with these restrictions and covenants. In the event of a default under these agreements, lenders could terminate their commitments to lend or accelerate the loans and declare all amounts borrowed due and payable. If any of these events occur, our assets might not be sufficient to repay in full all of our outstanding indebtedness and we may be unable to find alternative financing. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 