Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our publicly-traded securities. Additional risks not presently known to us or that our management currently deems immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the risks described below were to occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In such an event, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained in this Report, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward looking statements. See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Forward Looking Statements. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We have a limited operating history and have incurred significant losses to date, anticipate continuing to incur losses and may never achieve or sustain profitability. We are an early stage company with a limited operating history. We only recently began commercializing our products. To date, a substantial portion of our revenues has consisted of funding from third party collaborative research agreements and government grants. We have generated only limited revenues from commercial sales, which have been principally derived from sales of our nutrition and skin and personal care products. Although we expect a significant portion of our future revenues to come from commercial sales in the food ingredients, chemicals and fuels markets, only a small portion of our revenues to date has been generated from market development activities in those markets. We have incurred substantial net losses since our inception, including a net loss of $116.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2013. We expect these losses may continue as we expand our manufacturing capacity and build out our product pipeline. As of December 31, 2013, we had an accumulated deficit of $306.3 million. We expect to incur additional costs and expenses related to the continued development and expansion of our business, including research and development, the build-out and operation of our Peoria Facility, the construction and operation of the Solazyme Bunge JV production facility (described below), the retrofitting and operation of the Clinton/Galva Facilities (as described below) and other commercial facilities. As a result, our annual and quarterly operating losses may continue in the short term. We, along with our development and commercialization partners, will need to develop products successfully, cost effectively produce them in large quantities, and market and sell them profitably. If we fail to become profitable, or if we are unable to fund our continuing losses, we may be unable to continue our business operations. There can be no assurance that we will ever achieve or sustain profitability. We have generated limited revenues from the sale of our products, and our business may fail if we are not able to successfully commercialize these products. We have had only limited product sales to date. If we are not successful in further advancing our existing commercial arrangements with strategic partners, developing new arrangements, or otherwise increasing our manufacturing capacity and securing reliable access to sufficient volumes of low-cost feedstock, we will be unable to generate meaningful revenues from our products. We are subject to the substantial risk of failure facing businesses seeking to develop products based on a new technology. Certain factors that could, alone or in combination, prevent us from successfully commercializing our products include: • our ability to secure reliable access to sufficient volumes of low-cost feedstock; • our ability to achieve commercial-scale production of our products on a cost effective basis and in a timely manner; • technical challenges with our production processes or with development of new products that we are not able to overcome; 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • our ability to consistently manufacture our products within specifications; • our ability to establish and maintain successful relationships with development, feedstock, manufacturing and commercialization partners; • our ability to gain market acceptance of our products with customers and maintain customer relationships; • our ability to manage our growth; • our ability to secure and maintain necessary regulatory approvals for the production, distribution and sale of our products and to comply with applicable laws and regulations; • actions of direct and indirect competitors that may seek to enter the markets in which we expect to compete or that may seek to impose barriers to one or more markets that we intend to target; and • public concerns about the ethical, legal, environmental and social ramifications of the use of targeted recombinant technology, land use and the potential diversion of resources from food production. The production of our microalgae-based products requires fermentable feedstock. The inability to obtain feedstock in sufficient quantities or in a timely and cost-effective manner may limit our ability to produce our products. A critical component of the production of our microalgae-based products is access to feedstock in sufficient quantities and at an acceptable price to enable commercial production and sale. Other than as described below, we currently purchase feedstock, such as sugarcane-based sucrose and corn-based dextrose, for the production of our products at prevailing market prices. We are currently in discussions with additional potential feedstock partners. We do not have any long-term supply agreements or other guaranteed access to feedstock other than (i) for the supply of feedstock to Solazyme Bunge Produtos Renováveis Ltda. (Solazyme Bunge Renewable Oils or the Solazyme Bunge JV) by our partner, Bunge Global Innovation, LLC and certain of its affiliates (Bunge), pursuant to our joint venture arrangement that includes a feedstock supply agreement, and (ii) pursuant to our strategic collaboration with Archer-Daniels-Midland Company (ADM) (Solazyme/ADM Collaboration) at the ADM facility in Clinton, Iowa (Clinton Facility). As we scale our production, we anticipate that the production of our microalgae-based products will require large volumes of feedstock, and we may not be able to contract with feedstock producers to secure sufficient quantities of feedstock at reasonable costs or at all. For example, corn-based dextrose feedstock for the Clinton Facility is being provided from ADM’s adjacent wet mill and sugarcane-based sucrose for the Solazyme Bunge JV facility in Moema, Brazil will be provided by Bunge. Corn and sugar are traded as commodities and are subject to price volatility. While we may seek to manage our exposure to fluctuations in the price of sugar and corn-based dextrose by entering into hedging transactions directly or through our joint venture or collaboration arrangements, we may not be successful in doing so. If we cannot access feedstock in the quantities we need at acceptable prices, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our food ingredients, chemicals, fuels and other products, and our business will suffer. We are currently in discussions with additional potential feedstock partners, but we cannot be sure that we will successfully execute additional long-term feedstock contracts on terms favorable to us, or at all. If we do not succeed in entering into long-term supply contracts or successfully hedge against our exposure to fluctuations in the price of feedstock, our costs and profit margins may fluctuate from period to period as we will remain subject to prevailing market prices. Although our plan is to enter into partnerships, such as the Solazyme Bunge JV and the Solazyme/ADM Collaboration, with feedstock providers to supply the feedstock necessary to produce our products, we cannot predict the future availability or price of such feedstock or be sure that our feedstock partners will be able to supply such feedstock in sufficient quantities or in a timely manner. The prices of feedstock depend on numerous factors outside of our or our partners’ control, including weather conditions, government programs and regulations, changes in global demand, rising or falling commodities and equities markets, and availability of 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements credit to producers. Crop yields and sugar content depend on weather conditions such as rainfall and temperature. Variable weather conditions have historically caused volatility in feedstock crop prices due to crop failures or reduced harvests. For example, excessive rainfall can adversely affect the supply of feedstock available for the production of our products by reducing the sucrose content of feedstock and limiting growers’ ability to harvest. Crop disease and pestilence can also occur from time to time and can adversely affect feedstock crop growth, potentially rendering useless or unusable all or a substantial portion of affected harvests. The limited amount of time during which feedstock crops keep their sugar content after harvest poses a risk of spoilage. Also, the fact that many feedstock crops are not themselves traded commodities limits our ability to substitute supply in the event of such an occurrence. If our ability to obtain feedstock crops is adversely affected by these or other conditions, our ability to produce our products will be impaired, and our business will be adversely affected. In the near term we believe Brazilian sugarcane-based sucrose will be an important feedstock for us. Along with the risks described above, Brazilian sugarcane prices may also increase due to, among other things, changes in the criteria set by the Conselho dos Produtores de Cana, Açúcar e Álcool (Council of Sugarcane, Sugar and Ethanol Producers), known as Consecana. Consecana is an industry association of producers of sugarcane, sugar and ethanol that sets market terms and prices for general supply, lease and partnership agreements and may change such prices and terms from time to time. Moreover, Brazil has a developed industry for producing ethanol from sugarcane, and if we have manufacturing operations in Brazil that do not have a partner providing the sugarcane feedstock, such as Bunge as part of the Solazyme Bunge JV, we will need to compete for sugarcane feedstock with ethanol producers. Such changes and competition could result in higher sugarcane prices and/or a significant decrease in the volume of sugarcane available for the production of our products, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We have entered into, and plan to enter into other, arrangements with feedstock producers to co-locate production at their existing mills, and if we are not able to complete and execute on these arrangements in a timely manner and on terms favorable to us, our business will be adversely affected. In April 2012, we entered into a Joint Venture Agreement with Bunge, forming the Solazyme Bunge JV, which is doing business as Solazyme Bunge Renewable Oils. The Joint Venture Agreement was amended in October 2013 to expand the field and product portfolio. The Solazyme Bunge JV will produce microalgae-based products in Brazil using our proprietary technology and sugarcane feedstock provided by Bunge. The Solazyme Bunge JV’s production facility is located adjacent to a sugarcane processing mill in Brazil that is owned by Bunge. The acquisition of the facility site by the Solazyme Bunge JV from the landowners is in process, is complex, is subject to multiple approvals from governmental authorities and will take time to complete. The construction of the Solazyme Bunge JV’s production facility began in June 2012, and commissioning is underway. We are targeting the production of commercially saleable product by the end of the first quarter of 2014, though such production could move into the second quarter. In addition, in May 2011, we entered a joint development agreement with Bunge that, among other things, advances our work on Brazilian sugarcane feedstocks and extends through September 2014. In May 2011, we entered into a Warrant Agreement, amended in August 2011, with Bunge Limited that vests upon the successful completion of milestones that target the completion of construction of the Solazyme Bunge JV facility with a nameplate capacity of 100,000 MT of output oil. We intend to continue to expand our manufacturing capacity by entering into additional agreements with feedstock producers that require them to invest some or all of the capital needed to build new production facilities to produce our products. In return, we expect to share in profits anticipated to be realized from the sale of these products. We are currently in discussions with additional potential feedstock and manufacturing partners. In November 2012, we and ADM entered into a Strategic Collaboration Agreement (Collaboration Agreement), establishing the Solazyme/ADM Collaboration for the production of microalgae-based products at the Clinton Facility. The Clinton Facility will utilize our proprietary microbe-based catalysis technology. Feedstock for the facility will be provided from ADM’s adjacent wet mill. Under the terms of the Collaboration Agreement, we agreed to pay ADM annual fees for use and operation of a portion of the Clinton Facility, a portion of which may be paid in our common stock. In addition, we have granted to ADM a warrant covering 500,000 shares of our common stock, which vests in equal monthly installments over five years, commencing in 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements November 2013. The initial target nameplate capacity of the facility is expected to be 20,000 MT per year of tailored triglyceride oil, which we are targeting to attain 12-18 months after commencement of commercial production, which occurred in January 2014. We have an option to expand the capacity to 40,000 MT per year, with the potential to further expand production to 100,000 MT per year. Since the third quarter of 2013, downstream processing of products manufactured at the Clinton Facility has been performed at a finishing facility in Galva, Iowa (Galva Facility), which is operated by our long-term partner, a wholly owned subsidiary of American Natural Processors, Inc. (Clinton/Galva Facilities). There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet our capacity target of 20,000 MT per year as the Clinton Facility is ramped up or that the capacity of the facility will be expanded. We and ADM are also working together to develop markets for the products produced at the Clinton Facility. There can be no assurance that a sufficient number of other sugar or other feedstock mill owners will accept the opportunity to partner with us for the production of our microalgae-based products. Reluctance on the part of mill owners may be caused, for example, by their failure to understand our technology or product opportunities or their belief that greater economic benefits can be achieved from partnering with others. Mill owners may also be reluctant or unable to obtain needed capital; alternatively, if mill owners are able to obtain debt financing, we may be required to provide a guarantee. Limitations in the credit markets, such as those experienced in the recent economic downturn or historically in developing nations as a result of government monetary policies designed in response to very high rates of inflation, would impede or prevent this kind of financing and could adversely affect our ability to develop the production capacity needed to allow us to grow our business. Mill owners may also be limited by existing contractual obligations with other third parties, liability, health and safety concerns and additional maintenance, training, operating and other ongoing expenses. Even if additional feedstock partners are willing to co-locate our production at their mills, they may do so only on economic terms that place more of the cost, or confer less of the economic return, on us than we currently anticipate. If we are not successful in negotiations with mill owners, our cost of securing additional manufacturing capacity may be higher than anticipated in terms of up-front costs, capital expenditure or lost future returns, and we may not gain the manufacturing capacity that we need to grow our business. Our pursuit of new product opportunities may not be technologically feasible or cost effective, which would limit our ability to expand our product line and sources of revenues. We have committed, and intend to continue to commit, substantial resources, alone or with collaboration partners, to the development and analysis of new tailored oils and other microalgae-based products by applying recombinant technology to our microalgae strains. There is no guarantee that we will be successful in creating new tailored oil profiles, or other microalgae-based products, that we, our partners or their customers desire. There are significant technological hurdles in successfully applying recombinant technology to microalgae, and if we are unsuccessful at engineering microalgae strains that produce desirable tailored oils and other microalgae-based products, the number and size of the markets we will be able to address will be limited, our expected profit margins could be reduced and the potential profitability of our business could be compromised. The successful development of our business depends on our ability to efficiently and cost-effectively produce microalgae-based products at large commercial scale. Two of the significant drivers of our production costs are the level of productivity and conversion yield of our microalgae strains. For example, with respect to oil, productivity is principally a function of the amount of oil that can be obtained from a given volume over a particular time period. Conversion yield refers to the amount of the desired oil that can be produced from a fixed amount of feedstock. We may not be able to meet our currently expected production cost profile as we bring large commercial manufacturing capacity online. If we cannot do so, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Production of both current and future oils and other microalgae-based products will require that our technology and processes be scalable from laboratory, pilot and demonstration projects to large commercial-scale production. 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We do not have experience constructing, ramping up or managing large, commercial-scale manufacturing facilities. We may not have identified all of the factors that could affect our manufacturing processes. Our technology may not perform as expected when applied at large commercial scale, or we may encounter operational challenges for which we are unable to identify a workable solution. For example, contamination in the production process, equipment failure or accidents, problems with plant utilities, human error, issues arising from process modifications to reduce costs and adjust product specifications, and other similar challenges could decrease process efficiency, create delays and increase our costs. To date we have employed our technology using fermenters with a capacity of up to approximately 500,000 liters. However, we still need to demonstrate that we can reach our target cost structure including the achievement of target yields and productivities at approximately 500,000 liter scale in Iowa and approximately 625,000 liter scale in Brazil. We may not be able to scale up our production in a timely manner, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unable to manufacture products at a large commercial scale, our ability to commercialize our technology will be adversely affected, and, with respect to any products that we do bring to market, we may not be able to achieve and maintain an acceptable production cost profile, which would adversely affect our ability to reach, maintain and increase the profitability of our business. We rely in part on third parties for the production and processing of our products. If these parties do not produce and process our products at a satisfactory quality, in a timely manner, in sufficient quantities and at an acceptable cost, our development and commercialization efforts could be delayed or otherwise negatively impacted. Other than our Peoria Facility, we do not own facilities that can produce and process our products other than at small scale. As such, we rely, and we expect to continue to rely, at least partially, on third parties (including partners and contract manufacturers) for the production and processing of our products. Currently, we have two manufacturing arrangements for industrial fermentation: an agreement for the manufacture of certain products by the Solazyme Bunge JV pursuant to a joint venture arrangement and the manufacture of products at the Clinton Facility. We also have manufacturing agreements relating to other aspects of our production process. Our current and anticipated future dependence upon our partners and contract manufacturers for the production and processing of our products may adversely affect our ability to develop products on a timely and competitive basis. The failure of any of our counterparties to provide acceptable products could delay the development and commercialization of our products. We or our partners will need to enter into additional agreements for the commercial development, manufacturing and sale of our products. There can be no assurance that we or our partners can do so on favorable terms, if at all. Even if we reach agreements with manufacturing partners to produce and process our products, initially the partners will be unfamiliar with our technology and production processes. We cannot be sure that the partners will have or develop the operational expertise needed to run the equipment and processes required to manufacture our products. Further, we may have limited control over the amount or timing of resources that any partner is able or willing to devote to production and processing of our products. To date, our products have been produced and processed in quantities sufficient for our development work and initial commercial sales. For example, we delivered more than 400,000 liters (373 MT) of microalgae-derived military marine diesel and jet fuel to the US Navy in 2011. Even if there is demand for our products at a commercial scale, we or our partners may not be able to successfully increase the production capacity for any of our products in a timely or economic manner or at all. In addition, to the extent we are relying on contract manufacturers to produce and process our products, we cannot be sure that such contract manufacturers will have capacity available when we need their services, that they will be willing to dedicate a portion of their production and/or processing capacity to our products or that we will be able to reach acceptable price and other terms with them for the provision of their production and/or processing services. If we, our partners or our contract manufacturers are unable to increase the production capacity for a product when and as needed, the commercial launch of that product may be delayed, or there may be a shortage of supply, which could limit sales, cause us to lose customers and sales opportunities and impair the growth of our business. In addition, if a facility or the equipment in a facility that produces and/or processes our products is significantly damaged, destroyed or otherwise becomes unavailable, we or our partners may be unable to replace the manufacturing 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements capacity quickly or cost effectively. The inability to enter into manufacturing agreements, the damage or destruction of a facility upon which we or our partners rely for manufacturing or any other delays in obtaining supply would delay or prevent us and/or our partners from further developing and commercializing our products. We may experience significant delays and/or cost overruns in financing, designing, constructing and ramping up large commercial manufacturing facilities, which could result in harm to our business and prospects. Our business plan contemplates bringing significant commercial manufacturing capacity online over the next several years. In order to meet our capital requirements for those facilities, we may have to raise additional funds and may be unable to do so in a timely manner, in sufficient amounts and on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. If we fail to raise sufficient funds, our ability to finance and construct additional manufacturing facilities could be significantly limited. If this happens, we may be forced to delay the commercialization of our products and we will not be able to successfully execute our business plan, which would harm our business. The Solazyme Bunge JV is currently constructing a production facility adjacent to Bunge’s Moema sugarcane mill in Brazil, and commissioning is underway. We are targeting the production of commercially saleable product by the end of the first quarter of 2014, though such production could move into the second quarter. The production facility is expected to have a name plate capacity of 100,000 MT of oil per year. In February 2013, the Solazyme Bunge JV entered a loan agreement with the Brazilian Development Bank (BNDES) for project financing. Funds borrowed under the loan agreement have supported the production facility in Brazil, including a portion of the construction costs of the facility. We have used a portion of our $35.0 million revolving facility with HSBC Bank, USA, National Association (HSBC) to support a bank guarantee of the BNDES loan. As a condition of the Solazyme Bunge JV drawing funds under the loan in excess of amounts supported by bank guarantees, we will be required to provide a corporate guarantee of a portion of the loan (in an amount that, when added to the amount supported by our bank guarantee, does not exceed our ownership percentage in the Solazyme Bunge JV). Negotiating the terms of the corporate guarantee documentation may take longer than anticipated and may contain terms that are not favorable to us. If we are unable to negotiate our corporate guarantee documentation on acceptable terms, the Solazyme Bunge JV may be unable to draw down the maximum amount available under the BNDES loan, it may have to seek additional financing and may not be able to raise sufficient additional funds on favorable terms, if at all. If the Solazyme Bunge JV is unable to secure additional financing, we will be required to fund our portion of the Solazyme Bunge JV’s capital requirements either from existing sources or seek additional financing. The acquisition of the facility site from the landowners is in process, is complex, is subject to multiple approvals of governmental authorities and will take time to complete. If the Solazyme Bunge JV is unable to acquire the facility site on reasonable terms, or at all, it may not be able to operate the production facility and may lose all or part of its investment in such facility. We will need to construct, or otherwise secure access to, and fund, additional capacity significantly greater than what we are in the process of building as we continue to commercialize our products. Some of our customers may ultimately require that we acquire access to multiple production facilities in order to diversify our manufacturing base. We are targeting the production of commercially saleable product at the Solazyme Bunge JV facility by the end of the first quarter of 2014, though such production could move into the second quarter. We also expect to bring online additional facilities in the future. Although we intend to enter into arrangements with third parties to meet our capacity targets, it is possible that we will need to construct our own facility or facilities to meet a portion or all of these targets. We have limited experience in the construction of commercial production facilities and, if we decide to construct our own facility, we will need to secure necessary funding, complete design and other plans needed for the construction of such facility and secure the requisite permits, licenses and other governmental approvals, and we may not be successful in doing so. The construction of any such facility would have to be completed on a timely basis and within an acceptable budget. In addition, there may be delays related to the acquisition of facility sites, which could delay the development and commercialization of our products. Any facility, whether owned by a third party or by us, must perform as designed once it is operational. If we encounter significant delays, cost overruns, engineering problems, equipment damage, accidents, equipment supply constraints or other serious challenges in bringing any of these 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements facilities online, we may be unable to meet our production goals in the time frame we have planned. In addition, we have limited experience in the management of manufacturing operations at large scale. We may not be successful in producing the amount and quality of oil or other microalgae-based products we anticipate in the facilities and our results of operations may suffer as a result. We have limited experience producing our products at commercial scale, and we will not succeed if we cannot maintain or decrease our production costs and effectively scale our technology and manufacturing processes. If we fail to maintain and successfully manage our existing, or enter into new, strategic collaborations, we may not be able to develop and commercialize many of our products and achieve or sustain profitability. Our ability to enter into, maintain and manage collaborations in our target markets is fundamental to the success of our business. We currently have joint venture, collaboration, research and development, supply and/or distribution agreements with various strategic partners. We currently rely on our partners, in part, for manufacturing and sales or marketing services and intend to continue to do so for the foreseeable future, and we intend to enter into other strategic collaborations to produce, market and sell other products we develop. However, we may not be successful in entering into collaborative arrangements with third parties for the production and sale and marketing of other products. Any failure to enter into collaborative arrangements on favorable terms could delay or hinder our ability to develop and commercialize our products and could increase our costs of development and commercialization. In the chemicals and fuels markets, we have entered into a joint venture arrangement with Bunge that will focus on the manufacture of products in Brazil for sale in the Brazilian market, and development agreements with various other partners. In addition, we have entered into a strategic collaboration with ADM for the manufacture of products to be sold primarily to the industrial and nutritionals markets in North America, and have entered into a commercial supply agreement with Unilever. In the skin and personal care market, we have entered into arrangements with Sephora S.A. and its affiliates (Sephora), QVC, Inc. and others. There can be no guarantee that we can successfully manage these strategic collaborations. Under our agreement with Sephora, we bear a significant portion of the costs and risk of marketing the products, but do not exercise sole control of marketing strategy. In some cases, we will need to meet certain milestones to continue our activities with these partners. Moreover, the exclusivity provisions of certain strategic arrangements limit our ability to otherwise commercialize our products. Pursuant to the agreements listed above and similar arrangements that we may enter into in the future, we may have limited or no control over the amount or timing of resources that any partner is able or willing to devote to our products or collaborative efforts. Any of our partners may fail to perform their obligations as expected. These partners may breach or terminate their agreements with us or otherwise fail to conduct their collaborative activities successfully and in a timely manner. Further, our partners may not develop products arising out of our arrangements or devote sufficient resources to the development, manufacture, marketing, or sale of our products. Dependence on collaborative arrangements will also subject us to other risks, including: • we may be required to relinquish important rights, including intellectual property, marketing and distribution rights; • we may disagree with our partners as to rights to intellectual property we develop, or their research programs or commercialization activities; • we may have lower revenues than if we were to market and distribute such products ourselves; • a partner could separately develop and market a competing product either independently or in collaboration with others, including our competitors; • a partner could divest assets that are critical to our or our joint venture’s operations to a third party that is less willing to cooperate with us or is less incentivized or able to manage such assets in a way that helps us achieve our operational and financial goals; 24 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • our partners could become unable or less willing to expend their resources on research and development or commercialization efforts due to general market conditions, their financial condition or other circumstances beyond our control; • we may be unable to manage multiple simultaneous partnerships or collaborations; and • our partners may operate in countries where their operations could be adversely affected by changes in the local regulatory environment or by political unrest. Moreover, disagreements with a partner or former partner could develop, and any conflict with a partner or former partner could reduce our ability to enter into future collaboration agreements and negatively impact our relationships with one or more existing partners. In addition, disagreements with a partner or former partner could result in disputes or litigation and could require substantial time and money to resolve. If any of these events occurs, or if we fail to maintain our agreements with our partners, we may not be able to commercialize our existing and potential products, grow our business or generate sufficient revenues to support our operations. Additionally, our business could be negatively impacted if any of our partners undergoes a change of control or were to otherwise assign the rights or obligations under any of our agreements to a competitor of ours or to a third party who is not willing to work with us on the same terms or commit the same resources as the current partner. Our relationship with our strategic partner ADM may not prove successful. We have entered into the Solazyme/ADM Collaboration, which is focused on producing products at the Clinton Facility using our proprietary technology. Feedstock for the facility is being provided from ADM’s adjacent wet mill. Under the terms of the Collaboration Agreement, we will pay ADM annual fees for use and operation of a portion of the Clinton Facility, a portion of which may be paid in our common stock. Our ability to generate value from the Solazyme/ADM Collaboration will depend, among other things, on our ability to work cooperatively with ADM for the production of our products at the Clinton Facility. We may not be able to do so. For example, under the Solazyme/ADM Collaboration, ADM has agreed to provide feedstock and utility services to the Clinton Facility as well as operating services. ADM does not have previous experience working with our technology, and we cannot be sure that ADM will be successful in producing our products in the amounts we may require, at a satisfactory quality and/or in a cost-effective manner. Subject to limited exceptions and adjustments, we are responsible for annual fees regardless of ADM’s success in producing our products in acceptable quantities, at satisfactory quality and at acceptable costs. If production capacity is expanded at the Clinton Facility, there may be delays or cost overruns related to the retrofitting and permitting of the Clinton Facility, which would delay the increased production and commercialization of our products and could increase our costs. Furthermore, the agreements governing our Solazyme/ADM Collaboration are complex and cover a range of future activities, and disputes may arise between us and ADM that could delay the production and commercialization of our products or cause the termination of the Solazyme/ADM Collaboration. Additionally, downstream processing of products produced at the Clinton Facility is being performed at the facilities of third-party manufacturing partners. Any business or operations interruption at the facilities of such third parties could delay the production and commercialization of our products and could increase our costs. Our relationship with our strategic partner Bunge may not prove successful. We have entered into a joint venture with Bunge that will focus on the production of certain microalgae-based products in Brazil. In connection with the establishment of the Solazyme Bunge JV, we entered into a development agreement and other agreements with Bunge and the Solazyme Bunge JV. Our ability to generate value from the Solazyme Bunge JV will depend, among other things, on our ability to work cooperatively with Bunge and the Solazyme Bunge JV for the commercialization of the Solazyme Bunge 25 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements JV’s products. We may not be able to do so. For example, under the joint venture, Bunge has agreed to provide feedstock as well as utility services to the production facility. We and Bunge have both agreed to provide various administrative services to the Solazyme Bunge JV, and Bunge will also provide working capital to the Solazyme Bunge JV through a revolving loan facility, with a portion of the repayment for start-up expenses to be guaranteed by us. Bunge does not have previous experience working with our technology, and we cannot be sure that the Solazyme Bunge JV will be successful in commercializing its products. In addition, there may be delays related to the acquisition of the facility site from the landowners and delays or cost overruns in connection with the construction of the Solazyme Bunge JV production facility. There may also be delays in our negotiation of the corporate loan guarantee to be entered into as a condition of the Solazyme Bunge JV drawing down amounts in excess of amounts supported by bank guarantees under the loan agreement with BNDES. In addition, we will be required to maintain the required license, granted by the Sao Paulo State Environmental Department, to operate the production facility. Any negative event with respect to these issues would delay the development and commercialization of the Solazyme Bunge JV products. Furthermore, the agreements governing our partnership are complex and cover a range of future activities, and disputes may arise between us and Bunge that could delay completion of the Solazyme Bunge JV facility and/or the expansion of the Solazyme Bunge JV’s capacity and the development and commercialization of the Solazyme Bunge JV’s products or cause the dissolution of the Solazyme Bunge JV. Our joint venture with Roquette has been dissolved. We are currently in arbitration with Roquette as to several issues related to the dissolution of the joint venture. We may have other disputes with Roquette related to the joint venture and its business. In 2010, we entered into a 50/50 joint venture with Roquette Frères, S.A. (Roquette). As part of this relationship, we and Roquette formed Solazyme Roquette Nutritionals, LLC (SRN) through which both we and Roquette agreed to pursue certain opportunities in microalgae-based products for the food, nutraceuticals and animal feed markets. On June 21, 2013, we and Roquette agreed to dissolve SRN. On July 18, 2013, SRN was dissolved. As a result of the dissolution, the joint venture and operating agreement between us and Roquette, and the license agreement, whereby we licensed to SRN certain of our intellectual property, automatically terminated. SRN, we and Roquette are in the process of winding down the affairs of SRN. We and Roquette are currently engaged in an arbitration proceeding concerning several issues associated with the dissolution of SRN and the wind-down of its affairs. We cannot be sure that other disputes will not arise between us and Roquette related to the joint venture and its business. Such disagreements and disputes are costly, time-consuming to resolve and distracting to our management. Disputes regarding our intellectual property rights, and the rights of others (including Roquette) to manufacture and sell the products included in the SRN joint venture could delay or negatively impact our commercialization of products in the markets SRN was targeting. Any such disputes could be costly, time-consuming to resolve and distracting to our management. In addition, if our commercialization in these markets is delayed or unsuccessful, our financial results could be negatively impacted. We cannot be sure that our products will meet necessary standards or be approved or accepted by customers in our target markets. If we are unable to convince our potential customers or end users of our products that we are a reliable supplier, that our products are comparable or superior to the products that they currently use, or that the use of our products is otherwise beneficial to them, we will not be successful in entering our target markets and our business will be adversely affected. In the chemicals market, the potential customers for our or the Solazyme Bunge JV’s products are generally companies that have well-developed manufacturing processes and arrangements with suppliers for the chemical components of their products and may resist changing these processes and components. These potential customers 26 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements frequently impose lengthy and complex product qualification procedures on their suppliers, influenced by consumer preference, manufacturing considerations, supplier operating history, regulatory issues, product liability and other factors, many of which are unknown to, or not well understood by, us. Satisfying these processes may take many months or years. Although we produce products for the fuels market that comply with industry specifications, potential fuels customers may be reluctant to adopt new products. In addition, our fuels may need to satisfy product certification requirements of equipment manufacturers. For example, diesel engine manufacturers may need to certify that the use of diesel fuels produced from our oils in their equipment will not invalidate product warranties. In the nutrition market, our food ingredients will compete with oils and other food ingredients currently in use. Potential customers may not perceive a benefit to microalgae-based ingredients as compared to existing ingredients or may be otherwise unwilling to adopt their use. If consumer packaged goods (CPG) companies do not accept our food ingredients as ingredients for their widely distributed finished products, or if end customers are unwilling to purchase finished products made using our products, we will not be successful in competing in the nutrition market and our business will be adversely affected. In the skin and personal care market, our branded products are marketed directly to potential consumers, but we cannot be sure that consumers will continue to be attracted to our brands, be attracted to our new brands or products, or purchase our products on an ongoing basis. As a result, our branded products may not be successful, distribution partners may decide to discontinue marketing our products and our business will be adversely affected. We have entered into a limited number of binding, definitive commercial supply agreements that contain minimum volume commitments. We have also entered contingent offtake agreements and non-binding letters of intent with third parties regarding purchase of our products, but these agreements do not unconditionally obligate the other party to purchase any quantities of any products at this time. There can be no assurance that our contingent offtake agreements and non-binding letters of intent will lead to unconditional definitive agreements to purchase our products. We have limited experience in structuring arrangements with customers for the purchase of our microalgae-based products, and we may not be successful in this essential aspect of our business. We expect that our customers will include large companies that sell skin and personal care products, food products and chemical products, as well as large users of oils for fuels. Because we began commercializing our skin and personal care products in the last few years, have only recently begun to commercialize food ingredient products on our own, and are still in the process of developing our products for the food ingredients, oils, chemicals, fuels and other markets, we have limited experience operating in our customers’ industries and interacting with the customers that we intend to target. Developing the necessary expertise may take longer than we expect and will require that we expand and improve our sales and marketing capability, which could be costly. These activities could delay our ability to capitalize on the opportunities that we believe our technology and products present, and may prevent us from successfully commercializing our products. Further, we ultimately aim to sell large amounts of our products, and this will require that we effectively negotiate and manage contracts for these purchase and sale relationships. The companies with which we aim to have arrangements are generally much larger than we are and have substantially longer operating histories and more experience in their industries than we have. As a result, we may not succeed in establishing relationships with these companies and, if we do, we may not be effective in negotiating or managing the terms of such relationships, which could adversely affect our future results of operations. We may be subject to product liability claims and other claims of our customers and partners. The design, development, production and sale of our products involve an inherent risk of product liability claims and the associated adverse publicity. Because some of our ultimate products in each of our target markets 27 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements are used by consumers, and because use of those ultimate products may cause injury to those consumers and damage to property, we are subject to a risk of claims for such injuries and damages. In addition, we may be named directly in product liability suits relating to our products or third-party products integrating our products, even for defects resulting from errors of our partners, contract manufacturers or other third parties working with our products. These claims could be brought by various parties, including customers who are purchasing products directly from us or other users who purchase products from our customers or partners. We could also be named as co-parties in product liability suits that are brought against manufacturing partners that produce our products. In addition, our customers and partners may bring suits against us alleging damages for the failure of our products to meet stated claims, specifications or other requirements. Any such suits, even if not successful, could be costly, disrupt the attention of our management and damage our negotiations with other partners and/or customers. Although we often seek to limit our product liability in our contracts, such limits may not be enforceable or may be subject to exceptions. Our current product liability and umbrella insurance for our business may be inadequate to cover all potential liability claims. Insurance coverage is expensive and may be difficult to obtain. Also, insurance coverage may not be available in the future on acceptable terms and may not be sufficient to cover potential claims. We cannot be sure that our contract manufacturers or manufacturing partners who produce our ultimate products will have adequate insurance coverage to cover against potential claims. If we experience a large insured loss, it may exceed our coverage limits, or our insurance carrier may decline to further cover us or may raise our insurance rates to unacceptable levels, any of which could impair our financial position and potentially cause us to go out of business. We will face risks associated with our international business in developing countries and elsewhere. For the foreseeable future, our business plan will likely subject us to risks associated with essential manufacturing, sales and operations in developing countries. We have limited experience to date manufacturing and selling internationally and such expansion will require us to make significant expenditures, including the hiring of local employees and establishing facilities, in advance of generating any revenue. The economies of many of the countries in which we or our joint ventures operate or will operate have been characterized by frequent and occasionally extensive government intervention and unstable economic cycles. In addition, in Brazil, where the Solazyme Bunge JV is located, there are restrictions on the foreign ownership of land. As a result, the process for the acquisition by the Solazyme Bunge JV of the facility site from the landowners may be long, complicated and is subject to government approvals. International business operations are subject to local legal, political, regulatory and social requirements and economic conditions and our business, financial performance and prospects may be adversely affected by, among others, the following factors: • political, economic, diplomatic or social instability; • land reform movements; • tariffs, export or import restrictions, restrictions on remittances abroad or repatriation of profits, duties or taxes that limit our ability to move our products out of these countries or interfere with the import of essential materials into these countries; • inflation, changing interest rates and exchange controls; • tax burden and policies; • delays or failures in securing licenses, permits or other governmental approvals necessary to build and operate facilities and use our microalgae strains to produce products; • the imposition of limitations on products or processes and the production or sale of those products or processes; 28 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • uncertainties relating to foreign laws, including labor laws, regulations and restrictions, and legal proceedings; • foreign ownership rules and changes in regard thereto; • an inability, or reduced ability, to protect our intellectual property, including any effect of compulsory licensing imposed by government action; • successful compliance with US and foreign laws that regulate the conduct of business abroad, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; • insufficient investment in developing countries in public infrastructure, including transportation infrastructure, and disruption of transportation and logistics services; and • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations. These and other factors could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Our international operations may expose us to the risk of fluctuation in currency exchange rates and rates of foreign inflation, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We currently incur some costs and expenses in Euros and Brazilian Reais and expect in the future to incur additional expenses in these and other foreign currencies, and also derive a portion of our revenues in the local currencies of customers throughout the world. As a result, our revenues and results of operations are subject to foreign exchange fluctuations, which we may not be able to manage successfully. During the past few decades, the Brazilian currency in particular has faced frequent and substantial exchange rate fluctuations in relation to the US dollar and other foreign currencies. There can be no assurance that the Real or the Euro will not significantly appreciate or depreciate against the US dollar in the future. We bear the risk that the rate of inflation in the foreign countries where we incur costs and expenses or the decline in value of the US dollar compared to those foreign currencies will increase our costs as expressed in US dollars. Future measures by foreign governments to control inflation, including interest rate adjustments, intervention in the foreign exchange market and changes to the fixed value of their currencies, may trigger increases in inflation. We may not be able to adjust the prices of our products to offset the effects of inflation on our cost structure, which could increase our costs and reduce our net operating margins. If we do not successfully manage these risks through hedging or other mechanisms, our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may encounter difficulties managing our growth, and we will need to properly prioritize our efforts in three distinct target markets as our business grows. If we are unable to do so, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our business has grown rapidly. Continued growth may place a strain on our human and capital resources. Furthermore, we intend to conduct our business internationally and anticipate business operations in the United States, Europe, Latin America and elsewhere. These diversified, global operations place increased demands on our limited resources and may require us to substantially expand the capabilities of our administrative and operational resources and will require us to attract, train, manage and retain qualified management, technicians, scientists and other personnel. As our operations expand domestically and internationally, we will need to continue to manage multiple locations and additional relationships with various customers, partners, suppliers and other third parties across several product categories and markets. Our growth is taking place across three distinct target markets: chemicals and fuels, nutrition, and skin and personal care. We will be required to prioritize our limited financial and managerial resources as we pursue particular development and commercialization efforts in each target market. Any resources we expend on one or more of these efforts could be at the expense of other potentially profitable opportunities. If we focus our efforts and resources on one or more of these markets and they do not lead to commercially viable products, our 29 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements revenues, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Furthermore, as our operations continue to grow, the simultaneous management of development, production and commercialization across all three target markets will become increasingly complex and may result in less than optimal allocation of management and other administrative resources, increase our operating expenses and harm our operating results. Our ability to effectively manage our operations, growth and various projects across our target markets will require us to make additional investments in our infrastructure to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures and to attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees, which we may be unable to do effectively. We may be unable to successfully manage our expenses in the future, which may negatively impact our gross margins or operating margins in any particular quarter. In addition, we may not be able to improve our management information and control systems, including our internal control over financial reporting, to a level necessary to manage our growth and we may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls that we may not be able to remediate in an efficient or timely manner. Our success depends in part on recruiting and retaining key personnel and, if we fail to do so, it may be more difficult for us to execute our business strategy. We are currently a small organization and will need to hire additional personnel to execute our business strategy successfully. Our success depends on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management, business development, manufacturing and scientific personnel and directors, and on our ability to develop and maintain important relationships with leading academic institutions and scientists. We are highly dependent upon a number of key members of our senior management, including manufacturing, business development and scientific personnel, and on our directors. If any of such persons left, our business could be harmed. All of our employees and directors are at-will and may resign at anytime. The loss of the services of one or more of our key employees, or directors could delay or have an impact on the successful commercialization of our products. We do not maintain any key man insurance. Competition for qualified personnel in the biotechnology field is intense, particularly in the San Francisco Bay Area. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel on acceptable terms given the competition for such personnel. If we are unsuccessful in our recruitment efforts, we may be unable to execute our strategy. We may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for the sale of our microalgae-based products and the operation of production facilities, and, even if approvals are obtained, complying on an ongoing basis with the numerous regulatory requirements applicable to our various product categories and facilities will be time-consuming and costly. The sale and/or use of diesel and jet fuels produced from our oils are subject to regulation by various government agencies, including the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the California Air Resources Board in the United States. To date, we have registered only our SoladieselRD® fuel in the United States. We or our refining or commercialization partners or customers may be required to register our fuel in the United States, with the European Commission and elsewhere before selling our products. Our chemical products may be subject to government regulation in our target markets. In the United States, the EPA administers the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA), which regulates the commercial registration, distribution, and use of chemicals. TSCA will require us to comply with the Microbial Commercial Activity Notice (MCAN) process to manufacture and distribute products made from our recombinant microalgae strains. An MCAN is not required for non-recombinant strains. To date, we have filed MCANs for certain of our recombinant microalgae strains, some of which have been dropped from review, and expect to file additional MCANs in the future. Before we can manufacture or distribute significant volumes of a chemical, we need to determine whether that chemical is listed in the TSCA inventory. If the substance is listed, then manufacture or distribution can 30 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements commence immediately. If not, then a pre-manufacture notice (PMN) must be filed with the EPA for a review period of up to 90 days excluding extensions. We have filed PMNs for certain of our products and expect to file additional PMNs in the future. Some of the products we produce or plan to produce are already eligible to be placed on the TSCA inventory. Others are not yet listed. We may not be able to expediently receive approval from the EPA to list the chemicals we would like to make on the TSCA registry, resulting in delays or significant increases in testing requirements. A similar program exists in the European Union, called REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of Chemical Substances). We are required to register some of our products with the European Commission, and this process could cause delays or significant costs. We have determined that some of our algal oils are exempt from REACH registration requirements. To the extent that other geographies, such as Brazil, may rely on the TSCA or REACH for chemical registration in their geographies, delays with the US or European authorities may subsequently delay entry into these markets as well. Furthermore, other geographies may have their own chemical inventory requirements, which may delay entry into these markets, irrespective of US or European approval. Our nutrition products are subject to regulation by various government agencies, including the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA), state and local agencies and similar agencies outside the United States. Food ingredients are regulated either as food additives or as substances generally recognized as safe, or GRAS. A substance can be listed or affirmed as GRAS by the FDA or self-affirmed by its manufacturer upon determination that independent qualified experts would generally agree that the substance is GRAS for a particular use. A GRAS Notice of Determination for algal oil was submitted to the FDA, and notification was received from the FDA in June 2012 that it had no further questions. A GRAS Notice of Determination for whole algal flour was submitted to the FDA, and notification was received from the FDA that it had no further questions. If the FDA were to disagree with the conclusions in future GRAS Notices of Determination, they could ask that the products be voluntarily withdrawn from the market or could initiate legal action to halt their sale. Such actions by the FDA could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of our operations. Food ingredients that are not GRAS are regulated as food additives and require FDA approval prior to commercialization. The food additive petition process is generally expensive and time consuming, with approval, if secured, taking years. The sale of ingredients for use in animal feed is regulated by agencies including the FDA Center for Veterinary medicine (CVM). Regulatory requirements for suitability must be met by providing data from studies, which may cause delays and the incursion of additional costs. Our skin and personal care products are subject to regulation by various government agencies both within and outside the United States. Such regulations principally relate to the ingredients, labeling, packaging and marketing of our skin and personal care products. Changes in regulatory requirements, laws and policies, or evolving interpretations of existing regulatory requirements, laws and policies, may result in increased compliance costs, delays, capital expenditures and other financial obligations that could adversely affect our business or financial results. We expect to encounter regulations in most if not all of the countries in which we may seek to sell our products, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary approvals in a timely manner or at all. If our products do not meet applicable regulatory requirements in a particular country or at all, then we may not be able to commercialize them and our business will be adversely affected. The various regulatory schemes applicable to our products will continue to apply following initial approval for sale. Monitoring regulatory changes and ensuring our ongoing compliance with applicable requirements will be time-consuming and may affect our results of operations. If we fail to comply with such requirements on an ongoing basis, we may be subject to fines or other penalties, or may be prevented from selling our products, and our business may be harmed. The construction and operation of our, our partners’ or our joint ventures’ production facilities are likely to require government approvals. If we are not able to obtain or maintain the necessary approvals in a timely manner or at all, our business will be adversely affected. In February 2014, the Sao Paulo State Environmental Department granted a license to operate the Solazyme Bunge JV facility, which is necessary to begin commercial production. 31 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We may incur significant costs complying with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, and failure to comply with these laws and regulations could expose us to significant liabilities. We use hazardous chemicals and radioactive and biological materials in our business and are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and international laws and regulations governing, among other matters, the use, generation, manufacture, transportation, storage, handling, disposal of, and human exposure to, these materials both in the US and outside the US, including regulation by governmental regulatory agencies, such as the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and the EPA. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures and other costs in the ordinary course of our business in complying with these laws and regulations. Although we have implemented safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials and waste products in an effort to comply with these laws and regulations, we cannot be sure that our safety measures will be compliant or capable of eliminating the risk of injury or contamination from the generation, manufacturing, use, storage, transportation, handling, disposal of, and human exposure to, hazardous materials. Failure to comply with environmental, health and safety laws could subject us to liability and resulting damages. There can be no assurance that violations of environmental, health and safety laws will not occur as a result of human error, accident, equipment failure or other causes. Compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and the failure to comply with past, present, or future laws could result in the imposition of fines, regulatory oversight costs, third party property damage, product liability and personal injury claims, investigation and remediation costs, the suspension of production, or a cessation of operations, and our liability may exceed our total assets. Liability under environmental laws, such as the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act in the United States, can impose liability for the full amount of damages, without regard to comparative fault for the investigation and cleanup of contamination and impacts to human health and for damages to natural resources. Contamination at properties we own and operate, and at properties to which we send hazardous materials, may result in liability for us under environmental laws and regulations. Our business and operations will be affected by other new environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, which may affect our research and development and manufacturing programs, and environmental laws could become more stringent over time, requiring us to change our operations, or resulting in greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with violations, which could impair our research, development or production efforts and harm our business. The costs of complying with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, and any claims concerning noncompliance, or liability with respect to contamination in the future could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or operating results. Changes in government regulations, including subsidies and economic incentives, could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products, business or results of operations. The market for renewable fuels is heavily influenced by foreign, federal, state and local government regulations and policies. Changes to existing, or adoption of new, domestic or foreign federal, state or local legislative initiatives that impact the production, distribution, sale or import and export of renewable fuels may harm our business. For example, in 2007, the Energy Independence and Security Act (EISA) of 2007 set targets for alternative sourced liquid transportation fuels (approximately 14 billion gallons in 2011, increasing to 36 billion gallons by 2022). Of the 2022 target amount, a minimum of 21 billion gallons must be advanced biofuels. In the US and in a number of other countries, these regulations and policies have been modified in the past and may be modified again in the future. For example, in 2013, the US Environmental Protection Agency proposed a reduction in the volume of total alternative fuel from the 2014 statutory target of 18.15 billion gallons to 15.21 billion gallons. Under this new proposed target, the advanced biofuel target would be reduced to 2.2 billion gallons from the 2014 statutory target of 3.75 billion gallons. The elimination of, or any additional reduction in, mandated requirements for fuel alternatives and additives to gasoline may cause demand for biofuels to decline and deter investment in the research, development or commercial adoption of renewable fuels. In addition, the US Congress has passed legislation that extends tax credits to blenders of certain renewable fuel products. However, there is no assurance that this or any other favorable legislation will remain in place. For 32 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements example, the biodiesel tax credit expired in December 2009 and its extension was not approved until March 2010. The most recent biodiesel tax credit expired in December 2013 and its extension has thus far not been approved. Any reduction in, phasing out or elimination of existing tax credits, subsidies and other incentives in the US and foreign markets for renewable fuels, or any inability of our customers to access such credits, subsidies and incentives, may adversely affect demand for our fuel products and increase the overall cost of commercialization of our renewable fuels, which would adversely affect our business. In addition, market uncertainty regarding future policies may also affect our ability to develop new renewable products, license our technologies to third parties and sell products to end customers. Any inability to address these requirements and any regulatory or policy changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Conversely, government programs could increase investment and competition in the markets for our products. For example, various governments have announced a number of spending programs focused on the development of clean technology, including alternatives to petroleum-based fuels and the reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, which could lead to increased funding for us or our competitors, or the rapid increase in the number of competitors within our markets. Concerns associated with renewable fuels, including land usage, national security interests and food crop usage, are receiving legislative, industry and public attention. This could result in future legislation, regulation and/or administrative action that could adversely affect our business. When and how these requirements and any regulatory or policy changes are addressed could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Future government policies may adversely affect the supply of sugarcane, corn or cellulosic sugars, restricting our ability to use these feedstocks to produce our products, and negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. We may face risks relating to the use of our targeted recombinant microalgae strains, and if we are not able to secure regulatory approval for the use of these strains or if we face material ethical, legal and social concerns about our use of targeted recombinant technology, our business could be adversely affected. The use of microorganisms designed using targeted recombinant technology, such as some of our microalgae strains, is subject to laws and regulations in many states and countries, some of which are new and still evolving and interpreted by fact specific application. In the United States, the EPA regulates the commercial use of microorganisms designed using targeted recombinant technology as well as potential products derived from them. We expect to encounter regulations of microorganisms designed using targeted recombinant technology in most if not all of the countries in which we may seek to establish manufacturing operations, and the scope and nature of these regulations will likely be different from country to country. For example, in the US, when used in an industrial process, our microalgae strains designed using targeted recombinant technology may be considered new chemicals under the TSCA, administered by the EPA. We will be required to comply with the EPA’s process. In Brazil, microorganisms designed using targeted recombinant technology are regulated by the National Biosafety Technical Commission, or CTNBio. In March 2013, we submitted an application for approval from CTNBio to use a specific microalgae strain designed using targeted recombinant technology in a contained environment in order to use these microalgae for research and development and commercial production purposes in any facilities we establish in Brazil. We obtained approval for this application from CTNBio in October 2013. In February 2014, CTNBio granted a CQB (Certificate of Quality in Biosafety) to the Moema plant for activities including industrial production, import and export, disposal and storage of our key production organisms. If we cannot meet the applicable requirements in Brazil and other countries in which we intend to produce microalgae-based products, or if it takes longer than anticipated to obtain such approvals, our business could be adversely affected. 33 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The subject of organisms designed using targeted recombinant technology has received negative publicity, which has aroused public debate. Public attitudes about the safety and environmental hazards of, and ethical concerns over, genetic research and microorganisms designed using targeted recombinant technology could influence public acceptance of our technology and products. In addition, shifting public attitudes regarding, and potential changes to laws governing, ownership of genetic material could harm our intellectual property rights with respect to our genetic material and discourage collaborators from supporting, developing, or commercializing our products, processes and technologies. Governmental reaction to negative publicity concerning organisms designed using targeted recombinant technology could result in greater government regulation of or trade restrictions on imports of genetic research and derivative products. If we and/or our collaborators are not able to overcome the ethical, legal, and social concerns relating to the use of targeted recombinant technology, our products and processes may not be accepted or we could face increased expenses, delays or other impediments to their commercialization. We expect to face competition for our products in the chemicals and fuels markets from providers of products based on petroleum, plant oils and animal fats and from other companies seeking to provide alternatives to these products, many of whom have greater resources and experience than we do. If we cannot compete effectively against these companies or products, we may not be successful in bringing our products to market or further growing our business. In the chemical market, we will compete with the established providers of oils currently used in chemical products. Producers of these incumbent products include global oil companies, including those selling agricultural products such as palm oil, palm kernel oil, castor bean oil and sunflower oil, large international chemical companies and other companies specializing in specific products or essential oils. We may also compete in one or more of these markets with manufacturers of other products such as highly refined petrochemicals, synthetic polymers and other petroleum-based fluids and lubricants as well as new market entrants offering renewable products. In the transportation fuels market, we expect to compete with independent and integrated oil refiners, large oil and gas companies and, in certain fuels markets, with other companies producing advanced biofuels. The refiners compete with us by selling conventional fuel products, and some are also pursuing hydrocarbon fuel production using non-renewable feedstocks, such as natural gas and coal, as well as production using renewable feedstocks, such as vegetable oil and biomass. We also expect to compete with companies that are developing the capacity to produce diesel and other transportation fuels from renewable resources in other ways. These include advanced biofuels companies using specific engineered enzymes that they have developed to convert cellulosic biomass, which is non-food plant material such as wood chips, corn stalks and sugarcane bagasse, into fermentable sugars and ultimately, renewable diesel and other fuels. Biodiesel companies convert vegetable oils and animal oils into diesel fuel and some are seeking to produce diesel and other transportation fuels using thermochemical methods to convert biomass into renewable fuels. We believe the primary competitive factors in both the chemicals and fuels markets are product price, product performance, sustainability, availability of supply and compatibility of products with existing infrastructure. The oil companies, large chemical companies and well-established agricultural products companies with whom we expect to compete are much larger than we are, have, in most cases, well-developed distribution systems and networks for their products, have valuable historical relationships with the potential customers we are seeking to serve and have much more extensive sales and marketing programs in place to promote their products. Some of our competitors may use their influence to impede the development and acceptance of our products. Our limited resources relative to many of our competitors may cause us to fail to anticipate or respond adequately to new developments and other competitive pressures. In the nascent markets for renewable chemicals and fuels, it is difficult to predict which, if any, market entrants will be successful, and we may lose market share to competitors producing new or existing renewable products. 34 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We expect to face competition for our nutrition and skin and personal care products from other companies in these fields, many of whom have greater resources and experience than we do. If we cannot compete effectively against these companies or their products, we may not be successful in selling our products or further growing our business. We expect that our nutrition products will compete with providers in both the specialty and mass food ingredient markets. Many of these companies, such as Cargill, Incorporated, Monsanto Company, Syngenta AG and Roquette S.A., are larger than we are, have well-developed distribution systems and networks for their products and have valuable historical relationships with the potential customers and distributors we hope to serve. We may also compete with companies seeking to produce nutrition products based on renewable oils, including DSM Food Specialties and DuPont Nutrition & Health. Our success in the development of nutrition products will depend on our ability to effectively compete with established companies and successfully commercialize our products. In the skin and personal care market, we expect to compete with established companies and brands with loyal customer followings. The market for skin and personal care products is characterized by strong established brands, loyal brand following and heavy brand marketing. We will compete with companies with well-known brands such as Kinerase®, Perricone MD®, and StriVectin®. These companies have greater sales and marketing resources than us. We will also compete in the mass consumer market. Some of our competitors in this market have well-known brands such as Meaningful Beauty® and Principal Secret® and have substantially greater sales and marketing resources than us. We have limited experience in the skin and personal care market. We will need to continue to devote substantial resources to the marketing of our products and there can be no assurance that we will be successful. A decline in the price of petroleum and petroleum-based products, plant oils or other commodities may reduce demand for our products and may otherwise adversely affect our business. We believe that some of the present and projected demand for renewable fuels results from relatively recent increases in the cost of petroleum and certain plant oils. We anticipate that most of our oils, and in particular those used to produce fuels, will be marketed as alternatives to corresponding products based on petroleum and plant oils. If the price of any of these oils falls, we may be unable to produce tailored oils or other products that are cost-effective alternatives to their petroleum or plant oil-based counterparts. Declining oil prices, or the perception of a future decline in oil prices, may adversely affect the prices we can obtain from our potential customers or prevent potential customers from entering into agreements with us to buy our products. During sustained periods of lower oil prices we may be unable to sell our products, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Petroleum prices have been extremely volatile, and this volatility is expected to persist. Lower petroleum prices over extended periods of time may change the perceptions in government and the private sector that cheaper, more readily available energy alternatives should be developed and produced. If petroleum prices were to decline from present levels and remain at lower levels for extended periods of time, the demand for renewable fuels could be reduced, and our business and revenue may be harmed. Prices of plant oils have also experienced significant volatility. If prices for oils such as palm kernel were to materially decrease in the future, there may be less demand for oil alternatives, which could reduce demand for our products and harm our business. The prices of commodities that serve as food ingredients have also been volatile. To the extent that the prices of these commodities decline and remain at lower levels for extended periods of time, the demand for our nutrition products may be reduced, and our ability to successfully compete in this market may be harmed. Our information technology systems, processes and sites may suffer a significant breach or disruption that may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. Our information technology systems, some of which are dependent on services provided by third parties, provide critical data and services for internal and external users, including procurement and inventory 35 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements management, transaction processing, financial, commercial and operational data, human resources management, legal and tax compliance information and other information and processes necessary to operate and manage our business. Our information technology and infrastructure may experience attacks by hackers, breaches or other failures or disruptions that could compromise our systems and the information stored there. While we have implemented security measures and disaster recovery plans designed to protect the security and continuity of our networks and critical systems, these measures may not adequately prevent adverse events such as breaches or failures from occurring or mitigate their severity if they do occur. If our information technology systems are breached, damaged or fail to function properly due to any number of causes, such as security breaches or cyber based attacks, systems implementation difficulties, catastrophic events or power outages, and our security, contingency or disaster recovery plans do not effectively mitigate these occurrences on a timely basis, we may experience a material disruption in our ability to manage our business operations. We may also be subject to legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, potential regulatory penalties and damage to our reputation. These impacts may adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition, as well as our competitive position. Our facilities in California are located near an earthquake fault, and an earthquake or other natural disaster or resource shortage could disrupt our operations. Important documents and records, such as hard copies of our laboratory books and records for our products and some of our manufacturing operations, are located in our corporate headquarters in South San Francisco, California, near active earthquake zones. In the event of a natural disaster, such as an earthquake, drought or flood, or localized extended outages of critical utilities or transportation systems, we do not have a formal business continuity or disaster recovery plan, and could therefore experience a significant business interruption. In addition, California from time to time has experienced shortages of water, electric power and natural gas. Future shortages and conservation measures could disrupt our operations and could result in additional expense. Although we maintain business interruption insurance coverage, we do not maintain earthquake or flood coverage. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Our competitive position depends on our ability to effectively obtain and enforce patents related to our products, manufacturing components and manufacturing processes. If we or our licensors fail to adequately protect this intellectual property, our ability and/or our partners’ ability to commercialize products could suffer. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection sufficient to prevent others from utilizing our manufacturing components, manufacturing processes or marketing our products, as well as to successfully defend and enforce our patents against infringement by others. In order to protect our products, manufacturing components and manufacturing processes from unauthorized use by third parties, we must hold patent rights that cover our products, manufacturing components and manufacturing processes. The patent position of biotechnology and bio-industrial companies can be highly uncertain because obtaining and determining the scope of patent rights involves complex legal and factual questions. The standards applied by the US Patent and Trademark Office and foreign patent offices in granting patents are not always applied uniformly or predictably. There is no uniform worldwide policy regarding patentable subject matter, the scope of claims allowable in biotechnology and bio-industrial patents, or the formal requirements to obtain such patents. Consequently, patents may not issue from our pending patent applications. Furthermore, in the process of seeking patent protection or even after a patent is granted, we could become subject to expensive and protracted proceedings, including patent interference, opposition, post-grant review and re-examination proceedings, which could invalidate or narrow the scope of our patent rights. As such, we do not know nor can we predict the scope and/or breadth of patent protection that we might obtain on our products and technology. Changes either in patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property rights. In the US, depending on the decisions and actions 36 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements taken by the US Congress, the federal courts, and the US Patent and Trademark Office, the laws and regulations governing patents could change in unpredictable ways that would weaken our ability to obtain new patents or to enforce our existing patents and patents that we might obtain in the future. In foreign jurisdictions, depending on the decisions and actions taken by the foreign government, the judicial system of the jurisdiction, and its patent office, the laws and regulations governing patents could change in unpredictable ways that could weaken our ability to obtain new patents or to enforce our existing patents or patents that we might obtain in the future. The America Invents Act (AIA), which was signed into law on September 16, 2011, brought a number of changes to the US patent system and affects the way patents are prosecuted, challenged and litigated. Among the changes that went into effect September 16, 2012, one of the most significant involves the implementation of a reformed post-grant review system. Other changes, which went into effect on March 16, 2013, include the transition from a “first-to-invent” to “first-to-file” system that attempts to harmonize the US with most of the world. Lack of precedential interpretation of the new provisions of the AIA through specific cases or through guidelines promulgated by the US Patent and Trademark Office and the lack of binding precedent from the courts increase the uncertainty of the impact of the AIA. Together, these changes may increase the costs of prosecution and enforcement of US patents. While it is currently unclear what impact these changes will have on the operation of our business, they may favor companies able to dedicate more resources to patent filings and challenges. Risks associated with enforcing our intellectual property rights in the United States. If we were to initiate legal proceedings against a third party to enforce a patent claiming one of our technologies, the defendant could counterclaim that our patent is invalid and/or unenforceable or assert that the patent does not cover its manufacturing processes, manufacturing components or products. Proving patent infringement may be difficult, especially where it is possible to manufacture a product by multiple processes or when a patented process is performed by multiple parties. Patent litigation is also costly, time-consuming and distracting to our management. Furthermore, in patent litigation in the United States or elsewhere, defendant counterclaims alleging both invalidity and unenforceability are commonplace. Although we believe that we have conducted our patent prosecution in accordance with the duty of candor and in good faith, the outcome following legal assertions of invalidity and unenforceability during patent litigation is unpredictable. With respect to the validity of our patent rights, we cannot be certain, for example, that there is no invalidating prior art, of which we and the patent examiner were unaware during prosecution. If a defendant were to prevail on a legal assertion of invalidity and/or unenforceability, we would not be able to exclude others from practicing the inventions claimed therein. Such a loss of patent protection could have a material adverse effect on our business. Defendant counterclaims of antitrust or other anti-competitive conduct are also commonplace. Even if our patent rights are found to be valid and enforceable, patent claims that survive litigation may not cover commercially viable products or prevent competitors from importing or marketing products similar to our own, or using manufacturing processes or manufacturing components similar to our own. Although we believe we have obtained valid assignments of patent rights from all inventors, if an inventor did not adequately assign their patent rights to us, a third party could obtain a license to the patent from such inventor. This could preclude us from enforcing the patent against such third party. We may not be able to enforce our intellectual property rights throughout the world. The laws of some foreign countries where we intend to produce and use our proprietary strains in collaboration with sugar mills or other feedstock suppliers do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending intellectual property rights in certain foreign jurisdictions. The legal systems of certain countries, including Brazil and developing countries, do not favor the enforcement of patents and other intellectual property protection, particularly those relating to biotechnology and/or bio-industrial technologies. This could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement of our patents or misappropriation of our intellectual property rights in 37 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements these countries. Proceedings to enforce our patent rights in certain foreign jurisdictions are unpredictable and could result in substantial costs and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business. Accordingly, our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights in such countries may be inadequate. Third parties may misappropriate our proprietary strains, information, or trade secrets despite a contractual obligation not to do so. Third parties (including joint venture, collaboration, development and feedstock partners and former partners, contract manufacturers, and other contractors and shipping agents) often have custody or control of our proprietary microbe strains. If our proprietary microbe strains were stolen, misappropriated or reverse engineered, they could be used by other parties who may be able to use our strains or reverse-engineered strains for their own commercial gain. It is difficult to prevent misappropriation or subsequent reverse engineering. In the event that our proprietary microbe strains are misappropriated, it could be difficult for us to challenge the misappropriation or prevent reverse engineering, especially in countries with limited legal and intellectual property protection. Confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties may not prevent unauthorized disclosure of proprietary information and trade secrets. In addition to patents, we rely on confidentiality agreements to protect our technical know-how and other proprietary information. Confidentiality agreements are used, for example, when we talk to potential strategic partners. In addition, each of our employees signed a confidentiality agreement upon joining our company. Nevertheless, there can be no guarantee that an employee or an outside party will not make an unauthorized disclosure or use of our proprietary confidential information. This might happen intentionally or inadvertently. It is possible that a competitor will make use of such information, and that our competitive position will be compromised, in spite of any legal action we might take against persons making such unauthorized disclosures. We also keep as trade secrets certain technical and proprietary information where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate, desirable or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. Although we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees, consultants, contractors, outside scientific collaborators, partners, former partners and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our trade secrets to competitors or otherwise use misappropriated trade secrets to compete with us. It can be expensive and time consuming to enforce a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets. Furthermore, the outcome of such claims is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the US may be less willing to or may not protect trade secrets. Moreover, our competitors may independently design around our intellectual property or develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how without misappropriating or otherwise violating our trade secret rights. Where a third party independently designs around our intellectual property or develops equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how without misappropriating or otherwise violating our trade secret rights, they may be able to seek patent protection for such equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. This could prohibit us from practicing our trade secrets. Claims by patent holders that our products or manufacturing processes infringe their patent rights could result in costly litigation or could require substantial time and money to resolve, whether or not we are successful, and an unfavorable outcome in these proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our ability to commercialize our technology depends on our ability to develop, manufacture, market and sell our products without infringing the proprietary rights of patent holders or their authorized agents. An issued patent does not guarantee us the right to practice or utilize the patented inventions or commercialize the patented product. Third parties may have blocking patents that may prevent us from commercializing our patented products and utilizing our patented manufacturing components and manufacturing processes. In the event that we are made aware of blocking third party patents, we cannot be sure that licenses to the blocking third-party patents would be available or obtainable on terms favorable to us or at all. 38 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Numerous US and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, relate to (1) the production of bio-industrial products, including oils, chemicals and biofuels, and (2) the use of microalgae strains, such as microalgae strains containing genes to alter oil composition. As such, there could be existing valid patents that our manufacturing processes, manufacturing components, or products may inadvertently infringe. There could also be existing invalid or unenforceable patents that could nevertheless be asserted against us and would require expenditure of resources to defend. In addition, there are pending patent applications that are currently unpublished and therefore unknown to us that may later result in issued patents that are infringed by our products, manufacturing processes or other aspects of our business. We may be exposed to future litigation based on claims that our products, manufacturing processes or manufacturing components infringe the intellectual property rights of others. There is inevitable uncertainty in any litigation, including patent litigation. Defending against claims of patent infringement is costly and time consuming, regardless of the outcome. Thus, even if we were to ultimately prevail, or to settle at an early stage of litigation, such litigation could burden us with substantial unanticipated costs. Some of our competitors are larger than we are and have substantially greater resources. They are, therefore, likely to be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation longer than we could. In addition, the costs and uncertainty associated with patent litigation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue our internal research and development programs, in-license needed technology, or enter into strategic partnerships that would help us commercialize our technologies. In addition, litigation or threatened litigation could result in significant demands on the time and attention of our management team, distracting them from the pursuit of other company business. If a party successfully asserts a patent or other intellectual property rights against us, we might be barred from using certain of our manufacturing processes or manufacturing components, or from developing and commercializing related products. Injunctions against using specified processes or components, or prohibitions against commercializing specified products, could be imposed by a court or by a settlement agreement between us and a third party. In addition, we may be required to pay substantial damage awards to the third party, including treble or enhanced damages if we are found to have willfully infringed the third party’s intellectual property rights. We may also be required to obtain a license from the third party in order to continue manufacturing and/or marketing the products that were found to infringe. It is possible that the necessary license will not be available to us on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. This could limit our ability to competitively commercialize some or all of our products. During the course of any patent litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, rulings on motions, and other interim proceedings in the litigation. If securities analysts or investors regard these announcements as negative, the perceived value of our products, technology or intellectual property could be diminished. Accordingly, the market price of our common stock may decline. We have received government funding in connection with the development of certain of our proprietary technologies, which could negatively affect our intellectual property rights in such technologies. Some of our proprietary technology was developed with US federal government funding. When new technologies are developed with US government funding, the government obtains certain rights in any resulting patents, including a nonexclusive license authorizing the government to use the invention for non-commercial purposes. These rights may permit the government to disclose our confidential information to third parties and to exercise “march-in” rights to use or allow third parties to use our patented technology. The government can exercise its march-in rights if it determines that action is necessary because we fail to achieve practical application of the US government-funded technology, because action is necessary to alleviate health or safety needs, to meet requirements of federal regulations, or to give preference to US industry. In addition, US government-funded inventions must be reported to the government and US government funding must be disclosed in any resulting patent applications. In addition, our rights in such inventions are subject to government license rights and foreign manufacturing restrictions. Any exercise by the government of such rights could harm our competitive position or impact our operating results. 39 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements In addition, some of our technology was funded by a grant from the state of California. Inventions funded by this grant may be subject to forfeiture if we do not seek to patent or practically apply them. Any such forfeiture could have a materially adverse effect on our business. For proprietary technology developed with funding from the State of California, certain confidential information may be disclosed to third parties by California. Our rights in such inventions are subject to State of California license and march-in rights. Any exercise by the State of California of such rights could harm our competitive position or impact our operating results. Risks Related to Our Finances and Capital Requirements Our financial results could vary significantly from quarter to quarter and are difficult to predict. Our revenues and results of operations could vary significantly from quarter to quarter because of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our results of operations on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. Factors that could cause our quarterly results of operations to fluctuate include: • achievement, or failure to achieve, technology or product development milestones needed to allow us to enter target markets on a cost effective basis; • delays or greater than anticipated expenses associated with the completion of new manufacturing facilities, and the time to complete scale up of production following completion of a new manufacturing facility; • our capital requirements or capital requirements of our joint ventures; • our ability to effectively manage larger working capital positions as we increase commercial production and distribution of our products; • disruptions in the production process at any facility where we produce our products, including due to equipment failure or accidents; • the timing, size and mix of sales to customers for our products; • increases in price or decreases in availability of feedstocks; • fluctuations in the price of, and demand for, products based on petroleum or other oils for which our products are alternatives; • the unavailability of contract manufacturing capacity altogether or at anticipated cost; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • seasonal production and sale of our products; • the effects of competitive pricing pressures, including decreases in average selling prices of our products; • unanticipated expenses associated with changes in governmental regulations and environmental, health and safety requirements; • reductions or changes to existing fuel, chemical, nutrition or skin and personal care regulations and policies; • departure of key employees; • business interruptions, such as earthquakes and other natural disasters; • our ability to integrate businesses that we may acquire; • risks associated with the international aspects of our business; and • changes in general economic, industry and market conditions, both domestically and in foreign markets in which we operate. 40 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Due to these factors and others the results of any quarterly or annual period may not meet our expectations or the expectations of our investors and may not be meaningful indications of our future performance. We may require additional financing in the future and may not be able to obtain such financing on favorable terms, if at all, which could force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our research and development or commercialization activities. To date, we have financed our operations primarily through our initial public offering, completed in June 2011, private placements of our equity and convertible debt securities, credit facilities, government grants and funding from strategic partners. In January 2013 we issued $125.0 million aggregate principal amount of convertible senior subordinated notes due 2018, which bear interest at a rate of 6.00% per year, payable in cash semi-annually. We entered into a loan and security agreement with HSBC that provides for a $35.0 million revolving facility for working capital and letters of credit. While we plan to enter into relationships with partners or collaborators for them to provide some portion or all of the capital needed to build production facilities, we may determine that it is more advantageous for us to provide some portion or all of the financing for new production facilities. Some of our previous funding has come from government grants; however, our future ability to obtain government grants is uncertain due to the competitive bid process and other factors. We may have to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings to meet our capital requirements, including our portion of joint venture funding requirements. For example, although the Solazyme Bunge JV entered a loan agreement with BNDES for project financing funding to support the joint venture’s production facility in Brazil, including a portion of the construction costs of the facility, and has drawn on the funds, if we are unable to finalize the corporate guarantee documentation on acceptable terms, the Solazyme Bunge JV will be unable to draw down amounts under the loan in excess of amounts supported by bank guarantees and may have to seek additional financing. If the Solazyme Bunge JV is unable to secure additional financing, we will be required to fund our portion of the Solazyme Bunge JV’s capital requirements from existing sources or seek additional financing. In addition, our working capital requirements and the working capital requirements of the Solazyme Bunge JV are likely to increase as we and the Solazyme Bunge JV increase and begin production, respectively, due to an increase in inventory and the manufacture out-of-spec product during the ramp-up of commercial production. We may not be able to raise sufficient additional funds on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. If we fail to raise sufficient funds and continue to incur losses, our ability to fund our operations, take advantage of strategic opportunities, develop and commercialize products or technologies, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures could be significantly limited. If this happens, we may be forced to delay or terminate research and development programs or the commercialization of products resulting from our technologies, curtail or cease operations or obtain funds through collaborative and licensing arrangements that may require us to relinquish commercial rights, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If adequate funds are not available, we will not be able to successfully execute our business plan or continue our business. Servicing our debt will require a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to pay amounts due under our indebtedness, including our convertible notes. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness, including our convertible notes, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt and make necessary capital expenditures. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations. 41 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Despite our current debt levels, we may still incur substantially more debt or take other actions that would intensify the risks discussed above. Despite our current consolidated debt levels, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional debt in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in our debt instruments, some of which may be secured debt. We are not restricted under the terms of the indenture governing the convertible notes from incurring additional debt, securing existing or future debt, recapitalizing our debt or taking a number of other actions that are not limited by the terms governing the notes. Our existing credit facility with HSBC contains certain restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, but if the facility matures or is repaid, we may not be subject to such restrictions under the terms of any subsequent indebtedness. We have received government grant funding and entered contracts with government agencies, and may pursue government grant funding or contracts in the future. Our receipt of government funds through grants and contracts subjects us to additional regulatory oversight. We have received government grants and have entered contracts with government agencies in the past. Activities funded by a government grant or pursuant to government contracts are subject to audits by government agencies. As part of an audit, these agencies may review our performance, cost structures and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. Grant funds must be applied by us toward the research and development programs specified by the granting agency, rather than for all of our programs generally. If any of our grant-funded costs are found to be allocated improperly, the costs may not be reimbursed and any costs already reimbursed may have to be refunded. Accordingly, an audit could result in an adjustment to our revenues and results of operations. We are also subject to additional regulations based on our receipt of government grant funding and entry into government contracts. If we fail to comply with the requirements under our grants or contracts, we may face penalties or other negative consequences, and in such event we may not be awarded government funding or contracts in the future. If we engage in any acquisitions, we will incur a variety of costs and may potentially face numerous risks that could adversely affect our business and operations. If appropriate opportunities become available, we may seek to acquire additional businesses, assets, technologies or products to enhance our business. In connection with any acquisitions, we could issue additional equity or equity-linked securities such as our convertible notes, which would dilute our stockholders, incur substantial debt to fund the acquisitions, or assume significant liabilities. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including problems integrating the purchased operations, technologies or products, unanticipated costs and other liabilities, diversion of management’s attention from our core businesses, adverse effects on existing business relationships with current and/or prospective collaborators, customers and/or suppliers, risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience and potential loss of key employees. Acquisitions may also require us to record goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges, incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets, and incur write offs and restructuring and other related expenses, any of which could harm our operating results and financial condition. If we fail in our integration efforts with respect to any of our acquisitions and are unable to efficiently operate as a combined organization, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected. Raising additional funds may cause dilution to our stockholders or require us to relinquish valuable rights. If we elect to raise additional funds through equity offerings or offerings of equity-linked securities, our stockholders would likely experience dilution. Debt financing, if available, may subject us to restrictive covenants that could limit our flexibility in conducting future business activities. For example, the loan and security agreement we entered into with HSBC in March 2013 contains financial covenants that, if breached, would require us to secure our obligations thereunder. To the extent that we raise additional funds through 42 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements collaboration and licensing arrangements, it may be necessary for us to share a portion of the margin from the sale of our products. We may also be required to relinquish or license on unfavorable terms our rights to technologies or products that we otherwise would seek to develop or commercialize ourselves. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we might not be able to report our financial results accurately or prevent fraud; in that case, our stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and could negatively impact the price of our stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. In addition, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us and our independent registered public accounting firm to evaluate and report on our internal control over financial reporting, and have our chief executive officer and chief financial officer certify as to the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports. The process of implementing our internal controls and complying with Section 404 is expensive and time consuming, and requires significant attention from management. We cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Our management has concluded that there are no material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013. However, there can be no assurance that our controls over financial processes and reporting will be effective in the future or that material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls will not be discovered in the future. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect fraud or misstatements. Failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our results of operations or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we or our independent registered public accounting firm discover a material weakness, the disclosure of that fact, even if quickly remedied, could reduce the market’s confidence in our financial statements and harm our stock price. Risks Relating to Securities Markets and Investment in Our Stock The price of our common stock may be volatile. The volatility of our common stock may affect the price of our common stock, and the sale of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Stock markets have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In addition, the average daily trading volume of the securities of small companies, particularly small technology companies, can be very low. Limited trading volume of our stock may contribute to its future volatility. Price declines in our common stock could result from general market and economic conditions and a variety of other factors, including any of the risk factors described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. The market price of our common stock could also be affected by possible sales of the common stock by investors who view our convertible notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in us and by hedging or arbitrage trading activity that we expect to develop involving the common stock. Our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage another company from acquiring us and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions of Delaware law (where we are incorporated), our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. In addition, these provisions may 43 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our board of directors. These provisions include: • authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock without any need for action by stockholders; • requiring supermajority stockholder voting to effect certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws; • eliminating the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and • dividing our board of directors into three classes so that only one third of our directors will be up for election in any given year. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which, under certain circumstances, may make it more difficult for a person who would be an “interested stockholder,” as defined in Section 203, to effect various business combinations with us for a three-year period. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws do not exclude us from the restrictions imposed under Section 203. These provisions could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the market price of our common stock. Being a public company increases our expenses and administrative burden. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. For example, as a public company, we have adopted internal and disclosure controls and procedures and bear all of the internal and external costs of preparing and distributing periodic public reports in compliance with our obligations under applicable securities laws. In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related regulations implemented by the SEC and the NASDAQ Global Select Market, create uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time consuming. We evaluate and monitor developments with respect to new and proposed rules and cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be harmed. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee and compensation committee, and attract and retain qualified executive officers. If these requirements divert our management’s attention from other business concerns, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 44 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements If securities or industry analysts do not continue to publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If securities or industry analysts do not continue coverage of our company, the trading price for our stock would be negatively impacted. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which might cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends, and accordingly, stockholders must rely on stock appreciation for any return on their investment. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, only appreciation of the price of our common stock, which may never occur, would provide a return to stockholders. Investors seeking cash dividends should not invest in our common stock. 45 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 