Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this annual report, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. The risk factors set forth below primarily relate to the business of Lazard Group. These risks also affect Lazard Ltd because Lazard Ltd has no material assets as of December 31, 2007 other than indirect ownership of approximately 48.3% of the common membership interests in Lazard Group and its controlling interest in Lazard Group. The following risks comprise material risks of which we are aware. If any of the events or developments described below actually occurred, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer. 15 Table of Contents Our ability to retain our managing directors and other key professional employees is critical to the success of our business, including maintaining compensation levels at an appropriate level of costs, and failure to do so may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. Our people are our most important resource. We must retain the services of our managing directors and other key professional employees, and strategically recruit and hire new talented employees, to obtain and successfully execute the advisory and asset management engagements that generate substantially all our revenue. Lazard Group has experienced several significant events in recent years, including our transformation from a private to a public company. In general, our industry continues to experience change and exerts competitive pressures for retaining top talent, which makes it more difficult for us to retain professionals. If any of our managing directors and other key professional employees were to join an existing competitor, form a competing company or otherwise leave us, some of our clients could choose to use the services of that competitor or some other competitor instead of our services. The employment arrangements, non-competition agreements and retention agreements we have entered into with our managing directors and other key professional employees may not prevent our managing directors and other key professional employees from resigning from practice or competing against us. In addition, these arrangements and agreements have a limited duration and will expire after a certain period of time. Since our transformation to a public company, we continue to be subject to the intense competition in the financial services industry regarding the recruitment and retention of key professionals, and have experienced a few departures from and added to our professional ranks as a result. In connection with our transformation to a public company we adopted a compensation policy that provides that our employee compensation and benefits expense, including amounts payable to our managing directors, will not exceed 57.5% of operating revenue (although we retain the ability to change this policy in the future). For the year ended December 31, 2007, such employee compensation and benefits expenses was 55.7% of operating revenue, including amortization of restricted stock unit grants under our 2005 Equity Incentive Plan which starts at the date of grant. During periods of favorable market conditions we would expect to be able to achieve this target without negatively impacting the financial packages for our managing directors and other key employees. However, during periods of adverse market conditions, we may face additional retention pressures as a result of potential reductions in payments for services rendered by our managing directors and other key employees. Also, the expiration in May, 2008 of the initial transfer restrictions on the LAZ-MD Holdings exchangeable interests held by our managing directors may create additional retention pressures. Furthermore, as a result of the intense competition for financial services professionals, we, like our competitors, may not be able to retain each of the key employees and managing directors that we desire to keep and, even if we can, we may not be able to retain them at compensation levels that will allow us to achieve our target ratio of compensation expense-to-operating revenue. Difficult market conditions can adversely affect our business in many ways, including by reducing the volume of the transactions involving our Financial Advisory business and reducing the value or performance of the assets we manage in our Asset Management business, which, in each case, could materially reduce our revenue or income and adversely affect our financial position. As a financial services firm, our businesses are materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions throughout the world. For example, revenue generated by our Financial Advisory business is directly related to the volume and value of the transactions in which we are involved. During periods of unfavorable market or economic conditions, the volume and value of mergers and acquisitions transactions may decrease, thereby reducing the demand for our Financial Advisory services and increasing price competition among financial services companies seeking such engagements. Our results of operations would be adversely affected by any such reduction in the volume or value of mergers and acquisitions transactions. In addition, our profitability would be adversely affected by our fixed costs and the possibility that we would be unable to scale back other costs within a time frame sufficient to match any decreases in revenue relating to 16 Table of Contents changes in market and economic conditions. The future market and economic climate may deteriorate because of many factors, including rising interest rates or inflation, terrorism or political uncertainty. Within our Financial Advisory business, we have typically seen that, during periods of economic strength and growth, our Mergers and Acquisitions practice historically has been more active and our Financial Restructuring practice has been less active. Conversely, during periods of economic weakness and slowdown, we typically have seen that our Financial Restructuring practice has been more active and our Mergers and Acquisitions practice has been less active. As a result, our revenue from our Financial Restructuring practice has tended to correlate negatively to our revenue from our Mergers and Acquisitions practice over the course of business cycles. These trends are cyclical in nature and subject to periodic reversal. However, these trends do not cancel out the impact of economic conditions in our Financial Advisory business, which may be adversely affected by a downturn in economic conditions leading to decreased Mergers and Acquisitions practice activity, notwithstanding improvements in our Financial Restructuring practice. Moreover, revenue improvements in our Mergers and Acquisitions practice in strong economic conditions could be offset in whole or in part by any related revenue declines in our Financial Restructuring practice. While we generally have experienced a counter-cyclical relationship between our Mergers and Acquisitions practice and our Financial Restructuring practice, this relationship may not continue in the future. Our Asset Management business also would be expected to generate lower revenue in a market or general economic downturn. Under our Asset Management business’ arrangements, investment advisory fees we receive typically are based on the market value of AUM. Accordingly, a decline in the prices of securities would be expected to cause our revenue and income to decline by: • causing the value of our AUM to decrease, which would result in lower investment advisory fees, • causing negative absolute performance returns for some accounts which have performance-based incentive fees, which would result in a reduction of revenue from such fees, or • causing some of our clients to withdraw funds from our Asset Management business in favor of investments they perceive as offering greater opportunity or lower risk, which also would result in lower investment advisory fees. If our Asset Management revenue declines without a commensurate reduction in our expenses, our net income will be reduced. In addition, in the event of a market downturn, our alternative investment and private equity practice also may be impacted by reduced exit opportunities in which to realize the value of its investments. A majority of our revenue is derived from Financial Advisory fees, which are not long-term contracted sources of revenue and are subject to intense competition, and declines in our Financial Advisory engagements could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We historically have earned a substantial portion of our revenue from advisory fees paid to us by our Financial Advisory clients, which fees usually are payable upon the successful completion of a particular transaction or restructuring. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2007, Financial Advisory services accounted for approximately 64% of our consolidated net revenue. We expect that we will continue to rely on Financial Advisory fees for a substantial portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future, and a decline in our advisory engagements or the market for advisory services would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we operate in a highly competitive environment where typically there are no long-term contracted sources of revenue. Each revenue-generating engagement typically is separately awarded and negotiated. Furthermore, many businesses do not routinely engage in transactions requiring our services, and, as a consequence, our fee paying engagements with many clients are not likely to be predictable. We also lose 17 Table of Contents clients each year as a result of the sale or merger of a client, a change in a client’s senior management, competition from other financial advisors and financial institutions and other causes. As a result, our engagements with clients are constantly changing, and our Financial Advisory fees could decline quickly due to the factors discussed above. There will not be a consistent pattern in our financial results from period to period, which may make it difficult for us to achieve steady earnings growth on a quarterly basis. We experience significant fluctuations in revenue and profits. These fluctuations generally can be attributed to the fact that we earn a significant portion of our Financial Advisory revenue upon the successful completion of a merger or acquisition transaction or a restructuring, the timing of which is uncertain and is not subject to our control. In addition, our Asset Management revenue is particularly sensitive to fluctuations in our AUM. Asset Management fees are often based on AUM as of the end of a quarter or month. As a result, a reduction in assets at the end of a quarter or month (as a result of market depreciation, withdrawals or otherwise) will result in a decrease in management fees. Similarly, timing of flows, contributions and withdrawals are often out of our control and may be inconsistent from quarter to quarter. As a result of quarterly fluctuations, it may be difficult for us to achieve steady earnings growth on a quarterly basis. In many cases, we are paid for advisory engagements only upon the successful consummation of the underlying merger or acquisition transaction or restructuring. As a result, our Financial Advisory business is highly dependent on market conditions and the decisions and actions of our clients, interested third parties and governmental authorities. For example, a client could delay or terminate an acquisition transaction because of a failure to agree upon final terms with the counterparty, failure to obtain necessary regulatory consents or board of directors or stockholder approvals, failure to secure necessary financing, adverse market conditions or because the target’s business is experiencing unexpected operating or financial problems. Anticipated bidders for assets of a client during a restructuring transaction may not materialize or our client may not be able to restructure its operations or indebtedness, for example, due to a failure to reach agreement with its principal creditors. In these circumstances, we often do not receive any advisory fees other than the reimbursement of certain expenses despite the fact that we devote resources to these transactions. Accordingly, the failure of one or more transactions to close either as anticipated or at all could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. For more information, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” If the number of debt defaults, bankruptcies or other factors affecting demand for our Financial Restructuring services declines, or we lose business to certain new entrants to the financial restructuring advisory practice who are no longer precluded from offering such services due to changes to the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, our Financial Restructuring practice’s revenue could suffer. We provide various financial restructuring and restructuring-related advice to companies in financial distress or to their creditors or other stakeholders. Historically, the fees from financial restructuring related services have been a significant part of our Financial Advisory revenue. A number of factors affect demand for these advisory services, including general economic conditions, the availability and cost of debt and equity financing and changes to laws, rules and regulations, including deregulation or privatization of particular industries and those that protect creditors. Section 327 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code requires that “disinterested persons” be employed in a restructuring. The definition of “disinterested person” has been modified. As previously in effect, certain of our competitors were disqualified from being employed in restructurings as a result of their status as an underwriter of securities. This basis for disqualification, however, no longer applies. Historically, we were not often disqualified from obtaining a role in a restructuring because we have not been a significant underwriter of securities. The change of the “disinterested person” definition allows for more financial services firms to compete for restructuring engagements and make recruiting and retaining of professionals more difficult. If our 18 Table of Contents competitors succeed in being retained in new restructuring engagements, our Financial Restructuring practice, and thereby our results of operations, could be materially adversely affected. We could lose clients and suffer a decline in our Asset Management revenue and earnings if the investments we choose in our Asset Management business perform poorly or if we lose key employees, regardless of overall trends in the prices of securities. Investment performance affects our AUM relating to existing clients and is one of the most important factors in retaining clients and competing for new Asset Management business. Poor investment performance could impair our revenue and growth because: • existing clients might withdraw funds from our Asset Management business in favor of better performing products, which would result in lower investment advisory fees, • our incentive fees, which provide us with a set percentage of returns on some alternative investment and private equity funds and other accounts, would decline, • third-party financial intermediaries, advisors or consultants may rate our products poorly, which may result in client withdrawals and reduced asset flows from these third parties or their clients, or • firms with which we have strategic alliances may terminate such relationships with us, and future strategic alliances may be unavailable. If key employees were to leave our Asset Management business, whether to join a competitor or otherwise, we may suffer a decline in revenue or earnings and suffer an adverse effect on our financial position. Loss of key employees may occur due to perceived opportunity for promotion, increased compensation, work environment or other individual reasons, some of which may be beyond our control. Our investment style in our Asset Management business may underperform other investment approaches, which may result in significant client or asset departures or a reduction in AUM. Even when securities prices are rising generally, performance can be affected by investment style. Many of the equity investment strategies in our Asset Management business share a common investment orientation towards fundamental security selection. We believe this style tends to outperform the market in some market environments and underperform it in others. In particular, a prolonged growth environment may cause certain investment strategies to go out of favor with some clients, consultants or third-party intermediaries. In combination with poor performance relative to peers, changes in personnel, extensive periods in particular market environments or other difficulties, this may result in significant client or asset departures or a reduction in AUM. Because our clients can remove the assets we manage on short notice, we may experience unexpected declines in revenue and profitability. Our investment advisory contracts are generally terminable upon very short notice. Institutional and individual clients, and firms with which we have strategic alliances, can terminate their relationship with us, reduce the aggregate amount of AUM or shift their funds to other types of accounts with different rate structures for a number of reasons, including investment performance, changes in prevailing interest rates and financial market performance. Poor performance relative to other investment management firms tends to result in decreased investments in our investment products, increased redemptions of our investment products, and the loss of institutional or individual accounts or strategic alliances. In addition, the ability to terminate relationships may allow clients to renegotiate for lower fees paid for asset management services. In addition, in the U.S., as required by the Investment Company Act, each of our investment advisory contracts with the mutual funds we advise or subadvise automatically terminates upon its “assignment.” Each of our other investment advisory contracts subject to the provisions of the Investment Advisers Act provide, as 19 Table of Contents required by the act, that the contract may not be “assigned” without the consent of the customer. A sale of a sufficiently large block of shares of our voting securities or other transactions could be deemed an “assignment” in certain circumstances. An assignment, actual or constructive, would trigger these termination provisions and could adversely affect our ability to continue managing client accounts. Access to clients through intermediaries is important to our Asset Management business, and reductions in referrals from such intermediaries or poor reviews of our products or our organization by such intermediaries could materially reduce our revenue and impair our ability to attract new clients. Our ability to market our Asset Management services relies in part on receiving mandates from the client base of national and regional securities firms, banks, insurance companies, defined contribution plan administrators, investment consultants and other intermediaries. To an increasing extent, our Asset Management business uses referrals from accountants, lawyers, financial planners and other professional advisors. The inability to have this access could materially adversely affect our Asset Management business. In addition, many of these intermediaries review and evaluate our products and our organization. Poor reviews or evaluations of either the particular product or of us may result in client withdrawals or an inability to attract new assets through such intermediaries. Our historical alternative investment activities involve increased levels of investments in relatively high-risk, illiquid assets, and we may lose some or all of the principal amount that we invest in these activities or fail to realize any profits from these activities for a considerable period of time. We intend to expand our participation in alternative investment activities through investments in new and successor funds, and we may exercise our option under the business alliance agreement between Lazard Group and LFCM Holdings to acquire the alternative investment business and related principal investments from LFCM Holdings. The revenue from this business is derived primarily from management fees calculated as a percentage of AUM and incentive fees, which are earned if investments are profitable over a specified threshold. Our ability to form new alternative investment funds is subject to a number of uncertainties, including past performance of our funds, market or economic conditions, competition from other fund managers and the ability to negotiate terms with major investors. In addition, the payments we are entitled to receive from LFCM Holdings under the terms of the business alliance agreement in respect of our continued involvement with LFCM Holdings are based on the carried interests received in connection with LFCM Holdings-managed funds. In addition, we expect to make principal investments in new alternative investments (including private equity funds and special purpose acquisition companies), that may be established by us or by LFCM Holdings, and to continue to hold principal investments in several funds managed by LFCM Holdings. The kinds of investments made by these funds are generally in relatively high-risk, illiquid assets. Contributing capital to these funds is risky, and we may lose some or all of the principal amount of our investments. Because it may take several years before attractive investment opportunities are identified, some or all of the capital committed by us to these funds is likely to be invested in government securities, other short-term, highly rated debt securities and money market funds that traditionally have offered investors relatively lower returns. In addition, the investments in these funds are adjusted for accounting purposes to fair market value at the end of each quarter, and our allocable share of these gains or losses will affect our revenue, even though such market fluctuations may have no cash impact, which could increase the volatility of our earnings. It takes a substantial period of time to identify attractive alternative investment opportunities, to raise all the funds needed to make an investment and then to realize the cash value of an investment through resale. Even if an alternative investment proves to be profitable, it may be several years or longer before any profits can be realized in cash or other proceeds. 20 Table of Contents Our results of operations may be affected by market fluctuations related to positions held in our investment portfolios. We invest capital in corporate and non-U.S. government debt securities in conjunction with the commercial banking activities of LFB and in equities in order to seed LAM equity and alternative investment funds, and for general corporate purposes. Such investments are subject to market fluctuations due to the change in the level of market prices of securities, rates or other market factors, such as liquidity. These investments are adjusted for accounting purposes to fair market value at the end of each quarter regardless of our intended holding period and the related gains or losses with respect to a substantial portion of the investments will affect our revenue and therefore may increase the volatility of our earnings, even though such gains or losses may not be realized. We face strong competition from financial services firms, many of whom have the ability to offer clients a wider range of products and services than we can offer, which could lead to pricing pressures that could materially adversely affect our revenue and profitability. The financial services industry is intensely competitive, and we expect it to remain so. We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including the quality of our employees, transaction execution, our products and services, innovation, reputation and price. We have experienced intense fee competition in some of our businesses in recent years, and we believe that we will experience pricing pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of our competitors seek to obtain increased market share by reducing fees. We face increased competition due to a trend toward consolidation. In recent years, there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial services industry. In particular, a number of large commercial banks, insurance companies and other broad-based financial services firms have established or acquired broker-dealers or have merged with other financial institutions. Many of these firms have the ability to offer a wide range of products, from loans, deposit-taking and insurance to brokerage, asset management and investment banking services, which may enhance their competitive position. They also have the ability to support investment banking, including financial advisory services, with commercial banking, insurance and other financial services in an effort to gain market share, which could result in pricing pressure in our businesses. An inability to access the debt and equity capital markets as a result of our debt and equity security obligations, credit ratings or other factors could impair our liquidity, increase our borrowing costs or otherwise adversely affect our competitive position or results of operations. As of December 31, 2007, Lazard Group and its subsidiaries had approximately $1.8 billion in debt outstanding. This debt has certain mandated payment obligations, which may constrain our ability to operate our business. In addition, in the future we may need to incur debt or issue equity in order to fund our working capital requirements or refinance existing indebtedness, as well as to make acquisitions and other investments. We will also be required to remarket $437.5 million of debt associated with our ESUs in May, 2008. The amount of our debt obligations may impair our ability to raise debt or issue equity for financing purposes. Our access to funds also may be impaired if regulatory authorities take significant action against us, or if we discover that any of our employees had engaged in serious unauthorized or illegal activity. In addition, our borrowing costs and our access to the debt capital markets depend significantly on our credit ratings. These ratings are assigned by rating agencies, which may reduce or withdraw their ratings or place us on “credit watch” with negative implications at any time. Furthermore, the debt capital markets have experienced significant volatility in the recent past, which may make it difficult for us to issue or remarket debt at attractive yields. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” 21 Table of Contents We may pursue acquisitions or joint ventures that could present unforeseen integration obstacles or costs. We routinely assess our strategic position and may in the future seek acquisitions or other transactions to further enhance our competitive position. We have in the past pursued joint ventures and other transactions aimed at expanding the geography and scope of our operations. For example, we have a cooperation arrangement with Natixis to promote mutually beneficial revenue production and sharing relating to cooperation activities. See “Business—Principal Business Lines—Financial Advisory—Relationship with Natixis.” During 2007, we acquired all of the outstanding ownership interests of GAHL and CWC, we entered into a joint cooperation agreement with Raiffeisen and we entered into a shareholders agreement to acquire a 50% interest in MBA, with this transaction closing on January 31, 2008. We expect to continue to explore acquisitions and partnership or strategic alliance opportunities that we believe to be attractive. Acquisitions and joint ventures involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management, difficulty with integrating personnel and financial and other systems, hiring additional management and other critical personnel and increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations. Our clients may react unfavorably to our acquisition and joint venture strategy, we may not realize any anticipated benefits from acquisitions, we may be exposed to additional liabilities of any acquired business or joint venture, and we may not be able to renew on similar terms (or at all) previously successful joint ventures or similar arrangements, any of which could materially adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. Employee misconduct could harm us by impairing our ability to attract and retain clients and subjecting us to significant legal liability and reputational harm, and this type of misconduct is difficult to detect and deter. There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry generally, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur in our business as well. For example, misconduct by employees could involve the improper use or disclosure of confidential information, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious reputational or financial harm. Our Financial Advisory business often requires that we deal with client confidences of great significance to our clients, improper use of which may harm our clients or our relationships with our clients. Any breach of our clients’ confidences as a result of employee misconduct may impair our ability to attract and retain Financial Advisory clients and may subject us to liability. Similarly, in our Asset Management business, we have authority over client assets, and we may, from time to time, have custody of such assets. In addition, we often have discretion to trade client assets on the client’s behalf and must do so acting in the best interests of the client. As a result, we are subject to a number of obligations and standards, and the violation of those obligations or standards may adversely affect our clients and us. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases. The financial services industry faces substantial litigation and regulatory risks, and we may face damage to our professional reputation and legal liability if our services are not regarded as satisfactory or for other reasons. As a financial services firm, we depend to a large extent on our relationships with our clients and our reputation for integrity and high-caliber professional services to attract and retain clients. As a result, if a client is not satisfied with our services, such dissatisfaction may be more damaging to our business than to other types of businesses. Moreover, our role as advisor to our clients on important mergers and acquisitions or restructuring transactions involves complex analysis and the exercise of professional judgment, including, if appropriate, rendering “fairness opinions” in connection with mergers and other transactions. In recent years, the volume of claims and amount of damages claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial advisors has been increasing. Our Financial Advisory activities may subject us to 22 Table of Contents the risk of significant legal liabilities to our clients and third parties, including our clients’ stockholders, under securities or other laws for materially false or misleading statements made in connection with securities and other transactions and potential liability for the fairness opinions and other advice provided to participants in corporate transactions. In our Asset Management business, we make investment decisions on behalf of our clients which could result in substantial losses. This also may subject us to the risk of legal liabilities or actions alleging negligence, misconduct, breach of fiduciary duty or breach of contract. These risks often may be difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. Our engagements typically include broad indemnities from our clients and provisions designed to limit our exposure to legal claims relating to our services, but these provisions may not protect us or may not be adhered to in all cases. We also are subject to claims arising from disputes with employees for alleged discrimination or harassment, among other things. These risks often may be difficult to assess or quantify, and their existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. As a result, we may incur significant legal expenses in defending against litigation. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously harm our business. Other operational risks may disrupt our businesses, result in regulatory action against us or limit our growth. Our business is dependent on communications and information systems, including those of our vendors. Any failure or interruption of these systems, whether caused by fire, other natural disaster, power or telecommunications failure, act of terrorism or war or otherwise, could materially adversely affect our operating results. Although we have back-up systems in place, our back-up procedures and capabilities in the event of a failure or interruption may not be adequate. Particularly in our Asset Management business, we rely heavily on our financial, accounting, trading, compliance and other data processing systems. We expect that we will need to review whether to continue to upgrade and expand the capabilities of these systems in the future to avoid disruption of, or constraints on, our operations. However, if any of these systems do not operate properly or are disabled, we could suffer financial loss, a disruption of our businesses, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. The inability of our systems to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions also could constrain our ability to expand our businesses. Extensive regulation of our businesses limits our activities and results in ongoing exposure to the potential for significant penalties, including fines or limitations on our ability to conduct our businesses. The financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation. We are subject to regulation by governmental and self-regulatory organizations in the jurisdictions in which we operate around the world. Many of these regulators, including U.S. and non-U.S. government agencies and self-regulatory organizations, as well as state securities commissions in the U.S., are empowered to conduct administrative proceedings that can result in censure, fine, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or the suspension or expulsion of a broker-dealer from registration or memberships. The requirements imposed by our regulators are designed to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect customers and other third parties who deal with us and are not designed to protect our stockholders. Consequently, these regulations often serve to limit our activities, including through net capital, customer protection and market conduct requirements. We face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory authorities, including extended investigation and surveillance activity, adoption of costly or restrictive new regulations and judicial or administrative proceedings that may result in substantial penalties. Among other things, we could be fined or be prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities. In addition, the regulatory environment in which we operate is subject to modifications and further regulation. New laws or regulations or changes in the enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to us and our clients also may adversely affect our business, and our ability to function in this environment will depend on our ability to constantly monitor and react to these changes. 23 Table of Contents The regulatory environment in which our clients operate may impact our business. For example, changes in antitrust laws or the enforcement of antitrust laws could affect the level of mergers and acquisitions activity and changes in state laws may limit investment activities of state pension plans. In particular, for asset management businesses in general, there have been a number of highly publicized industry-wide regulatory inquiries. These inquiries have resulted in increased scrutiny in the industry and new rules and regulations for mutual funds, hedge funds and their investment managers. This regulatory scrutiny and rulemaking initiatives may result in an increase in operational and compliance costs or the assessment of significant fines or penalties against our Asset Management business, and may otherwise limit our ability to engage in certain activities. Financial services firms are subject to numerous conflicts of interests or perceived conflicts. We have adopted various policies, controls and procedures to address or limit actual or perceived conflicts and regularly seek to review and update our policies, controls and procedures. However, these policies and procedures may result in increased costs, additional operational personnel and increased regulatory risk. Failure to adhere to these policies and procedures may result in regulatory sanctions or client litigation. Specific regulatory changes also may have a direct impact on the revenue of our Asset Management business. In addition to regulatory scrutiny and potential fines and sanctions, regulators continue to examine different aspects of the asset management industry. For example, the use of “soft dollars,” where a portion of commissions paid to broker-dealers in connection with the execution of trades also pays for research and other services provided to advisors, continues to be examined and may in the future be limited or modified. Although a substantial portion of the research relied on by our Asset Management business in the investment decision-making process is generated internally by our investment analysts, external research, including external research paid for with soft dollars, is important to the process. This external research generally is used for information gathering or verification purposes, and includes broker-provided research, as well as third-party provided databases and research services. For the year ended December 31, 2007, our Asset Management business obtained research and other services through soft dollar arrangements, the total cost of which we estimate to be approximately $14.9 million. If the use of soft dollars is limited, we may have to bear some of these costs. In addition, new regulations regarding the management of hedge funds may impact our Asset Management business and result in increased costs. These regulatory changes and other proposed or potential changes, may result in a reduction of revenue associated with our Asset Management business. See “Business—Regulation” for a further discussion of the regulatory environment in which we conduct our businesses. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could lower our net income or negatively impact the portfolios of our Asset Management clients and may affect the levels of our AUM. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currencies. Our financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars and, for the year ended December 31, 2007, we received approximately 49% of our consolidated net revenue in other currencies, predominantly in euros and British pounds. In addition, we pay a significant amount of our expenses in such other currencies. The exchange rates of these currencies versus the U.S. dollar may affect our net income. We do not generally hedge such non-dollar foreign exchange rate exposure arising in our subsidiaries outside of the U.S. Fluctuations in foreign currencies may also make period to period comparisons of our results of operations difficult. Foreign currency fluctuations also can impact the portfolios of our Asset Management clients. Client portfolios are invested in securities across the globe, although most portfolios are in a single base currency. Foreign currency fluctuations can adversely impact investment performance for a client’s portfolio. In addition, foreign currency fluctuations may affect the levels of our AUM. As our AUM include significant assets that are denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to non-U.S. currencies may result in a decrease in the dollar value of our AUM, which, in turn, would result in lower U.S. 24 Table of Contents dollar denominated revenue in our Asset Management business. While this risk may be limited by foreign currency hedging, some risks cannot be hedged and our hedging activity may not be successful. Poor performance may result in decreased AUM, including as a result of withdrawal of client assets or a decrease in new assets being raised in the relevant product. Our only material asset is our indirect interests in Lazard Group, and, accordingly, we are dependent upon distributions from Lazard Group to pay dividends and taxes and other expenses. Lazard Ltd is a holding company and, as of December 31, 2007, had no material assets other than the indirect ownership of approximately 48.3% of the common membership interests in Lazard Group and indirect control of both of the managing members of Lazard Group. Lazard Ltd controls Lazard Group through this managing member position. We have no independent means of generating significant revenue. Our wholly-owned subsidiaries incur income taxes on their proportionate share of any net taxable income of Lazard Group in their respective tax jurisdictions. We intend to continue to cause Lazard Group to make distributions to its members, including our wholly-owned subsidiaries, in an amount sufficient to cover all applicable taxes payable by us and dividends, if any, declared by us. To the extent that our subsidiaries need funds to pay taxes on their share of Lazard Group’s net taxable income, or if Lazard Ltd needs funds for any other purpose, and Lazard Group is restricted from making such distributions under applicable law or regulation, or is otherwise unable to provide such funds, it could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Earnings of Lazard Group allocable to LAZ-MD Holdings are taxed at higher tax rates than earnings allocable to Lazard Ltd, which results in less cash being available to Lazard Group than would otherwise be available to it. The managing directors of Lazard Group and other owners of LAZ-MD Holdings generally are taxed at a higher rate on their allocable share of Lazard Group’s earnings than that paid by Lazard Ltd. Lazard Group makes tax-related distributions based on the higher of the effective income and franchise tax rate applicable to Lazard Ltd’s subsidiaries that hold the Lazard Group common membership interests and the weighted average income tax rate (based on income allocated) applicable to LAZ-MD Holdings’ members, determined in accordance with Lazard Group’s operating agreement. In the event that tax rates applicable to members of LAZ-MD Holdings increase, the pro rata distributions from Lazard Group to its members, including Lazard Ltd’s subsidiaries, may increase correspondingly. Therefore, because distributions by Lazard Group to its members are made on a pro rata basis, tax-related distributions to Lazard Ltd’s subsidiaries exceed the taxes Lazard Ltd’s subsidiaries actually pay or expect to pay. This results in less cash being available to Lazard Group than would otherwise be available to it, and in cash being held by Lazard Ltd’s subsidiaries in excess of what they actually pay for taxes or hold for expected future payments. We intend to lend to Lazard Group a significant portion of such excess cash. We may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after March 28, 2016, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The Bermuda Minister of Finance, under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966 of Bermuda, as amended, has given us an assurance that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to us or any of our operations, shares, debentures or other obligations until March 28, 2016, except insofar as such tax applies to persons ordinarily resident in Bermuda or to any taxes payable by us in respect of real property owned or leased by us in Bermuda. Given the limited duration of the Bermuda Minister of Finance’s assurance, we may be subject to Bermuda tax after March 28, 2016. 25 Table of Contents In the event of a change or adverse interpretation of relevant income tax law, regulation or treaty, or a failure to qualify for treaty benefits, our overall tax rate may be substantially higher than the rate used for purposes of our consolidated financial statements. Our effective tax rate for 2007 is based upon the application of currently applicable income tax laws, regulations and treaties, current judicial and administrative authorities interpreting those income tax laws, regulations and treaties, and upon our non-U.S. subsidiaries’ ability to qualify for benefits under those treaties, and that a portion of their income is not subject to U.S. tax as effectively connected income. Moreover, those income tax laws, regulations and treaties, and the administrative and judicial authorities interpreting them, are subject to change at any time, and any such change may be retroactive. Our effective tax rate for 2007 is based upon our non-U.S. subsidiaries qualifying for treaty benefits. The eligibility of our non-U.S. subsidiaries for treaty benefits generally depends upon, among other things, at least 50% of the principal class of shares in such subsidiaries being “ultimately owned” by U.S. citizens and persons that are “qualified residents” for purposes of the treaty. It is possible that this requirement may not be met, and even if it is met, we may not be able to document that fact to the satisfaction of the IRS. If our non-U.S. subsidiaries are not treated as eligible for treaty benefits, such subsidiaries will be subject to additional U.S. taxes, including “branch profits tax” on their “effectively connected earnings and profits” (as determined for U.S. federal income tax purposes) at a rate of 30% rather than a treaty rate of 5%. The inability, for any reason, to achieve and maintain an overall income tax rate approximately equal to the rate used in preparing our consolidated financial statements could materially adversely affect our business and our results of operations and could materially adversely affect our financial statements. Tax authorities may challenge our tax computations, including our transfer pricing methods, and their application. In the ordinary course of our business, we are subject to tax audits in various jurisdictions. Tax authorities may challenge our tax computations, including our transfer pricing methods, and their application. While we believe our tax computations, including transfer pricing results, are correct and properly reflected on our financial statements, the tax authorities may disagree. Recently introduced U.S. tax legislation would, if enacted in its proposed form, preclude Lazard Ltd from qualifying for treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which could impact our effective tax rate starting in 2013. On June 14, 2007, the Chairman and the Ranking Republican Member of the United States Senate Committee on Finance introduced legislation that would tax as corporations those publicly traded partnerships that directly or indirectly derive any income from investment adviser or asset management services. This new legislation, if enacted in its proposed form, would be effective as of June 14, 2007, and, under a transition rule, it would apply to Lazard Ltd in respect of Lazard Ltd’s taxable year beginning January 1, 2013. Such legislation, as proposed, may impact Lazard Ltd’s U.S. tax liability. At this time we are unable to predict with any degree of certainty the impact, if any, this proposed legislation will have on our effective tax rate in 2013 and thereafter if it is enacted. A number of our managing directors and other professional employees own rights to participate in the equity value, but not the earnings, in one of the principal operating subsidiaries of our Asset Management business, which could result in those persons receiving additional payments due to future actions with respect to that business. Most of the managing directors of LAM and other LAM employees hold LAM equity units. These LAM equity units entitle their holders to payments in connection with selected fundamental transactions affecting 26 Table of Contents Lazard Group or LAM, including a dissolution or a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of Lazard Group or LAM, a merger of, or sale of all of the interests in, LAM whereby Lazard Group ceases to own a majority of or have the right to appoint a majority of the board of directors of LAM, or a non-ordinary course sale of assets by LAM that exceeds $50 million in value. As a general matter, in connection with a fundamental transaction that triggers the LAM equity units, the holders of the LAM equity units would be entitled in the aggregate, as of December 31, 2007, to approximately 23% of the net proceeds or imputed valuation of LAM in such transaction after deductions for payment to creditors of LAM and the return of capital in LAM. As of December 31, 2007, LAM’s capital for these purposes totaled approximately $53 million, all of which is owned by Lazard Group. Holders of LAM equity units may not necessarily be employed by us at the time of such event, and, to the extent that their units were vested, they would remain entitled to any such payment. We have no current intention to cause or otherwise trigger a fundamental transaction that would give rise to payment obligations to holders of interests of LAM. The board of directors of LAM, a majority of which is appointed by us, may, in its discretion, grant, subject to specified vesting conditions, LAM equity interests that include profit rights to managing directors of, and other persons providing services to, LAM, as a portion of their ongoing compensation. No such LAM equity interests have been granted as of December 31, 2007, nor is there any present intention to do so. However, the provisions of the LAM limited liability company agreement that govern the LAM equity units may impair our ability to sell assets or securities of LAM in the future or otherwise limit our operational flexibility and could result in a substantial amount of consideration being payable to key employees of our Asset Management business, impairing our ability to retain these persons and adversely affecting our business, results of operations or financial condition. The reorganization of our business from a privately held firm to a publicly traded company may adversely affect our ability to recruit, retain and motivate key employees. In connection with the separation and recapitalization, most of the then working members received LAZ-MD Holdings exchangeable interests that will in the future be effectively exchangeable for shares of Lazard Ltd’s common stock. The ownership of, and the ability to realize equity value from, these LAZ-MD Holdings exchangeable interests and underlying shares of Lazard Ltd’s common stock is not dependent upon a managing director’s continued employment with our company, and our managing directors are not restricted from leaving Lazard by the potential loss of the value of these membership interests. These shares of common stock, upon full exchange, will ultimately be a more liquid security than their former membership interests in Lazard Group. The LAZ-MD Holdings exchangeable interests are subject to restrictions on transfer and the timing of exchange. Most of these restrictions on the timing of exchange will lapse in May, 2008. Managing directors who remain with Lazard through such date may subsequently leave Lazard without losing their right to early exchangeability of their LAZ-MD Holdings exchangeable interests. In addition, those managing directors who had capital interests and rights at Lazard Group that were exchanged in the separation for capital interests and rights in LAZ-MD Holdings, had an aggregate of 50% of those LAZ-MD Holdings capital interests and rights redeemed in May, 2006 and had the remainder redeemed in May, 2007. The steps we have taken to encourage the continued service of these individuals may not be effective. Our financial performance depends on our ability to achieve our target compensation expense level, and the failure to achieve this target level may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. A key driver of our profitability is our ability to generate revenue while achieving our compensation expense levels. We intend to operate at or below our target level of compensation and benefits expense. Our policy is that our compensation and benefits expense will not exceed 57.5% of operating revenue each year. Compensation and benefits expense was 55.7%, 56.7% and 57.0% of operating revenue for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively (with the 2005 percentage being pro forma to exclude amounts relating to the separated businesses, but including payments for minority interest for services rendered by LAM 27 Table of Contents managing directors and employee members of LAM and services rendered by other managing directors). Increased competition for senior professionals, changes in the financial markets generally or other factors could prevent us from continuing to maintain this objective. Failure to achieve this target ratio may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. Lazard Ltd is controlled by LAZ-MD Holdings and, through the amended and restated LAZ-MD Holdings stockholders’ agreement, by certain of our managing directors, whose interests may differ from those of other stockholders and our note holders. LAZ-MD Holdings holds Lazard Ltd’s Class B common stock. Pursuant to the LAZ-MD Holdings stockholders’ agreement, the members of LAZ-MD Holdings party to that agreement are individually entitled to direct LAZ-MD Holdings how to vote their proportionate interest in Lazard Ltd’s Class B common stock on an as-if-exchanged basis. The voting power associated with the Class B common stock is intended to mirror the members’ indirect economic interest in Lazard Group. Through the LAZ-MD Holdings stockholders’ agreement, the members currently are able to effectively exercise control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of all directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, and other matters affecting the members. This voting power may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of Lazard Ltd. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have documented and tested our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent auditors regarding the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. We are in compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act as of December 31, 2007. However, if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Failure to maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on our business. LAZ-MD Holdings, Lazard Group, LFCM Holdings and Lazard Ltd entered into various arrangements, including the master separation agreement, which contain cross-indemnification obligations of LAZ-MD Holdings, Lazard Group, LFCM Holdings and Lazard Ltd, that any party may be unable to satisfy. The master separation agreement that Lazard Ltd entered into with Lazard Group, LAZ-MD Holdings and LFCM Holdings provides, among other things, that LFCM Holdings generally will indemnify Lazard Ltd, Lazard Group and LAZ-MD Holdings for losses that we incur arising out of, or relating to, the separated businesses and the businesses conducted by LFCM Holdings and losses that Lazard Ltd, Lazard Group or LAZ-MD Holdings incur arising out of, or relating to, LFCM Holdings’ breach of the master separation agreement. In addition, LAZ-MD Holdings generally will indemnify Lazard Ltd, Lazard Group and LFCM Holdings for losses that they incur arising out of, or relating to, LAZ-MD Holdings’ breach of the master separation agreement. Our ability to collect under the indemnities from LAZ-MD Holdings or LFCM Holdings depends on their financial position. For example, persons may seek to hold us responsible for liabilities assumed by LAZ-MD Holdings or LFCM Holdings. If these liabilities are significant and we are held liable for them, we may not be able to recover any or all of the amount of those losses from LAZ-MD Holdings or LFCM Holdings should either be financially unable to perform under their indemnification obligations. We currently have a number of ongoing obligations in respect of which, pursuant to the master separation agreement and other ancillary agreements, LFCM Holdings is providing certain indemnities. For example, we entered into an arrangement with LFCM Holdings relating to the costs of excess space in the U.K. LFCM Holdings will pay to Lazard Group $25 million in the aggregate, of which $17.3 million was due and paid through December 31, 2007. 28 Table of Contents In addition, Lazard Group generally will indemnify LFCM Holdings and LAZ-MD Holdings for liabilities related to Lazard Group’s businesses and Lazard Group will indemnify LFCM Holdings and LAZ-MD Holdings for losses that they incur to the extent arising out of, or relating to, Lazard Group’s or Lazard Ltd’s breach of the master separation agreement. Several of the ancillary agreements that Lazard Group entered into together with the master separation agreement also provide for separate indemnification arrangements. For example, under the administrative services agreement, Lazard Group provides a range of services to LFCM Holdings, including information technology, general office and building services and financing and accounting services, and LFCM Holdings will generally indemnify Lazard Group for liabilities that Lazard Group incurs arising from the provision of these services absent Lazard Group’s intentional misconduct. Lazard Group may face claims for indemnification from LFCM Holdings and LAZ-MD Holdings under these provisions regarding matters for which Lazard Group has agreed to indemnify them. If these liabilities are significant, Lazard Group may be required to make substantial payments, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. We have potential conflicts of interest with LAZ-MD Holdings and LFCM Holdings, and LAZ-MD Holdings and LFCM Holdings could each act in a way that favors its interests to our detriment. As of December 31, 2007, LAZ-MD Holdings held approximately 51.7% of Lazard Ltd’s voting power through Lazard Ltd’s single share of Class B common stock and 51.7% of the outstanding Lazard Group common membership interests. In addition, LAZ-MD Holdings’ board of directors is composed of five individuals, all of whom are managing directors or officers of Lazard Ltd or its affiliates, including its Vice Chairman and its President. Lazard Group’s board of directors and executive officers are the same as those of Lazard Ltd. The voting and equity ownership of LAZ-MD Holdings and its members, and the service of officers and managing directors of our company as directors of LAZ-MD Holdings, could create conflicts of interest when LAZ-MD Holdings and those directors and officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for LAZ-MD Holdings and us, including potential acquisitions of businesses, the issuance or disposition of securities by us, the election of new or additional directors of Lazard Ltd, the payment of dividends by Lazard Ltd and Lazard Group, our relationship with LFCM Holdings and other matters. We also expect that LAZ-MD Holdings will manage its ownership of us so that it will not be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, including by maintaining its voting power in Lazard Ltd above 25% absent an applicable exemption or exclusion from the Act. This may result in conflicts with us, including those relating to acquisitions or offerings by us involving issuances of Lazard Ltd’s common stock or securities convertible or exchangeable into shares of Lazard Ltd’s common stock that would dilute LAZ-MD Holdings’ voting power in Lazard Ltd. Since the members of LAZ-MD Holdings who are parties to the LAZ-MD Holdings stockholders’ agreement are entitled to individually direct their proportionate share of the vote of Lazard Ltd’s Class B common stock on an as-if-exchanged basis and also own and control LFCM Holdings, their control of LAZ-MD Holdings and the vote of the share of Lazard Ltd’s Class B common stock gives rise to potential conflicts between LFCM Holdings and LAZ-MD Holdings, on the one hand, and our company, on the other hand, as discussed below. In addition, Mr. Wasserstein, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, serves as the Chairman and is the majority owner of Wasserstein Holdings, LLC, the ultimate general partner of Wasserstein & Co., LP, a separate merchant banking firm that may compete with LFCM Holdings’ or our alternative investment and private equity fund management activities. We may have potential business conflicts of interest with LAZ-MD Holdings and LFCM Holdings with respect to our past and ongoing relationships that could harm our business operations. Pursuant to the LAZ-MD Holdings amended and restated stockholders’ agreement, LAZ-MD Holdings will vote the single share of Lazard Ltd Class B common stock, which, as of December 31, 2007, represented approximately 51.7% of Lazard Ltd’s voting power, as directed by its individual members who are party to that 29 Table of Contents agreement. These same persons generally own and control LFCM Holdings, which holds the separated businesses. In addition, several employees of Lazard provide services to LFCM Holdings. Conflicts of interest may arise between LFCM Holdings and us in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships, including: • labor, tax, employee benefits, indemnification and other matters arising from the separation, • intellectual property matters, • business combinations involving us, • business operations or business opportunities of LFCM Holdings or us that would compete with the other party’s business opportunities, including investment banking by us and the management of alternative investment funds by LFCM Holdings, particularly as some of the managing directors provide services to LFCM Holdings, • the terms of the master separation agreement and related ancillary agreements, including the operation of the alternative investment fund management business and Lazard Group’s option to purchase the business, • the nature, quality and pricing of administrative services to be provided by us, and • the provision of services by certain of our managing directors to LFCM Holdings. In addition, the administrative services agreement commits us to provide a range of services to LFCM Holdings and LAZ-MD Holdings, which could require the expenditure of significant amounts of time by our management. Our agreements with LAZ-MD Holdings and LFCM Holdings may be amended upon agreement of the parties to those agreements. During the time that we are controlled by LAZ-MD Holdings, LAZ-MD Holdings may be able to require us to agree to amendments to these agreements. We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts and, even if we do, the resolution may be less favorable to us than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated party. The use of the “Lazard” brand name by subsidiaries of LFCM Holdings may expose us to reputational harm that could affect our operations and adversely affect our financial position should these subsidiaries take actions that damage the brand name. The “Lazard” brand name has 160 years of heritage, connoting, we believe, world-class professional advice, independence and global capabilities with deeply rooted, local know-how. LFCM Holdings operates as a separate legal entity, and Lazard Group licensed to subsidiaries of LFCM Holdings that operate the separated businesses the use of the “Lazard” brand name for certain specified purposes, including in connection with alternative investment fund management and capital markets activities. As these subsidiaries of LFCM Holdings historically have and will continue to use the “Lazard” brand name, and because we no longer control these entities, there is a risk of reputational harm to us if these subsidiaries have, or in the future were to, among other things, engage in poor business practices, experience adverse results or otherwise damage the reputational value of the “Lazard” brand name. These risks could expose us to liability and also may adversely affect our revenue and our business prospects. Our subsidiaries will be required to pay LFCM Holdings for most of the benefit relating to any additional tax depreciation or amortization deductions our subsidiaries may claim as a result of the tax basis step-up our subsidiaries receive in connection with the equity public offering and related transactions. In connection with our secondary offering in December, 2006, LAZ-MD Holdings exchangeable interests were, in effect, partially exchanged for shares of our common stock. Additional exchanges are scheduled to take place in the future. The redemption and the exchanges may result in increases in the tax basis of the tangible and 30 Table of Contents intangible assets of Lazard Group attributable to our subsidiaries’ interest in Lazard Group that otherwise would not have been available. These increases in tax basis may reduce the amount of tax that our subsidiaries would otherwise be required to pay in the future, although the IRS may challenge all or part of that tax basis increase, and a court could sustain such a challenge. Our subsidiaries entered into a tax receivable agreement with LFCM Holdings that provides for the payment by our subsidiaries to LFCM Holdings of 85% of the amount of cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax or franchise tax that we actually realize as a result of these increases in tax basis and of certain other tax benefits related to entering into the tax receivable agreement, including tax benefits attributable to payments under the tax receivable agreement. We expect to benefit from the remaining 15% of cash savings realized. Our subsidiaries have the right to terminate the tax receivable agreement at any time for an amount based on an agreed value of certain payments remaining to be made under the tax receivable agreement at such time. While the actual amount and timing of any payments under this agreement will vary depending upon a number of factors, including the timing of exchanges, the extent to which such exchanges are taxable, the allocation of the step-up among the Lazard Group assets, and the amount and timing of our income, we expect that, as a result of the size of the increases in the tax basis of the tangible and intangible assets of Lazard Group attributable to our subsidiaries’ interest in Lazard Group, during the 24-year term of the tax receivable agreement, the payments that our subsidiaries may make to LFCM Holdings could be substantial. If the LAZ-MD Holdings exchangeable interests had been effectively exchanged in a taxable transaction for common stock at the close of business on December 31, 2007, the aggregate increase in tax basis attributable to our subsidiaries’ interest in Lazard Group would have been approximately $3.4 billion (based on the then closing price per share of our common stock on the NYSE of $40.68), including the increase in tax basis associated with the redemption and recapitalization. The potential future increase in tax basis will depend on the Lazard common stock price at the time of exchange. The cash savings that our subsidiaries would actually realize as a result of this increase in tax basis likely would be significantly less than this amount multiplied by our effective tax rate due to a number of factors, including sufficient taxable income to absorb the increase in tax basis, the allocation of the increase in tax basis to foreign or non-amortizable assets, the impact of the increase in the tax basis on our ability to use foreign tax credits and the rules relating to the amortization of intangible assets. Our ability to achieve benefits from any such increase, and the payments to be made under this agreement, will depend upon a number of factors, as discussed above, including the timing and amount of our future income. In addition, if the IRS successfully challenges the tax basis increase, under certain circumstances, our subsidiaries could make payments to LFCM Holdings under the tax receivable agreement in excess of our subsidiaries’ cash tax savings. If Lazard Ltd were deemed an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act as a result of its ownership of Lazard Group, applicable restrictions could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. We do not believe that Lazard Ltd is an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act, because Lazard Ltd has the power to appoint and remove the Lazard Group managing members. If Lazard Ltd were to cease participation in the management of Lazard Group or not be deemed to have a majority of the voting power of Lazard Group, its interest in Lazard Group could be deemed an “investment security” for purposes of the Investment Company Act. Similarly, we do not believe that LAZ-MD Holdings is an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act, because LAZ-MD Holdings currently holds a majority of Lazard Ltd’s voting power through Lazard Ltd’s Class B common stock, and Lazard Ltd owns a majority of the voting power of Lazard Group. If LAZ-MD Holdings were to cease to hold a majority of the voting power of Lazard Ltd, or Lazard Ltd were to cease to hold a majority of the voting power of Lazard Group, LAZ-MD Holdings’ interests in Lazard Group could be deemed an “investment security” for purposes of the Investment Company Act. Generally, a person is an “investment company” if it owns investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items), absent an applicable 31 Table of Contents exemption. Lazard Ltd has no material assets other than direct and indirect ownership of Lazard Group common membership interests and its controlling interest in Lazard Group. A determination that this investment was an investment security could result in Lazard Ltd being an investment company under the Investment Company Act and becoming subject to the registration and other requirements of the Investment Company Act. Similarly, LAZ-MD Holdings has no material assets other than its ownership of Lazard Group common membership interests, Lazard Ltd’s Class B common stock and cash. If LAZ-MD Holdings were to cease to hold a majority of the voting power of Lazard Ltd, but continued to own more than 25% of the voting power, it intends to rely on Rule 3a-1 under the Investment Company Act. Rule 3a-1 provides an exclusion from registration as an investment company if a company meets both an asset and an income test and is not otherwise primarily engaged in an investment company business by, among other things, holding itself out to the public as such or by taking controlling interests in companies with a view to realizing profits through subsequent sales of these interests. Generally speaking, a company satisfies the asset test of Rule 3a-1 if it has no more than 45% of the value of its total assets (adjusted to exclude U.S. government securities and cash) in the form of securities other than interests in majority owned subsidiaries and companies which it primarily and actively controls. A company satisfies the income test of Rule 3a-1 if it has derived no more than 45% of its net income for its last four fiscal quarters combined from securities other than interests in majority owned subsidiaries and primarily and actively controlled companies, which it engages primarily in a business other than investing in securities. LAZ-MD Holdings believes that its ownership of more than 25% of the voting power of Lazard Ltd would allow it to rely on Rule 3a-1. A determination that LAZ-MD Holdings is not entitled to rely on Rule 3a-1 could result in LAZ-MD Holdings being an investment company, unless another exemption or exclusion is available, and becoming subject to the registration and other requirements of the Investment Company Act. The Investment Company Act and the rules thereunder contain detailed prescriptions for the organization and operations of investment companies. Among other things, the Investment Company Act and the rules thereunder limit or prohibit transactions with affiliates, impose limitations on the issuance of debt and equity securities, prohibit the issuance of stock options, and impose certain governance requirements. Lazard Ltd intends to conduct its operations, and expects that LAZ-MD Holdings will conduct its operations, so that neither Lazard Ltd nor LAZ-MD Holdings, respectively, will be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act. However, if anything were to happen which would cause Lazard Ltd or LAZ-MD Holdings to be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, requirements imposed by the Investment Company Act, including limitations on its or our capital structure, ability to transact business with affiliates (including LAZ-MD Holdings or us, as the case may be) and ability to compensate key employees, could make it impractical for us to continue our business as currently conducted, impair the agreements and arrangements, including the master separation agreement and related agreements and the transactions contemplated by those agreements, between and among Lazard Ltd, LAZ-MD Holdings, Lazard Group and LFCM Holdings or any combination thereof and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 32 Table of Contents SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS We have made statements under the captions “Business”, “Risk Factors,” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in other sections of this annual report on Form 10-K that are forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as “may,” “might,” “will,” “should,” “expect,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “predict,” “potential” or “continue,” and the negative of these terms and other comparable terminology. These forward-looking statements, which are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us, may include projections of our future financial performance based on our growth strategies and anticipated trends in our business. These statements are only predictions based on our current expectations and projections about future events. There are important factors that could cause our actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from the results, level of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. In particular, you should consider the numerous risks and uncertainties outlined in “Risk Factors,” including the following: • a decline in general economic conditions or the global financial markets, • losses caused by financial or other problems experienced by third parties, • losses due to unidentified or unanticipated risks, • a lack of liquidity, i.e., ready access to funds, for use in our businesses, and • competitive pressure. These risks and uncertainties are not exhaustive. Other sections of this annual report may include additional factors, which could adversely impact our business and financial performance. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for our management to predict all risks and uncertainties, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Although we believe the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, level of activity, performance or achievements. Moreover, neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of any of these forward-looking statements. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. We are under no duty to update any of these forward-looking statements after the date of this annual report to conform our prior statements to actual results or revised expectations and we do not intend to do so. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about the: • business’ possible or assumed future results of operations and operating cash flows, • business’ strategies and investment policies, • business’ financing plans and the availability of short-term borrowing, • business’ competitive position, • future acquisitions, including the consideration to be paid and the timing of consummation, • potential growth opportunities available to our businesses, • recruitment and retention of our managing directors and employees, • target levels of compensation expense, • business’ potential operating performance, achievements, productivity improvements, efficiency and cost reduction efforts, • likelihood of success and impact of litigation, 33 Table of Contents • expected tax rate, • changes in interest and tax rates, • expectation with respect to the economy, securities markets, the market for mergers and acquisitions activity, the market for asset management activity and other industry trends, • effects of competition on our business, and • impact of future legislation and regulation on our business. The Company is committed to providing timely and accurate information to the investing public, consistent with our legal and regulatory obligations. To that end, the Company uses its websites to convey information about our businesses, including the anticipated release of quarterly financial results, quarterly financial, statistical and business-related information, and the posting of updates of AUM in various mutual funds, hedge funds and other investment products managed by LAM and its subsidiaries. Monthly updates of these funds are posted to the LAM website (www.lazardnet.com) on the 3rd business day following the end of each month. Investors can link to Lazard Ltd, Lazard Group and their operating company websites through http://www.lazard.com. Our websites and the information contained therein or connected thereto shall not be deemed to be incorporated into this annual report. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 