ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our Form 10-K contains a number of statements about our future operations. We make statements regarding anticipated product introductions, changes in markets, customers and customer order rates, expenditures in research and development, growth in revenue, taxation levels, effects of pricing, growth in our foreign operations and other statements not specifically identified, all of which represent our expectations and beliefs about future events. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “expect,” “intend,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “predict,” “potential,” “continue” or similar words and expressions. These statements are only predictions and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. The factors that may cause our operations to vary materially from those contemplated by our forward-looking statements include: Economic and market conditions can adversely affect our revenue growth and operating results. Demand for enterprise software and our solutions is affected by general economic conditions, competition, product acceptance and technology lifecycles. A general weakening of the economy and business conditions that affect information technology and the industries we serve could result in delays and decreases of customer purchases and decreases in our renewal rates for software maintenance. Our operating results may be adversely affected by downturns in the industries we serve. Our financial results depend, in significant part, upon economic and market conditions in the manufacturing and hospitality industries. The hospitality industry has experienced significant downturns in the past as a result of 9/11 and the SARS outbreak. Disasters such as the tsunami in the Indian Ocean region, hurricanes Katrina and Rita in the United States and the avian influenza worry could have similar impacts upon both the manufacturing and hospitality markets in the regions directly or indirectly affected. Other changes in the hospitality and manufacturing markets could also impact our ability to sell our products and services. The markets for some of our products are mature and we may have difficulty generating significant new software license sales in those markets. The combination of a decline in the level of manufacturing activity in the United States and Western Europe and saturation due to market maturity of enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) software may limit new license sales growth. We may become more dependent on products that are not widely accepted and that have limited sales and service revenue history. We are marketing our Fourth Shift Edition for SAP Business One product to small and mid-sized manufacturing companies and plants or divisions of multinational enterprises. This product was released in April 2005. We have not sold substantial numbers of these products and cannot be certain that they will be widely accepted in the marketplace. Sales of Fourth Shift Edition are dependent upon continuation of agreements with, and cooperation from, SAP and termination of those agreements and cooperation could render continued sales difficult or impractical. We are devoting significant resources to marketing Fourth Shift Edition for SAP Business One as one of our leading product offerings for small to mid-sized manufacturers. We have developed Fourth Shift Edition in accordance with a development agreement with SAP Business One. We distribute Fourth Shift Edition directly, with copies of SAP Business One that we sell as an SAP Business One reseller, and in part through arrangements with other SAP Business One resellers. Termination of our agreements with SAP Business One could end our ability to sell SAP Business One, limit our market for the product to existing SAP Business One users and terminate many of our distribution channels. We have substantial international sales which are subject to the many risks of international operations. Our operations are international in scope, with operations in Europe, Middle East, China and Africa. For the year ended September 30, 2006, 46.1% of our revenue was derived from sales outside the United States. These sales are subject to many of the risks of international operations including: 13 Table of Contents • higher operating costs in some regions; • currency controls and fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • changes in local market business requirements and increased cost and development time required to modify and translate our products for local markets; • inability to recruit qualified personnel in a specific country or region; • difficulty in establishing and maintaining relationships with local resellers, systems integrators or other third-party vendors; • differing foreign technical standards; • differing regulatory requirements; • export restrictions and controls, tariffs and other trade barriers; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights; • changes in political and economic conditions; • seasonal reductions in business activity; • potentially adverse tax assessments; and • terrorism, disease, or other events that may affect local economies and access to them, and that may particularly affect utilization of hotels and therefore our hospitality business. The sales cycle for our products makes it difficult to predict our operating results. Our customers often take significant time evaluating our products before licensing our software. The period between initial customer contact and purchase may vary from one month to more than one year. During the evaluation period, prospective customers may delay purchases, may decide not to purchase and may scale down proposed orders for reasons that we do not control and cannot predict including: • changes in customer personnel; • reduced demand for enterprise software solutions; • introduction of products by our competitors; • lower prices offered by our competitors; • changes in the budgets and purchasing priorities of our customers; • need for education of customer personnel; and • changes in the information systems of our customers. A large part of our sales typically occurs in the last month of a quarter, frequently in the last week or even the last days of the quarter. If these sales were delayed from one quarter to the next for any reason, our operating results could fluctuate dramatically. We may be unable to retain or attract customers if we do not develop new products and enhance our current products in response to technological changes and competing products. We have been required, and will continue to be required, to adapt our products to rapidly changing standards for operating systems, databases and other technologies. We will be unable to compete effectively if we are unable to: • maintain and enhance our technological capabilities to correspond to these changing environments and standards; • develop and market products and services that meet changing customer needs; and • anticipate or respond to technological changes on a cost-effective and timely basis. A significant portion of our research and development resources are devoted to product upgrades that address new systems and maintenance requirements or add functionality to our products. The remainder of our research and development resources are devoted to new products that we cannot be certain will be widely accepted. 14 Table of Contents Our revenue is partly dependent on renewal of maintenance agreements by our customers. We generate substantial recurring revenue from our customer support program and other software maintenance services, most of which renew annually at the customer’s option. During the year ended September 30, 2006, we generated $43.8 million or approximately 63% of our total revenue from software maintenance services. The level of our maintenance revenue is directly related to the number of our software products that are in active use by customers. If our customers stop using our products, if we are unable to maintain the rate of addition of new customers, or if our customers determine that they cannot afford maintenance, our maintenance revenue can be expected to decline. Revenue generated from customers using legacy products that receive lower rates of development funding represent an increasing risk of cancellation. We may be required to delay revenue recognition into future periods, which could adversely impact our operating results. We may be required to defer revenue recognition due to several factors, including situations where: • our license agreements include applications that are under development or have other undelivered elements which may be essential or may not have vendor specific objective evidence of fair value; • we deliver services which could delay product delivery or acceptance; or • a third-party vendor, whose technology is incorporated into our software products, delays delivery of the final software product to the customer. We are occasionally unable to negotiate contract terms that permit revenue recognition at the time of delivery or even as work on the project is completed. We have adopted anti-takeover defenses that could make it difficult for another company to acquire control of SoftBrands. Provisions in our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, our stockholder rights plan and Delaware law could make it more difficult for other companies to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. Our charter documents contain the following provisions which may inhibit an acquisition: • advance notification procedures for matters to be brought before stockholder meetings; • limitation on who may call stockholder meetings; • prohibition on stockholder action by written consent; • a classified or “staggered” board of directors; and • the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock without a stockholder vote. Further, our stockholder rights plan could delay, deter or prevent any potential bidder from acquiring more than 10% of our voting stock without the agreement of our Board of Directors. Because we are incorporated under Delaware law, a stockholder who acquires more than 15%, but less than 85%, of our stock may have difficulty acquiring us during the three years after the date of the stock acquisition. A number of our competitors are well-established software companies that have advantages over us. We face competition from a number of software companies that have advantages over us due to their larger customer bases, greater name recognition, long operating and product development history, greater international presence and substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources. These competitors include well-established companies such as Microsoft Corporation, Oracle Corporation and SSA, all of which have larger installed customer bases. In addition, we compete with a variety of more specialized software and services vendors, including Epicor Software Corporation, QAD, Inc., SYSPRO Impact Software, Inc., Infor Global Solutions, IFS, Intentia International AB and Glovia International. A recently adopted change in the way companies must account for stock options will affect our earnings and has caused us to change our compensation practices. Through September 30, 2005, we accounted for the issuance of stock options under Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees (“APB 25”). Under APB 25, we recorded compensation expense only in connection with option grants that had an exercise price below fair market value. For option grants that had an exercise price at fair market value, we calculated compensation expense and disclosed the impact on net income (loss) and earnings (loss) per share, as well as the impact of all stock-based compensation expense, only in a footnote to our 15 Table of Contents consolidated financial statements. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123R, Share-Based Payment (“SFAS 123R”) which became effective for us in the first quarter of fiscal 2006. SFAS 123R requires us to report, in our operating statement, the fair value of stock-based benefit awards, stock options, restricted stock and stock appreciation rights as compensation expense affecting both net income (loss) and earnings (loss) per share. Effective December 19, 2005, we changed the equity-based incentives we annually provide to employees to include a combination of stock-settled, stock appreciation rights and restricted stock units, in part to reduce the amount of expense generated upon grant of equity-based awards. Changes in the terms on which we license technologies from third-party vendors could result in the loss of potential revenues or increased costs or delays in the production and improvement of our products. We license third-party software products that we incorporate into, or resell with, our own software products. For example, we incorporate customer relations software licensed from Pivotal into some of our products. We also rely on the SQL database management system for many of our products and the Oracle database management system for some of our products. We have reseller relationships with a number of other companies that allow us to resell their technology with our products. Technology licenses such as these are subject to periodic renewal and may include minimum sales requirements. A failure to renew, or early termination of, these technology licenses could adversely impact our business. If our products infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties, and we are sued for infringement or cannot obtain licenses to these rights on commercially acceptable terms, our business would suffer. Many participants in the technology industry have an increasing number of patents and patent applications, and have demonstrated a readiness to take legal action based on allegations of patent and other intellectual property infringement. As the number and functionality of our products increase, we believe that we may become increasingly subject to the risk of infringement claims. If infringement claims are brought against us, these assertions could distract management and we may have to expend potentially significant funds and resources to defend or settle such claims. If we are found to infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, we could be forced to pay significant license fees or damages. We have limited protection of our intellectual property and, if we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property, we may not be able to compete. We rely on a combination of contract, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws to protect our intellectual property. Existing copyright laws afford only limited protection. In general, we do not release the source code of our products, although we may permit customers to obtain access to our source code through a source code escrow arrangement. This access to our source code may increase the likelihood of misappropriation or other misuse of our intellectual property. In addition, the laws of some countries in which our software products are or may be licensed do not protect our software products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States of America. Defending our software products and intellectual property rights could be costly. Our success depends on our ability to continue to retain and attract qualified personnel. We believe that our success depends upon our ability to continue to train, retain, effectively manage and attract highly skilled technical, managerial, sales and marketing personnel. If our efforts in these areas are not successful, our costs may increase, development and sales efforts may be hindered and our customer service may be degraded. There is intense competition for personnel in the software industry. From time to time, we experience difficulties in locating sufficient highly qualified candidates in desired geographic locations or with required industry-specific expertise. We may need additional capital to make future acquisitions. We believe our cash balances, together with cash from operations and available borrowings under our credit line, will be sufficient to meet our cash requirements through September 30, 2007 and beyond. However, we may need or choose to raise capital for various strategic or operational reasons including acquisitions. There can be no assurance we will be able to raise capital and the pricing and terms of any capital could be unfavorable to current stockholders. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results which could have a material adverse effect on our business or operating results. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and is important in helping to prevent financial fraud. If we are unable to achieve and maintain adequate internal control over 16 Table of Contents financial reporting, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. We have discovered in the past, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal controls that need improvement. For example, in 2005, we discovered a material weakness in our tax reporting compliance that had caused us to incorrectly report the tax benefit from losses from continuing operations as a benefit to discontinued operations, and also discovered a material weakness in disclosure controls that caused errors in our computation of earnings per share and diluted earnings per share. We have implemented, and continue to implement, procedures to remedy these weaknesses as of September 30, 2006. Any failure to implement new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Further, if we become an “accelerated filer” our management will be required to state whether our internal control over financial reporting is effective, and we will be required to obtain attestation of our independent registered public accounting firm to management’s conclusion. If we are not an accelerated filer, our management attestation will be delayed until the fiscal year ended September 30, 2008, and the independent accountant attestation until the fiscal year ended September 30, 2009. If our management is not able to come to a conclusion that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to attest to management’s conclusion, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information. The failure to successfully and timely implement an upgrade of our corporate financial systems could harm our business. In 2006, we commenced implementation of an upgrade to our current financial systems. The upgrade is anticipated to be completed in the first half of 2007, and will, among other things, increase the automation of, and we believe enable greater internal control and productivity for, our financial processes, as well as enable centralization of business functions within the company and improve our data integrity, controls, and the use of our people and systems. Failure to successfully implement the new system in a timely, effective and efficient manner could result in the disruption of our operations, the inability to comply with Sarbanes-Oxley obligations and the inability to report our financial results in a timely manner. Our substantial level of indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness that requires significant interest payments. Our indebtedness could have important consequences to us, including the following: • limiting our ability to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes; • vulnerability to fluctuations in interest rates, as a substantial portion of our indebtedness bears variable rates of interest; • reducing our flexibility in planning for, or responding to, changing conditions in our business and our industry; • limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; and • making us more vulnerable to general economic downturns and adverse developments in our business. We will require a significant amount of cash to service our indebtedness. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to pay or refinance our indebtedness, and fund working capital and planned capital expenditures, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. Our ability to generate cash, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory, legislative and other factors that are beyond our control. Our business may not generate cash flow from operations that is adequate to repay our indebtedness, or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we cannot service our indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as refinancing the indebtedness, seeking additional equity, selling assets or reducing or delaying development, capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions or investments. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness or locate additional equity investment on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. 17 Table of Contents Our credit agreement imposes significant operating and financial restrictions on us, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking some corporate actions. Our credit agreement imposes restrictions on our ability to finance operations and capital needs, respond to changing business or economic conditions and to engage in other transactions or business activities that may be important to our growth strategy. These restrictions will, among other things, limit our ability to: • subject to minor exceptions, incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; • pay dividends or make other distributions (except as required under our outstanding preferred stock); • repurchase our stock; • make investments; • sell or otherwise dispose of assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries, except inventory in the ordinary course; • create liens; • consolidate, merge or liquidate; • change the general nature of our business; • prepay, redeem or repurchase debt; and • enter into transactions with affiliates. In addition, our credit agreement requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests. Covenants in our credit agreement also require us to use a portion of the proceeds we receive in issuances of debt or equity and some asset sales to repay outstanding borrowings under our credit agreement. We cannot assure you that these covenants will not adversely affect our ability to fulfill our capital needs, to pursue business opportunities or to plan for or react to market conditions. A breach of any of those covenants, or our inability to maintain the required financial ratios, could result in a default. If a default occurs, the lenders could elect to declare the indebtedness, together with accrued interest and other fees, immediately due and payable and proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. The Purchase Agreement relating to our Series C-1 Preferred Stock, the Purchase Agreement relating to our Series D Preferred Stock, and the provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation establishing the terms and preferences of our various series of preferred stock, may limit our ability to pursue new financing transactions and may force us to consider sale transactions at times that are not favorable. The Purchase Agreements under which we sold Series C-1 Preferred Stock and Series D Preferred Stock contain covenants that impose restrictions on our operations that are similar to the restrictions contained in our credit agreement. These covenants prohibit us from, among other things: • selling a controlling interest in our voting securities, selling substantially all of our assets, or merging with an entity in a manner that effects our ownership through August 14, 2009 unless the holders of preferred stock are paid 175% of the purchase price of the preferred stock; • incurring indebtedness unless certain financial ratios are exceeded; • entering into transactions with affiliates; • selling any interest in a subsidiary; • materially altering our business; or • completing an acquisition. In addition, these agreements require us, among other things, to 18 Table of Contents • maintain exchange listing; • provide certain financial information; • allow the holders to purchase a pro rata portion of any securities that we sell privately; and • appoint a representative of the purchasers to our board. If we fail to comply with these covenants, if we fail to pay dividends on the preferred stock, or if the preferred stock remains outstanding seven years after it is issued, and subject to cure provisions, the purchasers have the right to cause us to retain an investment banker to assist us in conducting a sale of SoftBrands. Although any such sale would be subject to the exercise of the fiduciary obligations of our board, the retention of a banker could cause such a sale to occur at a time when it is not advantageous, or cause publicity that damages our relationships with customers, vendors, and employees. We may not successfully integrate our recently completed acquisition of MAI. Our acquisition of MAI Systems Corporation requires the integration of two businesses that previously operated independently, often competing in some of the same or similar markets. If we cannot successfully integrate MAI’s operations with ours, or if we cannot complete development within a reasonable period of time, we may experience material negative consequences to our business, financial condition or results of operations. Successful integration of MAI’s operations with our operations will depend on our ability to manage the combined operations, to realize opportunities for revenue growth presented by broader product offerings and expanded geographic coverage and to eliminate redundant and excess costs. If our integration efforts are not successful, we may not be able to maintain the levels of revenue, earnings or operating efficiency that MAI and SoftBrands had achieved as separate companies. The adoption of new accounting standards or interpretations could adversely impact our results of operations. Our implementation of new accounting rules and interpretations, including FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes and the Securities and Exchange Commission final rule on Executive Compensation and Related Person Disclosure, or compliance with changes in existing accounting rules could adversely affect our balance sheet or results of operations, or cause unanticipated fluctuations in our results of operations in future periods. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 