ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The financial condition, business, operations, and prospects of the Company involve a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, which constitute the material risks relating to the Company, and the other information in this report. If any of the following risks are realized, the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed and the value of the Company’s stock could suffer. This means that investors and stockholders of the Company could lose all or a part of their investment. 7 RISKS RELATING TO THE PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA Certain Political and Economic Considerations Relating to China Could Adversely Affect Our Company. The PRC is transitioning from a planned economy to a market economy. While the PRC government has pursued economic reforms since its adoption of the open-door policy in 1978, a large portion of the PRC economy is still operating under five-year plans and annual state plans. Through these plans and other economic measures, such as control on foreign exchange, taxation and restrictions on foreign participation in the domestic market of various industries, the PRC government exerts considerable direct and indirect influence on the economy. Many of the economic reforms carried out by the PRC government are unprecedented or experimental, and are expected to be refined and improved. Other political, economic and social factors can also lead to further readjustment of such reforms. This refining and readjustment process may not necessarily have a positive effect on our operations or future business development. Our operating results may be adversely affected by changes in the PRC’s economic and social conditions as well as by changes in the policies of the PRC government, such as changes in laws and regulations (or the official interpretation thereof), measures which may be introduced to control inflation, changes in the interest rate or method of taxation, and the imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion. The Chinese Government Exerts Substantial Influence Over The Manner In Which We Must Conduct Our Business Activities Which Could Adversely Affect Our Company. China only recently has permitted provincial and local economic autonomy and private economic activities. The Chinese government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and State ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to toll collection standards, taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of these jurisdictions may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof, and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties or joint ventures. The Chinese Legal System Has Inherent Uncertainties That Could Limit The Legal Protections Available To You. Our contractual arrangements are governed by the laws of the People’s Republic of China. China’s legal system is based upon written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but are not binding on subsequent cases and have limited value as precedents. Since 1979, the Chinese legislative bodies have promulgated laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. However, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their non-binding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties, and therefore you may not have legal protections for certain matters in China. All Of Our Assets Are Located In China, Any Dividends Of Proceeds From Liquidation Is Subject To The Approval Of The Relevant Chinese Government Agencies. Our assets are located inside China. Under the laws governing foreign invested enterprises in China, dividend distribution and liquidation are allowed but subject to special procedures under the relevant laws and rules. Any dividend payments will be subject to the decision of our Board of Directors and subject to foreign exchange rules governing such repatriation. Any liquidation is subject to both the relevant government agency’s approval and supervision as well the foreign exchange control. This may generate additional risk for our investors in case of dividend payments and liquidation. Future Inflation In China May Inhibit Our Activity To Conduct Business In China. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and high rates of inflation. These factors have led to the adoption by Chinese government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. While inflation has been more moderate since 1995, high inflation may in the future cause Chinese government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China and thereby harm our business operations. 8 Currency Conversion And Exchange Rate Volatility Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition. The PRC government imposes control over the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies. Under the current unified floating exchange rate system, the People’s Bank of China (PBOC) publishes an exchange rate, which we refer to as the PBOC exchange rate, based on the previous day’s dealings in the inter-bank foreign exchange market. Financial institutions authorized to deal in foreign currency may enter into foreign exchange transactions at exchange rates within an authorized range above or below the PBOC exchange rate according to market conditions. Pursuant to the Foreign Exchange Control Regulations of the PRC issued by the State Council which came into effect on April 1, 1996, and the Regulations on the Administration of Foreign Exchange Settlement, Sale and Payment of the PRC which came into effect on July 1, 1996, regarding foreign exchange control, conversion of Renminbi into foreign exchange by Foreign Investment Enterprises (“ FIEs ”), for use on current account items, including the distribution of dividends and profits to foreign investors, is permissible. FIEs are permitted to convert their after-tax dividends and profits to foreign exchange and remit such foreign exchange to their foreign exchange bank accounts in the PRC. Conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies for capital account items, including direct investment, loans, and security investment, is still under certain restrictions. On January 14, 1997, the State Council amended the Foreign Exchange Control Regulations and added, among other things, an important provision, which provides that the PRC government shall not impose restrictions on recurring international payments and transfers under current account items. Enterprises in the PRC (including FIEs) which require foreign exchange for transactions relating to current account items, may, without approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, effect payment from their foreign exchange account or convert and pay at the designated foreign exchange banks by providing valid receipts and proofs. Convertibility of foreign exchange in respect of capital account items, such as direct investment and capital contribution, is still subject to certain restrictions, and prior approval from the SAFE or its relevant branches must be sought. Since 1994, the exchange rate for Renminbi against the United States dollars has remained relatively stable, most of the time in the region of approximately RMB8.3 to US$1.00. However, in 2005, the Chinese government announced that would begin pegging the exchange rate of the Chinese Renminbi against a number of currencies, rather than just the U.S. Dollar. As our operations are primarily in China, any significant revaluation of the Chinese Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues and financial condition. For example, to the extent that we need to convert United States dollars into Chinese Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of this currency against the United States dollar could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Conversely, if we decide to convert Chinese Renminbi into United States dollars for other business purposes and the United States dollar appreciates against this currency, the United States dollar equivalent of the Chinese Renminbi we convert would be reduced. The Value Of Our Securities Will Be Affected By The Foreign Exchange Rate Between U.S. Dollars And Renminbi. The value of the Company’s Common Stock will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and Renminbi, and between those currencies and other currencies in which our sales may be denominated. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for our operational needs and should the Renminbi appreciate against the U.S. dollar at that time, our financial position, the business of the Company, and the price of our Common Stock may be harmed. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of declaring dividends on our Common Stock or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Renminbi, the U.S. dollar equivalent of our earnings from our China operations would be reduced. You May Experience Difficulties In Effecting Service Of Legal Process, Enforcing Foreign Judgments Or Bringing Original Actions In China Based On United States Or Other Foreign Laws Against Us. We conduct our operations in China and a significant portion of our assets is located in China. In addition, our directors and executive officers reside within China, and substantially all of the assets of these persons are located within China. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon those directors or executive officers, including with respect to matters arising under U.S. federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. Moreover, our Chinese counsel has advised us that China does not have treaties with the U.S. and many other countries that provide for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgment of courts. As a result, recognition and enforcement in China of judgments of a court of the U.S. or any other jurisdiction in relation to any matter may be difficult or impossible. 9 Our Significant Amount Of Deposits In Certain Banks In China May Be At Risk If These Banks Go Bankrupt During Our Deposit Period. As of June 30, 2011, we had approximately RMB160.4 million (approximately US$24.8 million) in banks in China, which almost constitute all of our total cash. The terms of these deposits are, in general, up to twelve (12) months. Historically, deposits in Chinese banks are secure due to the state policy on protecting depositors’ interests. However, China promulgated a new Bankruptcy Law in August 2006, which has come into effect on June 1, 2007, which contains a separate article expressly stating that the State Council may promulgate implementation measures for the bankruptcy of Chinese banks based on the Bankruptcy Law. Under the new Bankruptcy Law, a Chinese bank may go bankrupt. In addition, since China’s concession to WTO, foreign banks have been gradually permitted to operate in China and have been severe competitors against Chinese banks in many aspects, especially since the opening of Renminbi business to foreign banks in late 2006. Therefore, the risk of bankruptcy of those banks in which we have deposits has increased. In the event of bankruptcy of one of the banks which holds our deposits, we are unlikely to recover our deposits back in full since we are unlikely to be classified as a secured creditor based on PRC laws. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS Because Our Operating History Is Limited And The Revenue And Income Potential Of Our Business And Markets Are Unproven, We Cannot Predict Whether We Will Meet Internal or External Expectations Of Future Performance. We believe that our future success depends on our ability to significantly increase revenue from toll collections, of which we have a limited history. The Expressway marketplace features high investment and a long recovery period. The main market risk in connection with our Company is the future traffic volume less than the predicted amount. Accordingly, our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies with a limited operating history. These risks include our ability to: · offer new and innovative services on the Expressway; · attract billboard advertisers; · attract more travelers; · respond effectively to competitive pressures and address the effects of strategic relationships or corporate combinations; · maintain our current, and develop new, strategic relationships; · increase awareness of the Expressway and continue to build traveler loyalty; · attract and retain qualified management and employees; and · upgrade our technology to support increased traffic and expanded services. Our Business And Growth Could Suffer If We Are Unable To Hire And Retain Key Personnel That Are In High Demand. We depend upon the continued contributions of our senior management and other key personnel, including Li Xipeng and Zhang Chunxian. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, revenues or prospects. We do not maintain key man insurance on the lives of these individuals at present. As we plan to expand, we will have to attract managerial staff. We may not be able to identify and retain qualified personnel due to our lack of understanding of different cultures and lack of local contacts. This may impede any potential expansion. Our future success will also depend on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified technical, engineering, managerial, finance, marketing, security and customer service personnel in China. Qualified individuals are in high demand, and we may not be able to successfully attract, assimilate or retain the personnel we need to succeed. If We Need Additional Capital To Fund Our Growing Operations, We May Not Be Able To Obtain Sufficient Capital And May Be Forced To Limit The Scope Of Our Operations. We may experience increased capital needs and we may not have enough capital to fund our future operations without additional capital investments. Our capital needs will depend on numerous factors, including (i) our profitability; (ii) the success of our competitors; (iii) the amount of our capital expenditures; and (iv) new infrastructure project investment. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain capital in the future to meet our needs. If we cannot obtain additional funding, we may be required to: · reduce our investments in infrastructure industry; · limit our expansion efforts; and · decrease or eliminate capital expenditures. 10 Such reductions could materially adversely affect our business and our ability to compete. Even if we do find a source of additional capital, we may not be able to negotiate terms and conditions for receiving the additional capital that are acceptable to us. Any future capital investments could dilute or otherwise materially and adversely affect the holdings or rights of our existing stockholders. We cannot give you any assurance that any additional financing will be available to us, or if available, will be on terms favorable to us. Competition With The Railways and Airways in China May Have A Negative Impact On Our Business With the rapid development of the domestic expressway, China is also giving great support to the development of railways and airways. The construction of a special passenger railway and the speed-up of railways in general will be able to greatly improve the transport capacity of passengers and freight by railway and bring about a division of the target clients of the Expressway which could be an impediment to our growth and have a negative impact on our revenues. We Are Exposed To Risks Related To VIE Arrangements With Zhengzhou Simian. On October 10, 2011, we entered into a loan set-off agreement with Tai Ao Expressway whereby we offset the long-term notes receivable from Tai Ao Expressway by the entry of VIE arrangements with Zhengzhou Simian and its stockholder. We describe these arrangements in more detail under “Current Operations of the Company - VIE Arrangements with Zhengzhou Simian Real Estate Co., Ltd.” We have no equity ownership interest in Zhengzhou Simian, and rely on contractual arrangements with Zhengzhou Simian and its stockholders to control and operate Zhengzhou Simian. These contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing control over Zhengzhou Simian as direct ownership would be. For example, Zhengzhou Simian could fail to take actions required for our business despite its contractual obligation to do so. If Zhengzhou Simian, or its stockholder, fails to perform their respective obligations under agreements with us, we may have to incur substantial costs and resources to enforce such arrangements and may have to rely on legal remedies under PRC law, including seeking specific performance or injunctive relief, and claiming damages, which may not be effective. In addition, we may not be able to renew these agreements with Zhengzhou Simian and its stockholder when they expire. Our contractual arrangements with Zhengzhou Simian are governed by PRC law and provide for the resolution of disputes through arbitration in the PRC. Accordingly, these contracts would be interpreted in accordance with PRC law and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. The legal environment in the PRC is not as developed as in the United States and uncertainties in the Chinese legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements. In the event that we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We Have Incurred Operating Losses And May Not Be Profitable In The Future; Our Plans To Maintain And Increase Liquidity May Not Be Successful; The Report Of The Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Includes A Going Concern Uncertainty Explanatory Paragraph. We incurred a net loss of $137 million, and had a working capital deficit of $27 million and cash and cash equivalents of $0.56 million on June 30, 2011. These factors raise substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern, and our independent registered public accounting firm has included a going concern uncertainty explanatory paragraph in their report dated October 10, 2011 which is included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. The Company currently generates its cash flow through its operating profit and borrowings from banks. During the reporting period, to increase its cash resources, the Company obtained a long-term loan of $19 million. The Company also had cash flow from operations of $11 million for the year ended June 30, 2011. As of the date of this report, the Company has not experienced any difficulty in raising funds through bank loans, and has not experienced any liquidity problems in settling payables in the normal course of business and repaying bank loans when they fall due. To improve liquidity, the Company may explore new expansion opportunities and external funding sources. (see Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Successful renewal of our bank loans, however, is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. In addition, the increasingly competitive industry conditions under which we operate have negatively impacted our results of operations and cash flows and may continue to do so in the future. These factors raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. 11 RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMON STOCK Our Common Stock Price Is Volatile And Could Decline In The Future. The stock market in general and the market price for other companies based in the PRC have experienced extreme stock price fluctuations. In some cases, these fluctuations have been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. Many companies in the toll road industry have experienced dramatic volatility in the market prices of their common stock. We believe that a number of factors, both within and outside of our control, could cause the price of our Common Stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially. Factors such as the following could have a significant adverse impact on the market price of our Common Stock: · announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors; · our ability to obtain additional financing and, if available, the terms and conditions of the financing; · our financial position and results of operations; · litigation; · period-to-period fluctuations in our operating results; · changes in estimates of our performance by any securities analysts; · new regulatory requirements and changes in the existing regulatory environment; · the issuance of new equity securities in a future offering; · changes in interest rates; · changes in toll road standards; · market conditions of securities traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market; · investor perceptions of us and the toll road industry generally; and · general economic and other national conditions. We May Have Difficulty Raising Necessary Capital To Fund Operations As A Result Of Market Price Volatility For Our Shares Of Common Stock. In recent years, the securities markets in the United States have experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market price of securities of many companies have experienced wide fluctuations that have not necessarily been related to the operations, performances, underlying asset values or prospects of such companies. For these reasons, our shares of Common Stock can also be expected to be subject to volatility resulting from purely market forces over which we will have no control. If our business development plans are successful, we may require additional financing to continue to develop and exploit existing and new technologies and to expand into new markets. The exploitation of our technologies may, therefore, be dependent upon our ability to obtain financing through debt and equity or other means. Our Common Stock Is Considered A “Penny Stock” And As A Result, Related Broker-Dealer Requirements Affect Its Trading And Liquidity. Our common stock is deemed to be “penny stock” as that term is defined in Rule 3a51-1 promulgated under the Exchange Act. Penny stocks are stocks: · With a price of less than $5.00 per share; · That are not traded on a “recognized” national exchange; or 12 · In issuers with net tangible assets less than $2.0 million (if the issuer has been in continuous operation for at least three years) or $5.0 million (if in continuous operation for less than three years), or with average revenues of less than $6.0 million for the last three (3) years. Broker/dealers dealing in penny stocks are required to provide potential investors with a document disclosing the risks of penny stocks. Moreover, broker/dealers are required to determine whether an investment in a penny stock is a suitable investment for a prospective investor. These requirements may reduce the potential market for our common stock by reducing the number of potential investors. This may make it more difficult for investors in our common stock to resell shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them. This could cause our stock price to decline. Shares Eligible For Future Sale May Adversely Affect The Market Price Of Our Common Stock. From time to time, certain of our stockholders may be eligible to sell all or some of their shares of Common Stock by means of ordinary brokerage transactions in the open market pursuant to Rule 144, promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, subject to certain limitations. In general, effective February 15, 2008, pursuant to Rule 144, a stockholder (or stockholders whose shares are aggregated) who has satisfied a six (6) months holding period may, under certain circumstances, sell within any three (3) month period a number of securities which does not exceed one percent (1%) of the then outstanding shares of common stock. In addition, effective February 15, 2008, Rule 144 also permits, under certain circumstances, the sale of securities, without any limitations, by a non-affiliate of our company that has satisfied a one (1) year holding period. Any substantial sale of common stock pursuant to Rule 144 may have an adverse effect on the market price of our Common Stock. One Stockholder Which is 50% Controlled By Our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of The Company Exercises Significant Control Over Matters Requiring Stockholder Approval. After giving effect to the issuance of all the shares of Common Stock, Joylink has voting power equal to eighty-five percent (85%) of our voting securities as of the date of this Report. Moreover, Joylink is fifty percent (50%) controlled by Li Xipeng, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board. As a result, Joylink, and our CEO through such stock ownership, exercises control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership in Joylink may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us that may be otherwise viewed as beneficial by stockholders other than Joylink. We May Incur Significant Costs To Ensure Compliance With U.S. Corporate Governance And Accounting Requirements. We may incur significant costs associated with our public company reporting requirements, costs associated with newly applicable corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other rules implemented by the SEC. We expect all of these applicable rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. We also expect that these applicable rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. We May Be Required To Raise Additional Financing By Issuing New Securities With Terms Or Rights Superior To Those Of Our Shares Of Common Stock, Which Could Adversely Affect The Market Price Of Our Shares Of Common Stock. We may require additional financing to fund future operations, including expansion in current and new markets, programming development and acquisition, capital costs and the costs of any necessary implementation of technological innovations or alternative technologies. We may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, if at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, the percentage ownership of our current stockholders will be reduced, and the holders of the new equity securities may have rights superior to those of the holders of shares of Common Stock, which could adversely affect the market price and the voting power of shares of our Common Stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt securities, the holders of these debt securities would similarly have some rights senior to those of the holders of shares of Common Stock, and the terms of these debt securities could impose restrictions on operations and create a significant interest expense for us. 13 We Do Not Foresee Paying Cash Dividends In The Foreseeable Future. We have not paid cash dividends on our stock and we do not plan to pay cash dividends on our stock in the foreseeable future. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 