Item 1A. Risk FactorsCertain factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, in addition to other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, may also become important factors that adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our Class A common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment.7Table of ContentsRisks Related to Our Business and Industry We may be unable to maintain or establish relationships with travel suppliers and OTAs, which could limit the information we are able to provide to travelers. Our ability to attract users to our services depends in large part on providing a comprehensive set of query results. To do so, we maintain relationships with travel suppliers and OTAs to include their data in our query results. The loss of existing relationships with travel suppliers or OTAs, or an inability to continue to add new ones, may cause our query results to provide incomplete pricing, availability and other information important to travelers using our services. This deficiency could reduce traveler confidence in the query results we provide, making us less popular with travelers. With respect to our flight and fare information, the willingness of airlines to participate in our query results can vary by carrier. Historically, Southwest Airlines has chosen not to include its pricing and availability information in our query results and those of other third parties. If we are unable to continue to display travel data from multiple airline carriers, it would reduce the breadth of our query results and the number of travelers using our services could decline, resulting in a loss of revenues and a decline in our operating results. Recently, there have been a number of airline mergers, including the 2008 merger between Delta Air Lines and Northwest Airlines, the 2010 merger between United Airlines and Continental Airlines, the 2011 merger of AirTran Airlines and Southwest Airlines and the proposed merger of American Airlines and US Airways. If one of our airline travel suppliers merges or consolidates with, or is acquired by, another company with which we do not have a relationship, we may lose that airline as a participant in our query results or as an advertiser. We could also lose an airline’s participation in the event of an airline bankruptcy. In addition, many of our agreements with travel suppliers and OTAs are short-term agreements that may be terminated on 30 days’ notice. We cannot guarantee that travel suppliers and OTAs will continue to work with us. We may also be unable to negotiate access, pricing or other terms that are consistent or more favorable than our current terms. A failure to retain current terms or obtain more favorable terms with our travel suppliers and OTAs could harm our business and operating results. If travel suppliers or OTAs choose not to advertise with us, or choose to reduce or even eliminate the fees they pay us, our financial performance could be materially adversely affected. Our current financial model depends almost entirely on fees paid by travel suppliers and OTAs for referrals from our query results and advertising placements. Since we do not have long-term contracts with most of the travel suppliers or OTAs who use our services, these travel suppliers or OTAs could choose to modify or discontinue their relationship with us with little to no advance notice to us. These changes may include a cessation in the provision of travel data to us, or a reduction in, or elimination of, our compensation. During the year ended December 31, 2012, our top ten travel suppliers and OTAs accounted for approximately 63% of our total revenues. In particular, for the year ended December 31, 2012, Expedia and its affiliates, including its Hotels.com and Hotwire subsidiaries, accounted for 26% of our total revenues. Also during this period, priceline.com and its affiliates, including Booking.com, rentalcars.com and Agoda, and Orbitz and its affiliates, including its CheapTickets, HotelClub and ebookers subsidiaries, accounted for 10% and 7%, respectively of our total revenues. If our relationship with any of our top travel suppliers or OTAs were to end or otherwise be materially reduced, our revenues and operating results could experience significant decline.If we do not continue to innovate and provide tools and services that are useful to travelers, we may not remain competitive, and our revenues and operating results could suffer. Our success depends on continued innovation to provide features and services that make our websites and mobile applications useful for travelers. Our competitors are constantly developing innovations in online travel-related services and features. As a result, we must continue to invest significant resources in research and development in order to continually improve the speed, accuracy and comprehensiveness of our services. If we are unable to continue offering innovative products and services, we may be unable to attract additional users or retain our current users, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We depend on third parties to provide our airfare query results, and a loss of one or more of these providers could limit our ability, or make it more difficult for us, to provide travelers with accurate flight information. 8Table of ContentsAirline travel queries accounted for approximately 85% of the queries performed on our websites and mobile applications for the year ended December 31, 2012, and distribution revenues from airline queries represented approximately 22% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012. We anticipate domestic airfare queries will continue to represent a significant portion of our overall queries for the foreseeable future. Thus, a loss of access to airfare query results could have a significant negative effect on the comprehensiveness and/or speed of our query results, and on our revenues and operating results. Moreover, we believe that a significant number of travelers who use our websites and mobile applications for our non-air travel services first come to our site to conduct queries for airfare, and accordingly a loss, disruption or other negative impact on our airfare query results could also result in a significant decline in the use of, and financial performance of, our query services for non-air travel queries. In the event we are not offered access to Google’s enhancements of or replacements to ITA software at competitive prices or at all, our ability to compete and operate our business effectively, and our financial performance, may be materially adversely affected. On April 8, 2011, Google entered into a consent decree agreeing to conditions on Google’s acquisition of ITA, and Google subsequently completed its acquisition of ITA. The consent decree stated Google’s intent to offer an online travel search product and Google has since launched hotel and flight search tools and services that directly compete with the tools and services we offer. Google’s flight search offering includes significantly increased speed on return of search results and, in the future, may include other enhancements or improvements in performance of the ITA software which may not be made available to us. Although the consent decree will provide us with the right to renew our existing ITA agreement on the same terms until October 2016, if ITA or Google limit our access to the ITA software or any improvements to the software, separately develop replacement software to which they claim we are not entitled or increase the price we pay for any improvements or replacement software and we are unable to replace ITA’s software with a comparable technology, we may be unable to operate our business effectively and our financial performance may suffer.Competition from general search engine companies could adversely affect us by reducing traffic to our website and mobile applications and by creating a competitive product that people choose over KAYAK when searching for travel online. Large, established Internet search engines with substantial resources and expertise in developing online commerce and facilitating Internet traffic are creating, and are expected to create further, inroads into online travel, both in the U.S. and internationally. For example, in addition to its acquisition of ITA, Google has launched a travel search offering that displays hotel and airfare information and rates to travelers. Moreover, Microsoft acquired one of our competitors, Farecast.com, in 2008 and relaunched it as Bing Travel, a travel search engine which not only allows users to search for airfare and hotel reservations, but also purports to predict the best time to purchase. These initiatives appear to represent a clear intention by Google and Microsoft to appeal more directly to travel consumers and travel suppliers by providing more specific travel-related search results, which could lead to more travelers using services offered by Google or Bing instead of those offered on our websites and mobile applications. For example, Google has launched the ability for users of its website to search for hotel and airfare pricing and availability, and as Google integrates such offerings with other Google services such as Google maps and weather information, then the number of users that visit our websites and our ability to attract advertising dollars could be negatively impacted. Google or other leading search engines could choose to direct general searches on their respective websites to their own travel search service and/or materially improve search speed through hardware investments, which also could negatively impact the number of users that visit our websites and our ability to attract advertising dollars. If Google or other leading search engines are successful in offering services that directly compete with ours, we could lose traffic to our websites and mobile applications, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be unable to maintain and increase brand awareness and preference, which could limit our ability to maintain our current financial performance or achieve additional growth. We rely heavily on the KAYAK brand. In our international markets we also rely on swoodoo and our other brands. Awareness, perceived quality and perceived differentiated attributes of our brands are important aspects of our efforts to attract and expand the number of travelers who use our websites and mobile applications. Since many of our competitors have more resources than we do, and can spend more advertising their brands and services, we are required to spend considerable money and other resources to preserve and increase our brand awareness. Should the competition for top-of-mind awareness and brand preference increase among online travel services, we may not be able to successfully maintain or enhance the strength of our brand. Even if we are successful in our branding efforts, such efforts may not be cost effective. If we are unable to maintain or enhance traveler and advertiser awareness of our brand cost effectively, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. 9Table of ContentsIn November 2009, we began a broad-reach marketing campaign that included television commercials and signage advertising in major U.S. airports. We do not know if continued marketing investments will result in new or additional travelers visiting our websites or using our mobile applications. If we are unable to recover these additional costs through an increase in the number of travelers using our services, or if we discontinue our broad-reach campaign, we will likely experience a decline in our financial results. We have registered domain names for websites that we use in our business, such as KAYAK.com, KAYAK.co.uk, swoodoo.com and checkfelix.com. If we lose the ability to use a domain name, we would be forced to incur significant expenses to market our services under a new domain name, which could substantially harm our business. In addition, our competitors could attempt to capitalize on our brand recognition by using domain names similar to ours. Domain names similar to ours have been registered in the U.S. and elsewhere, and in some countries the top level domain name “KAYAK” is owned by other parties. We may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring and using domain names that infringe on, are similar to, or otherwise decrease the value of, our brand or our trademarks or service marks. Protecting and enforcing our rights in our domain names and determining the rights of others may require litigation, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention. We may be unable to effectively monetize increases in travel queries performed on mobile applications which could have a negative impact on our results of operations.Queries conducted on mobile applications accounted for 17.6% and 12.4% of our total queries for the year ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. We estimate that revenues from mobile applications were 3.8% and 1.7% of total revenues during the year ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Since on average we generate less revenue for queries performed on mobile applications compared to queries performed on our websites, if we are unable to effectively monetize queries performed on mobile applications, our revenues could grow at a slower rate than if these queries were conducted on our websites. Furthermore, if users switch from conducting searches on our websites and instead perform those queries on our mobile applications, our overall revenue could decline. Changes in internet browser functionality could result in a decrease in our overall revenues.We generate revenues, in part, by allowing users to compare query results from multiple websites. These multiple website results appear on the user's computer in the form of additional "pop-under" windows. Recently, changes in browser functionality may either prevent or limit the ability for users to view these "pop-under" windows. As a result, our revenue could decline since we may no longer be able to offer this feature to our users. Competition from other travel companies could result in a decrease in the amount and types of travel information we display, a loss of travelers using our products and services and a decrease in our financial performance. We operate in the highly competitive online travel category. Many of our current and potential competitors, including general search engines, OTAs, travel supplier websites and other travel websites, have existed longer and have larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing, personnel, technical and other resources than KAYAK. Some of these competitors may be able to secure services on more favorable terms. In addition, many of these competitors may be able to devote significantly greater resources to: •marketing and promotional campaigns;•attracting and retaining key employees;•securing participation of travel suppliers and access to travel information, including proprietary or exclusive content;•website and systems development; and•enhancing the speed at which their services return user search results.In addition, consolidation of travel suppliers and OTAs could limit the comprehensiveness of our query results and the need for our services and could result in advertisers terminating their relationships with us. Increased competition could result in reduced operating margins and loss of market share. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in general search engine algorithms and dynamics or termination of traffic-generating arrangements could result in a decrease in the number of people directed to our websites. 10Table of ContentsWe use Internet search engines, principally through the purchase of travel-related keywords, to generate traffic to our websites. The purchase of travel-related keywords consists of anticipating what words and terms consumers will use to search for travel on general search engines and then bidding on those words and terms in the applicable search engine’s auction system. We bid against other advertisers for preferred placement on the applicable general search engine’s results page. Approximately 11% of our user queries during the year ended December 31, 2012, resulted from searches initially entered on general search engine websites. Search engines, such as Google, frequently update and change the logic which determines the placement and ordering of results of a user’s search, which may reduce the effectiveness of the keywords we have purchased. If a major search engine, such as Google, changes its algorithms in a manner that negatively affects the search engine ranking of our websites, or changes its pricing, operating or competitive dynamics to our disadvantage, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We also rely to a certain extent on advertisements that we place on websites other than general search engines. Approximately 7% of our user queries during the year ended December 31, 2012 resulted from these traffic-generating arrangements. A loss of one or more of these traffic-generating arrangements as an advertising channel could result in fewer people using our services.We have limited international experience and may be limited in our ability to expand into international markets, which could result in significant costs to us and a limitation on our ability to achieve future financial growth. We operate websites in 18 countries, and we generated approximately 21% of our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012 from our international operations. With the exception of our managing director for Europe and our Chief Commercial Officer, our senior management team is located in the U.S. and has limited international experience. We believe that international expansion will be important to our future growth, and therefore we currently expect that our international operations will increase. As our international operations expand, we will face increasing risks resulting from operations in multiple countries, including: •differences and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and exposure to local economic conditions;•limits on our ability to enforce our intellectual property rights;•restrictions on the repatriation of non-U.S. investments and earnings back to the U.S., including withholding taxes imposed by certain foreign jurisdictions;•requirements to comply with a number of U.S. and international regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act;•uncertainty over our ability to legally enforce our contractual rights; and•currency exchange rate fluctuations.To the extent we are not able to effectively mitigate or eliminate these risks, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Furthermore, any failure by us to adopt appropriate compliance procedures to ensure that our employees and agents comply with applicable laws and regulations in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial penalties or restrictions on our ability to conduct business in certain foreign jurisdictions. Some of our plans for expansion include operating in international markets where we have limited operating experience. These markets may have different competitive conditions, traveler preferences and discretionary spending patterns than the U.S. travel market. As a result, our international operations may be less successful than our U.S. operations. Travelers in other countries may not be familiar with our brands, and we may need to build brand awareness in such countries through greater investments in advertising and promotional activity than we originally planned. In addition, we may find it difficult to effectively hire, manage, motivate and retain qualified employees who share our corporate culture. We may also have difficulty entering into new agreements with foreign travel suppliers and OTAs on economically favorable terms. Our failure to manage growth effectively could harm our ability to attract and retain key personnel and adversely impact our operating results. Our culture is important to us. We believe it has been a major contributor to our success. As we grow, however, we may have difficulty maintaining our culture or adapting it sufficiently to meet the needs of our operations. Failure to maintain our culture could negatively impact our operations and business results. We have rapidly and significantly expanded our operations and anticipate expanding further to pursue our growth strategy. Our workforce worldwide has grown from fewer than 35 employees in 2006 to 205 employees and approximately 71 contractors as of March 22, 2013. Such expansion increases the complexity of our business and places a significant strain on our management, operations, technical performance, financial resources and internal control over financial reporting functions. 11Table of ContentsThere can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our expansion effectively. Our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support and effectively manage our future operations, especially as we employ personnel in multiple geographic locations. We may not be able to hire, train, retain, motivate and manage required personnel, which may limit our growth, damage our reputation and negatively affect our financial performance and harm our business.We may not be able to expand our business model beyond providing travelers with travel query results and our attempts to do so could result in significant additional costs to us without a corresponding increase in our revenues. We plan to expand our business model beyond helping travelers search for travel by offering additional services and tools, including assisted booking services through mobile applications and our websites. This growth strategy depends on various factors, including the willingness of travel suppliers and OTAs to participate in our assisted booking services, as well as travelers’ use of these other new services and a willingness to trust us with their personal information. These newly launched services may not succeed, and, even if we are successful, our revenues may not increase. These new services could also increase our operating costs and result in costs that we have not incurred in the past, including customer service. We are dependent on the leisure travel industry and declines in leisure travel or discretionary spending generally could reduce the demand for our services. Our financial prospects are significantly dependent upon leisure travelers using our services. Leisure travel, including leisure airline tickets, hotel room reservations and rental car reservations, is dependent on personal discretionary spending levels. Leisure travel services tend to decline, along with the advertising dollars spent by travel suppliers, during general economic downturns and recessions. Events beyond our control also may adversely affect the leisure travel industry, with a corresponding negative impact on our business and results of operations. Natural disasters, including hurricanes, tsunamis, earthquakes or volcanic eruptions, as well as other natural phenomena, such as outbreaks of H1N1 influenza (swine flu), avian flu and other pandemics and epidemics, have disrupted normal leisure travel patterns and levels. The leisure travel industry is also sensitive to other events beyond our control, such as work stoppages or labor unrest at any of the major airlines, political instability, regional hostilities, increases in fuel prices, imposition of taxes or surcharges by regulatory authorities, travel related accidents and terrorist attacks, any of which could have an impact on our business and results of operations. We rely on the performance of highly skilled personnel, including senior management and our technology professionals, and if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel or hire, retain and motivate qualified personnel, our business would be harmed. We believe our success has depended, and continues to depend, on the efforts and talents of our senior management and our highly skilled team members, including our software engineers. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain highly qualified and skilled employees. The loss of any of our senior management or key employees could materially adversely affect our ability to build on the efforts they have undertaken and to execute our business plan, and we may not be able to find adequate replacements. In particular, the contributions of certain key senior management in the U.S. are critical to our overall success. We cannot ensure that we will be able to retain the services of any members of our senior management or other key employees. We do not maintain any key person life insurance policies. Competition for well-qualified employees in all aspects of our business, including software engineers and other technology professionals, is intense both in the U.S. and abroad. Our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate existing employees. Our software engineers and technology professionals are key to designing code and algorithms necessary to our business. If we do not succeed in attracting well-qualified employees or retaining and motivating existing employees, our business would be adversely affected.We process, store and use personal data which exposes us to risks of internal and external security breaches and could give rise to liabilities as a result of governmental regulation and differing personal privacy rights. We may acquire personal or confidential information from travelers who use our websites and mobile applications. Substantial or ongoing security breaches to our system, whether resulting from internal or external sources, could significantly harm our business. It is possible that advances in computer circumvention capabilities, new discoveries or other developments, including our own acts or omissions, could result in a compromise or breach of personal and confidential traveler information. We cannot guarantee that our existing security measures will prevent security breaches or attacks. A party, whether internal or external, that is able to circumvent our security systems could steal traveler information or proprietary information 12Table of Contentsor cause significant interruptions in our operations. In the past we have experienced “denial-of-service” type attacks on our system that have made portions of our website unavailable for periods of time. We may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches, and reductions in website availability could cause a loss of substantial business volume during the occurrence of any such incident. The risk of such security breaches is likely to increase as we expand the number of places where we operate and as the tools and techniques used in these types of attacks become more advanced. Security breaches could result in negative publicity, damage our reputation, expose us to risk of loss or litigation and possible liability and subject us to regulatory penalties and sanctions. Security breaches could also cause travelers and potential users to lose confidence in our security, which would have a negative effect on the value of our brand. Our insurance policies carry low coverage limits and would likely not be adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by security breaches. Companies that we have acquired, and that we may acquire in the future, may employ security and networking standards at levels we find unsatisfactory. The process of enhancing infrastructure to improve security and network standards may be time consuming and expensive and may require resources and expertise that are difficult to obtain. Acquisitions could also increase the number of potential vulnerabilities and could cause delays in detection of an attack, or the timelines of recovery from an attack. Failure to adequately protect against attacks or intrusions could expose us to security breaches of, among other things, personal user data and credit card information that would have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We also face risks associated with security breaches affecting third parties conducting business over the Internet. People generally are concerned with security and privacy on the Internet, and any publicized security problems could inhibit the growth of our business. Additionally, security breaches at third parties upon which we rely, such as travel suppliers, could result in negative publicity, damage our reputation, expose us to risk of loss or litigation and possible liability and subject us to regulatory penalties and sanctions. We currently provide users with the option to complete certain hotel bookings directly through our websites and mobile applications. We also currently facilitate the purchase of airlines tickets through our mobile applications and assist users in completing transactions directly with travel suppliers. In connection with facilitating these transactions, we receive and store certain personally identifiable information, including credit card information. This information is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world, including the Commission of the European Union through its Data Protection Directive and variations of that directive in the member states of the European Union. Government regulation is typically intended to protect the privacy of personal information that is collected, processed and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction. We could be adversely affected if legislation or regulations are expanded to require changes in our business practices or if governing jurisdictions interpret or implement their legislation or regulations in ways that negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Litigation could distract management, increase our expenses or subject us to material money damages and other remedies. We are involved in various legal proceedings, including, but not limited to, actions relating to breach of contract and intellectual property infringement that involve claims for substantial amounts of money or for other relief or that might necessitate changes to our business or operations. Regardless of whether any claims against us are valid, or whether we are ultimately held liable or subject to payment of damages, claims may be expensive to defend and may divert management’s time away from our operations. If any legal proceedings were to result in an unfavorable outcome, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Any adverse publicity resulting from actual or potential litigation may also materially and adversely affect our reputation, which in turn could adversely affect our results. Companies in the Internet, technology and media industries are frequently subject to allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. We are currently subject to several patent infringement claims and may be subject to future claims relating to intellectual property rights. As we grow our business and expand our operations we may be subject to intellectual property claims by third parties. We plan to vigorously defend our intellectual property rights and our freedom to operate our business; however, regardless of the merits of the claims, intellectual property claims are often time-consuming and extremely expensive to litigate or settle, and are likely to continue to divert managerial attention and resources from our business objectives. Successful infringement claims against us could result in significant monetary liability or prevent us from operating our business, or portions of our business. Resolution of claims may require us to obtain licenses to use intellectual property rights belonging to third parties, which may be expensive to procure, or we may be required to cease using intellectual property altogether. Many of our agreements with travel suppliers, OTAs and other partners require us to indemnify these entities against third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which would increase our defense costs and may require that we pay damages if there were an adverse ruling in any such claims. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.13Table of Contents Acquisitions and investments could result in operating difficulties, dilution and other harmful consequences. We have acquired a number of businesses in the past, including our acquisitions of SideStep, Inc., or SideStep, swoodoo AG, or swoodoo, and JaBo Software. We expect to continue to evaluate and enter into discussions regarding a wide array of potential strategic transactions. Any transactions that we enter into could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. The process of integrating an acquired company, business or technology may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. The areas where we face risks include: •diversion of management time and focus from operating our business to acquisition integration challenges;•implementation or remediation of controls, procedures and policies at the acquired company;•coordination of product, engineering and sales and marketing functions;•retention of employees from the businesses we acquire;•liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition;•litigation or other claims in connection with the acquired company; and•in the case of foreign acquisitions, the need to integrate operations across different cultures and languages and to address the particular economic, currency, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries.Our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with our past or future acquisitions and investments could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions or investments, incur unanticipated liabilities and harm our business generally.The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources and distract our management, which could make it difficult to manage our business, particularly after we are no longer an “emerging growth company”. Following the completion of our initial public offering, we are now required to comply with various regulatory and reporting requirements, including those required by the SEC. Complying with these reporting and other regulatory requirements will be time-consuming and will result in increased costs to us and could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. As a public company, we are now subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, and requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, or SOX. These requirements may place a strain on our systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. SOX requires that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. To maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, we will need to commit significant resources, hire additional staff and provide additional management oversight. We will be implementing additional procedures and processes for the purpose of addressing the standards and requirements applicable to public companies. Sustaining our growth also will require us to commit additional management, operational and financial resources to identify new professionals to join our firm and to maintain appropriate operational and financial systems to adequately support expansion. These activities may divert management’s attention from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As an “emerging growth company” under the JOBS Act, we may take advantage of certain temporary exemptions from various reporting requirements including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of SOX (and rules and regulations of the SEC thereunder, which we refer to as Section 404) and reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements. In addition, we have elected under the JOBS Act to delay adoption of new or revised accounting pronouncements applicable to public companies until such pronouncements are made applicable to private companies. When these exemptions cease to apply, we expect to incur additional expenses and devote increased management effort toward ensuring compliance with them. We will remain an “emerging growth company” for up to five years, although we may cease to be an emerging growth company earlier under certain circumstances. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — JOBS Act” for additional information on when we may cease to be an emerging growth company. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur as a result of becoming a public company or the timing of such costs. Fluctuations in our financial results make quarterly comparisons and financial forecasting difficult, which could make it difficult to manage our business. 14Table of ContentsOur revenues and operating results have varied significantly from quarter to quarter because our business experiences seasonal fluctuations, which reflect seasonal trends for the travel products distributed through and advertised on our platform. Traditional leisure travel bookings in the U.S. and Europe are generally higher in the second and third calendar quarters of the year as travelers take spring and summer vacations. In the fourth quarter of the calendar year, demand for travel services in the U.S. and Europe generally declines. We have seen and expect to continue to see, that the most significant portion of our revenues will be earned in the second and third quarters. The current state of the global economic environment, combined with the seasonal nature of our business and our relatively limited operating history, makes forecasting future operating results difficult. Because our business is changing and evolving, our historical operating results may not be useful to you in predicting our future operating results. Advertising spending has historically been cyclical in nature, reflecting overall economic conditions as well as individual travel patterns. Our rapid growth has tended to mask the cyclicality and seasonality of our business. As our growth rate slows, the cyclicality and seasonality in our business will become more pronounced and cause our operating results to fluctuate. Any significant disruption in service on our websites or in our computer systems, which are currently hosted primarily by third-party providers, could damage our reputation and result in a loss of users, which would harm our business and operating results. Our brands, reputation and ability to attract and retain travelers to use our websites and mobile applications depend upon the reliable performance of our network infrastructure and content delivery processes. We have experienced interruptions in these systems in the past, including server failures that temporarily slowed down the performance of our websites and mobile applications, and we may experience interruptions in the future. Interruptions in these systems, whether due to system failures, computer viruses or physical or electronic break-ins, could affect the security or availability of our services on our websites and mobile applications and prevent or inhibit the ability of travelers to access our services. Problems with the reliability or security of our systems could harm our reputation, and damage to our reputation and the cost of remedying these problems could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Substantially all of the communications, network and computer hardware used to operate our website are located at facilities in Somerville, Massachusetts and Zurich, Switzerland, with respect to our swoodoo and checkfelix operations, Freiburg, Germany. We do not own or control the operation of these facilities. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attacks, acts of war, electronic and physical break-ins, computer viruses, earthquakes and similar events. The occurrence of any of the foregoing events could result in damage to our systems and hardware or could cause them to fail completely, and our insurance may not cover such events or may be insufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. Our systems are not completely redundant, so a failure of our system at one site could result in reduced functionality for our travelers, and a total failure of our systems at both U.S. sites could cause our websites or mobile applications to be inaccessible by our travelers. Problems faced by our third-party web hosting providers with the telecommunications network providers with which they contract or with the systems by which they allocate capacity among their customers, including us, could adversely affect the experience of our travelers. Our third-party web hosting providers could decide to close their facilities without adequate notice. Any financial difficulties, such as bankruptcy reorganization, faced by our third-party web hosting providers or any of the service providers with whom they contract may have negative effects on our business, the nature and extent of which are difficult to predict. If our third-party web hosting providers are unable to keep up with our growing needs for capacity, this could have an adverse effect on our business. Any errors, defects, disruptions or other performance problems with our services could harm our reputation and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Governmental regulation and associated legal uncertainties could limit our ability to expand our product offerings or enter into new markets and could require us to expend significant resources, including the attention of senior management, to review and comply with such regulations. Many of the services we offer are regulated by federal and state governments, and our ability to provide these services is and will continue to be affected by government regulations. The implementation of unfavorable regulations or unfavorable interpretations of existing regulations by courts or regulatory bodies could require us to incur significant compliance costs, cause the development of the affected markets to become impractical and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In particular, the DOT regulates the advertising and sale of air transportation. The DOT actively enforces its regulations and recently made significant changes to the regulations and standards that apply to air carriers and ticket agents. While we are neither an air carrier nor a ticket agent, to the extent we expand our business model in the air transportation area to facilitate bookings, we could become subject to DOT oversight, which would require us to incur significant compliance costs and may require us to change our business practices with respect to the display of airfare and airfare advertising. 15Table of ContentsIn addition, our business strategy involves expansion into regions around the world, many of which have different legislation, regulatory environments, tax laws and levels of political stability. Compliance with foreign legal, regulatory or tax requirements will place demands on our time and resources, and we may nonetheless experience unforeseen and potentially adverse legal, regulatory or tax consequences. We assist with the processing of customer credit card transactions which results in us receiving and storing personally identifiable information. This information is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world. This legislation and regulation is generally intended to protect the privacy and security of personal information, including credit card information, that is collected, processed and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction. We could be adversely affected if government regulations require us to significantly change our business practices with respect to this type of information. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates affect financial results in U.S. dollar terms and could negatively impact our financial results. International operations accounted for 21% of our revenues in 2012. Revenues generated and expenses incurred by our international subsidiaries are often denominated in local currencies. As a result, our consolidated U.S. dollar financial statements are subject to fluctuations due to changes in exchange rates as the financial results of our international subsidiaries are translated from local currencies into U.S. dollars. Our financial results are subject to changes in exchange rates that impact the settlement of transactions in non local currencies. Risks Relating to the merger with priceline.com IncorporatedThe proposed transaction with priceline.com presents numerous risks to our operations and failure to complete the transaction could have a material adverse effect on our business, price of our common stock and financial results. Our proposed transaction with priceline.com is subject to numerous conditions including regulatory clearances. Our efforts to meet these closing conditions could require substantial time and resources by our management team, which could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that may have been beneficial to us as an independent company. In addition, if the acquisition is not completed, we may be subject to a termination fee of $52.7 million and could experience negative reactions from the financial markets and from our customers and employees. We also could be subject to litigation related to any failure to complete the transaction or to enforcement proceedings commenced against us to perform our respective obligations under the merger agreement. If the transaction is not completed, we cannot assure stockholders that these risks will not materialize and will not materially affect our business, financial results and stock price.The market price of priceline.com common stock may be affected by factors different from those affecting the market price for our Class A common stock. Our business differs from that of priceline.com and, accordingly, the results of operations for the combined company may be affected by factors different from those currently affecting our results of operations. Additionally, following completion of the transaction our customers may choose to no longer advertise with us which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. As a result, the market price for priceline.com common stock may be impacted differently in the future and could vary significantly from the market price of our Class A common stock. Furthermore, since the consideration paid by priceline.com in the transaction will in part be comprised of priceline.com common stock, the number of shares of priceline.com common stock issued to our stockholders in the transaction is subject to change based on the value of priceline.com’s common stock. We will be subject to business uncertainties and certain operating restrictions until consummation of the merger. Uncertainty about the effect of the merger on employees and customers may have an adverse effect on us and consequently on the combined company following the merger. These uncertainties could disrupt our business and cause customers, suppliers, partners and others that deal with us to defer entering into contracts with us or making other decisions concerning us or seek to change or cancel existing business relationships with us. The uncertainty and difficulty of integration could also cause key employees to lose motivation or to leave their employment. In addition, the Merger Agreement restricts us from making certain acquisitions and taking other specified actions until the merger occurs without the consent of priceline.com. These restrictions may prevent us from pursuing attractive business opportunities that may arise prior to the completion of the merger. We have and may continue to become subject to lawsuits and may be subject to adverse judgments related to the merger that may prevent the merger from being completed or from being completed within the expected timeframe. 16Table of ContentsRisks Related to Our Intellectual Property We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm the value of our brands and adversely affect our business. We regard our intellectual property as critical to our success, and we rely on trademark, copyright and patent law, trade secret protection and confidentiality and/or license agreements to protect our proprietary rights. If we are not successful in protecting our intellectual property, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. While we believe that our issued patents and pending patent applications help to protect our business, there can be no assurance that our operations do not, or will not, infringe valid, enforceable third-party patents of third parties or that competitors will not devise new methods of competing with us that are not covered by our patents or patent applications. There can also be no assurance that our patent applications will be approved, that any patents issued will adequately protect our intellectual property, or that such patents will not be challenged by third parties or found to be invalid or unenforceable or that our patents will be effective in preventing third parties from utilizing a copycat business model to offer the same service in one or more categories. Moreover, we rely on intellectual property and technology developed or licensed by third parties, and we may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses and technologies from these third parties at all or on reasonable terms. Effective trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our services are provided. The laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. and, therefore, in certain jurisdictions, we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third party copying or use, which could adversely affect our competitive position. We have licensed in the past, and expect to license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to third parties. These licensees may take actions that might diminish the value of our proprietary rights or harm our reputation, even if we have agreements prohibiting such activity. Also to the extent third parties are obligated to indemnify us for breaches of our intellectual property rights, these third parties may be unable to meet these obligations. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Claims by third parties that we infringe their intellectual property rights could result in significant costs and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We are currently subject to various patent infringement claims. These claims allege, among other things, that our website technology infringes upon owned patent technology. If we are not successful in defending ourselves against these claims, we may be required to pay money damages, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, the costs associated with the loss of these claims could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We may be subject to future claims relating to our intellectual property rights. As we grow our business and expand our operations we expect that we will continue to be subject to intellectual property claims. Resolving intellectual property claims may require us to obtain licenses to use intellectual property rights belonging to third parties, which may be expensive to procure, or we may be required to cease using intellectual property altogether. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. A substantial amount of our processes and technologies is protected by trade secret laws. In order to protect these technologies and processes, we rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our employees, licensees, independent contractors and other advisors. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information, including trade secrets, and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such cases we could not assert any trade secret rights against such parties. To the extent that our employees, contractors or other third parties with which we do business use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. Laws regarding trade secret rights in certain markets in which we operate may afford little or no protection to our trade secrets. The loss of trade secret protection could make it easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying functionality. In addition, any changes in, or unexpected interpretations of, the trade secret and other intellectual property laws in any country in which we operate may compromise our ability to enforce our trade secret and intellectual property rights. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our business, revenue, reputation and competitive position.17Table of ContentsOur use of “open source” software could adversely affect our ability to offer our services and subject us to possible litigation. We use open source software in connection with our development. From time to time, companies that use open source software have faced claims challenging the use of open source software and/or compliance with open source license terms. We could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software, or claiming noncompliance with open source licensing terms. Some open source licenses require users who distribute software containing open source to make available all or part of such software, which in some circumstances could include valuable proprietary code of the user. While we monitor the use of open source software and try to ensure that none is used in a manner that would require us to disclose our proprietary source code or that would otherwise breach the terms of an open source agreement, such use could inadvertently occur, in part because open source license terms are often ambiguous. Any requirement to disclose our proprietary source code or pay damages for breach of contract could be harmful to our business, results of operations or financial condition, and could help our competitors develop products and services that are similar to or better than ours. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Class A Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance. The market price for our Class A common stock is likely to be volatile, in part because our shares have a limited history of being publicly traded. In addition, the market price of our Class A common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, most of which we cannot control, including failure to close our merger with priceline.com. The stock markets, including the NASDAQ Global Select Market, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many Internet companies. In the past, stockholders have instituted securities class action litigation following periods of market volatility. If we were involved in securities litigation, we could incur substantial costs and our resources and the attention of management could be diverted from our business. Future sales of our Class A common stock, or the perception in the public markets that these sales may occur, may depress our stock price. Sales of substantial amounts of our Class A common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the price of our Class A common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional shares. As of March 22, 2013, we had approximately 8,802,371 shares of Class A common stock outstanding, and approximately 30,170,847 shares of Class B common stock outstanding, all of which are convertible into shares of Class A common stock. Of these shares, approximately 29,026,104 were held by our affiliates and thus maybe subject to our "black-out" policies.These policies restrict the ability of our employees, directors and certain affiliates from trading in our Class A and Class B common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of our Class A and Class B common stock during certain periods. As a result these holders are prevented from trading in any KAYAK securities (i) during such time as the transaction with priceline.com is pending and (ii) during certain defined time periods before and following each quarter period end. In the event we do not close our transaction with priceline.com, there could be substantial sales of our securities during open trading times. These sales in the public market, or the threat of a substantial sale, could cause the market price of our Class A common stock to decrease significantly. In the future, we may also issue our securities in connection with investments or acquisitions. The amount of shares of our Class A common stock issued in connection with an investment or acquisition could constitute a material portion of our then-outstanding shares of our Class A common stock. Any issuance of additional securities in connection with investments or acquisitions may result in additional dilution to you. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our Class A common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If securities or industry analyst coverage results in downgrades of our Class A common stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us or fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our Class A common stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. 18Table of ContentsOur internal controls over financial reporting may not be effective and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to certify as to their effectiveness, which could have a significant and adverse effect on our business and reputation. We are not currently required to comply with SEC rules that implement Section 404 of SOX, and are therefore not required to make a formal assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting for that purpose. However, at such time as we cease to be an “emerging growth company”, as more fully described in these Risk Factors, we shall be required to comply with Section 404. At such time, we may identify material weaknesses that we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the applicable deadline imposed upon us for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. In addition, if we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. We cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and any remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations. If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue an adverse opinion due to ineffective internal controls over financial reporting and we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC. As a result, there could be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. In addition, we may be required to incur costs in improving our internal control system and the hiring of additional personnel. Any such action could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows.We are an “emerging growth company” and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the JOBS Act, and we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies” including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 and reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements. In addition, we have elected under the JOBS Act to delay adoption of new or revised accounting pronouncements applicable to public companies until such pronouncements are made applicable to private companies. As a result, our financial statements may not be comparable to the financial statements of issuers who are required to comply with the effective dates for new or revised accounting standards that are applicable to public companies. We cannot predict if investors will find our Class A common stock less attractive if we rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our Class A common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our Class A common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. Our management and other affiliates have significant control of our common stock and could control our actions in a manner that conflicts with the interests of other stockholders. Our Class B common stock has ten votes per share and our Class A common stock has one vote per share. As of March 22, 2013 our officers and directors and their affiliated entities together beneficially owned approximately 74.5% of our Class A and Class B common stock, representing approximately 84.1% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock, assuming the exercise of options, warrants and other common stock equivalents which are currently exercisable, and exercisable within 60 days, and held by these stockholders. In addition, because of this dual class structure, our executive officers, directors and their affiliated entities will continue to be able to control all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval even if they come to own less than 50% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, will be able to exercise considerable influence over matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors, and may not always act in the best interests of other stockholders. Such a concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. We do not expect to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. The continued operation and growth of our business will require substantial cash. Accordingly, we do not anticipate that we will pay any cash dividends on shares of our Class A common stock for the foreseeable future. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon our results of operations, financial condition, contractual restrictions relating to indebtedness we may incur, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors our board of directors deems relevant. Antitakeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law might discourage or delay acquisition attempts for us that you might consider favorable. 19Table of ContentsOur amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of us more difficult without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions, among other things: •provide for dual class stock structure with our Class B Common stock having ten votes per share and our Class A Common stock having one vote per share;•authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and the shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval, and which may include supermajority voting, special approval, dividend or other rights or preferences superior to the rights of the holders of common stock;•prohibit stockholder action by written consent, which requires all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders;•provide that only the chairperson of our board of directors, chief executive officer or a majority of the board of directors may call a special meeting of stockholders;•provide that our board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our amended and restated by-laws;•provide that vacancies on our board of directors may be filled only by a majority of directors then in office, even though less than a quorum; and•establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings.These antitakeover provisions and other provisions under Delaware law may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions, could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change-in-control, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions you desire. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.