ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks set forth below may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition to the risks set forth below, and the factors affecting specific business operations identified with the description of these operations elsewhere in this report, there may also be risks of which we are currently aware, or that we currently regard as immaterial based on the information available to us that later prove to be material. Risks Related to Our Business We depend upon third parties to manufacture our products and to supply the components necessary to manufacture our products. We do not manufacture the physical devices that we design which form part of our system solutions; rather, we arrange for a limited number of third parties to manufacture these devices for us. Similarly, components such as application-specific integrated circuits, or ASICs, payment processors, wireless modules, modems and printer mechanisms that are necessary to manufacture and assemble our devices are sourced either directly by us or on our behalf by our contract manufacturers from a variety of component suppliers. We generally do not have long-term agreements with our manufacturers or component suppliers. If our suppliers become unwilling or unable to provide us with adequate supplies of parts or products when we need them, or if they increase their prices, we might not be able to find alternative sources in a timely manner and could be faced with a critical shortage. This could harm our relationships with our customers and cause our revenues to decline. Even if we are able to secure alternative sources in a timely manner, our costs could increase. In the year ended October 31, 2005, over half of our component spending was for components we sourced from a single supplier or a small number of suppliers. Periodically, constraints in the supply of certain components cause short-term production disruptions or adversely affect our operating results, either because we seek to fill customer orders with less than normal lead times or because of supply/demand imbalances in the component marketplace. In 2004, certain Synchronous Random Access Memory, or SRAM, components were in short supply in the marketplace, and our requirements exceeded the available supply from our vendor. To cover this shortage, we procured these components in the spot market at prices in excess of our historical purchase price, which had a negative impact on our gross profit for the year ended October 31, 2004 of approximately $2.0 million. We depend on a limited number of customers, including distributors and resellers, for sales of a large percentage of our System Solutions. If we do not effectively manage our relationships with them, our net revenues and operating results will suffer. We sell a significant portion of our solutions through third parties such as independent distributors, independent sales organizations, or ISOs, value-added resellers and payment processors. We depend on their active marketing and sales efforts. These third parties also provide after-sales support and related services to end user customers. When we introduce new applications and solutions, they also provide critical support for developing and porting the custom software applications to run on our various 16 electronic payment systems and, internationally, in obtaining requisite certifications in the markets in which they are active. Accordingly, the pace at which we are able to introduce new solutions in markets in which these parties are active depends on the resources they dedicate to these tasks. Moreover, our arrangements with these third parties typically do not prevent them from selling products of other companies, including our competitors, and they may elect to market our competitors’ products and services in preference to our system solutions. If one or more of our major resellers terminates or otherwise adversely changes its relationship with us, we may be unsuccessful in replacing it. The loss of one of our major resellers could impair our ability to sell our solutions and result in lower revenues and income. It could also be time consuming and expensive to replicate, either directly or through other resellers, the certifications and the custom applications owned by these third parties. A significant percentage of our net revenues is attributable to a limited number of customers, including distributors and ISOs. In the year ended October 31, 2005, our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 33.1% of our net revenues and sales to First Data Corporation and its affiliates represented 12.0% of our net revenues in that period. Our sales of system solutions to First Data and its affiliates include sales to its TASQ Technology division, which distributes payment devices to ISOs and financial institutions such as Wells Fargo & Company and Chase Merchant Services. If any of our large customers significantly reduces or delays purchases from us or if we are required to sell products to them at reduced prices or on other terms less favorable to us, our revenues and income could be materially adversely affected. A significant portion of our net revenues is generated outside of the United States and we intend to continue to expand our operations internationally. Our results of operations could suffer if we are unable to manage our international expansion and operations effectively. During the year ended October 31, 2005, 42.3% of our net revenues was generated outside of the United States. Part of our strategy is to expand our penetration in existing foreign markets and to enter new foreign markets. Our ability to penetrate some international markets may be limited due to different technical standards, protocols or product requirements. Expansion of our International business will require significant management attention and financial resources. Our International net revenues will depend on our continued success in the following areas: · securing commercial relationships to help establish our presence in international markets; · hiring and training personnel capable of marketing, installing and integrating our solutions, supporting customers and managing operations in foreign countries; · localizing our solutions to target the specific needs and preferences of foreign customers, which may differ from our traditional customer base in the United States; · building our brand name and awareness of our services among foreign customers; and · implementing new systems, procedures and controls to monitor our operations in new markets. In addition, we are subject to risks associated with operating in foreign countries, including: · multiple, changing and often inconsistent enforcement of laws and regulations; · satisfying local regulatory or industry imposed security or other certification requirements; · competition from existing market participants that may have a longer history in and greater familiarity with the foreign markets we enter; · tariffs and trade barriers; · laws and business practices that favor local competitors; 17 · fluctuations in currency exchange rates; · extended payment terms and the ability to collect account receivables; · imposition of limitations on conversion of foreign currencies into U.S. dollars or remittance of dividends and other payments by foreign subsidiaries; and · changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions. If we fail to address the challenges and risks associated with international expansion, we may encounter difficulties implementing our strategy, which could impede our growth or harm our operating results. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly as a result of factors outside of our control, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We expect our revenues and operating results to vary from quarter to quarter. As a consequence, our operating results in any single quarter may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Factors that may affect our operating results include: · the type, timing and size of orders and shipments; · demand for and acceptance of our new product offerings; · delays in the implementation and delivery of our products and services, which may impact the timing of our recognition of revenue; · variations in product mix and cost during any period; · development of new relationships and maintenance and enhancement of existing relationships with customers and strategic partners; · component supplies, manufacturing or distribution difficulties; · deferral of customer contracts in anticipation of product or service enhancements; · timing of commencement, implementation or completion of major implementations projects; · the relative mix of North America and International net revenues; · fluctuations in currency exchange rates; · the fixed nature of many of our expenses; and · industry and economic conditions, including competitive pressures and inventory obsolescence. In particular, differences in relative growth rates between our businesses in North America and internationally may have a significant effect on our operating results, particularly our reported gross profit percentage, in any individual quarter, with International sales carrying lower margins. In addition, we have in the past and may continue to experience periodic variations in sales to our key vertical and international markets. These periodic variations occur throughout the year and may lead to fluctuations in our quarterly operating results depending on the impact of any given market during that quarter and could lead to volatility in our stock price. 18 Our North American and International operations are not equally profitable, which may promote volatility in our earnings and may adversely impact future growth in our earnings. Our International sales tend to carry lower prices and therefore have lower gross margins than our sales in North America. As a result, if we successfully expand our International sales, any improvement in our results of operations will likely not be as favorable as an expansion of similar magnitude in the United States and Canada. In addition, it is impossible to predict for any future period our proportion of revenues that will result from International sales versus sales in North America. Variations in this proportion from period to period may lead to volatility in our results of operations which, in turn, may depress the trading price of our common stock. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations. A substantial part of our business consists of sales made to customers outside the United States. A portion of the net revenues we receive from such sales is denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Additionally, portions of our cost of net revenues and our other operating expenses are incurred by our International operations and denominated in local currencies. While fluctuations in the value of these net revenues, costs and expenses as measured in U.S. dollars have not materially affected our results of operations historically, we cannot assure you that adverse currency exchange rate fluctuations will not have a material impact in the future. In addition, our balance sheet reflects non-U.S. dollar denominated assets and liabilities, primarily inter-company balances, which can be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We have entered into foreign currency forward contracts and other arrangements intended to hedge our exposure to adverse fluctuations in exchange rates. Nevertheless, these hedging arrangements may not always be effective, particularly in the event of imprecise forecasts of non-U.S. denominated assets and liabilities. Accordingly, if there is an adverse movement in exchange rates, we might suffer significant losses. For instance, in the years ended October 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, we incurred foreign currency contract losses of $0.8 million and $2.2 million net of foreign currency transaction gains primarily as a result of our hedging activities. Security is vital to our customers and end users and therefore breaches in the security of our solutions could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations. Protection against fraud is of key importance to the purchasers and end users of our solutions. We incorporate security features, such as encryption software and secure hardware, into our solutions to protect against fraud in electronic payment transactions and to ensure the privacy and integrity of consumer data. Our solutions may be vulnerable to breaches in security due to defects in the security mechanisms, the operating system and applications or the hardware platform. Security vulnerabilities could jeopardize the security of information transmitted or stored using our solutions. In general, liability associated with security breaches of a certified electronic payment system belongs to the institution that acquires the financial transaction. However, if the security of our solutions is compromised, our reputation and marketplace acceptance of our solutions will be adversely affected, which would cause our business to suffer, and we may become subject to damage claims. We have not experienced any material security breaches affecting our business. Our solutions may have defects that could result in sales delays, delays in our collection of receivables and claims against us. We offer complex system solutions that are susceptible to undetected hardware and software errors or failures. Solutions may experience failures when first introduced, as new versions are released or at any time during their lifecycle. Any product recall as a result of errors or failures could result in the loss of or delay in market acceptance of our solutions and adversely affect our business and reputation. Any significant returns or warranty claims could result in significant additional costs to us and could adversely 19 affect our results of operations. Our customers may also run third-party software applications on our electronic payment systems. Errors in third-party applications could adversely affect the performance of our solutions. The existence of defects and delays in correcting them could result in negative consequences, including the following: harm to our brand; delays in shipping solutions; loss of market acceptance for our solutions; additional warranty expenses; diversion of resources from product development; and loss of credibility with distributors and customers. Correcting defects can be time consuming and in some circumstances extremely difficult. Software errors may take several months to correct, and hardware defects may take even longer to correct. As an example, beginning in 2001 we experienced a problem in which the ink cartridge in a product sold to a particular customer leaked ink and had to be replaced with a different cartridge. By the time we reached a settlement agreement to resolve this issue with that customer in early 2005, we had incurred aggregate costs and reserves of approximately $10.2 million in respect of cartridge replacement, extended warranty costs and customer rebates. We may accumulate excess or obsolete inventory that could result in unanticipated price reductions and write-downs and adversely affect our financial condition. In formulating our solutions, we have focused our efforts on providing to our customers solutions with higher levels of functionality, which requires us to develop and incorporate cutting edge and evolving technologies. This approach tends to increase the risk of obsolescence for products and components we hold in inventory and may compound the difficulties posed by other factors that affect our inventory levels, including the following: · the need to maintain significant inventory of components that are in limited supply; · buying components in bulk for the best pricing; · responding to the unpredictable demand for products; · cancellation of customer orders; and · responding to customer requests for quick delivery schedules. As a result of these factors, we regularly run the risk of maintaining excess inventory levels. This risk may be enhanced to the extent we increase inventory levels in response to expected customer requirements. The accumulation of excess or obsolete inventory may result in price reductions and inventory write-downs, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. We have incurred an obsolescence cost of $4.3 million in the year ended October 31, 2005, primarily as a result of the customers shifting to our new Vx Solutions, our latest generation of system solutions, employing a 32-bit ARM9 System-on-Chip running our Verix operating system which provides a consistent user interface and secure multi-application platform across several payment systems. Our proprietary technology is difficult to protect and unauthorized use of our proprietary technology by third parties may impair our ability to compete effectively. We may not be able to protect our proprietary technology, which could enable competitors to develop services that compete with our own. We rely on copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality, licensing and other contractual arrangements to establish and protect the proprietary aspects of our solutions. We do not own any patents that protect important aspects of our current solutions. The laws of some countries in which we sell our solutions and services may not protect software and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws in the United States. If we are unable to prevent misappropriation of our technology, competitors may be able to use and adapt our technology. 20 Our failure to protect our technology could diminish our competitive advantage and cause us to lose customers to competitors. Our business may suffer if we are sued for infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties, or if we are unable to obtain rights to third party intellectual property on which we depend. Third parties have in the past asserted and may in the future assert claims that we are infringing their proprietary rights. Such infringement claims may cause us to incur significant costs in defending those claims. We may be required to discontinue using and selling any infringing technology and services, to expend resources to develop non-infringing technology or to purchase licenses or pay royalties for other technology. Similarly, we depend on our ability to license intellectual property from third parties. These or other third parties may become unwilling to license to us on acceptable terms intellectual property that is necessary to our business. In either case, we may be unable to acquire licenses for other technology on reasonable commercial terms or at all. As a result, we may find that we are unable to continue to offer the solutions and services upon which our business depends. We have received, and have currently pending, third-party claims and may receive additional notices of such claims of infringement in the future. To date, such activities have not had a material adverse effect on our business and we have either prevailed in all litigation, obtained a license on commercially acceptable terms or otherwise been able to modify any affected products or technology. However, there can be no assurance that we will continue to prevail in any such actions or that any license required under any such patent or other intellectual property would be made available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. See “Item 3—Legal Proceedings.” We depend on a limited number of key members of senior management who would be difficult to replace. If we lose the services of these individuals or are unable to attract new talent, our business will be adversely affected. We depend upon the ability and experience of a number of our key members of senior management who have substantial experience with our operations, the rapidly changing electronic payment transaction industry and the selected markets in which we offer our solutions. The loss of the services of one or a combination of our senior executives or key managers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, manage and retain other qualified middle management and technical and clerical personnel as we grow. We may not be able to continue to attract or retain such personnel in the future. We intend to make acquisitions and strategic investments, which will involve numerous risks. We may not be able to address these risks without substantial expense, delay or other operational or financial problems. Although we have a limited history of making acquisitions or strategic investments, a part of our strategy will be to acquire or make investments in related businesses, technologies or products in the future. Acquisitions or investments involve various risks, such as: · the difficulty of integrating the technologies, operations and personnel of the acquired business, technology or product; · the potential disruption of our ongoing business, including the diversion of management attention; · the possible inability to obtain the desired financial and strategic benefits from the acquisition or investment; · loss of customers; · assumption of unanticipated liabilities; · the loss of key employees of an acquired business; and 21 · the possibility of our entering markets in which we have limited prior experience. Future acquisitions and investments could also result in substantial cash expenditures, potentially dilutive issuance of our equity securities, our incurring of additional debt and contingent liabilities, and amortization expenses related to other intangible assets that could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We depend on the retention and performance of existing management and employees of acquired businesses for the day-to-day management and future operating results of these businesses. Shipments of electronic payment systems may be delayed by factors outside of our control, which can harm our reputation and our relationships with our customers. The shipment of payment systems requires us or our manufacturers, distributors or other agents to obtain customs or other government certifications and approvals, and, on occasion, to submit to physical inspection of our systems in transit. Failure to satisfy these requirements, and the very process of trying to satisfy them, can lead to lengthy delays in the delivery of our solutions to our direct or indirect customers. Delays and unreliable delivery by us may harm our reputation in the industry and our relationships with our customers. Force majeure events, such as terrorist attacks, other acts of violence or war, political instability and health epidemics may adversely affect us. Terrorist attacks, war, and international political instability, along with health epidemics may disrupt our ability to generate revenues. Such events may negatively affect our ability to maintain sales revenue and to develop new business relationships. Because a substantial and growing part of our revenues is derived from sales and services to customers outside of the United States and we have our electronic payment systems manufactured outside the U.S., terrorist attacks, war and international political instability anywhere may decrease international demand for our products and inhibit customer development opportunities abroad, disrupt our supply chain and impair our ability to deliver our electronic payment systems, which could materially adversely affect our net revenues or results of operations. Any of these events may also disrupt global financial markets and precipitate a decline in the price of our common stock. Our internal control over financial reporting may not be effective and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to certify as to its effectiveness, which could have a significant and adverse effect on our business and reputation. We are evaluating our internal control over financial reporting in order to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules and regulations of the SEC thereunder, which we refer to as Section 404. We are currently performing the system and process evaluation and testing required (and any necessary remediation) in an effort to comply with management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404. The management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 will initially apply to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended October 31, 2006. However, as we are still in the evaluation process, we may identify conditions that may result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in the future. A material weakness is a significant deficiency, as defined in Public Accounting Oversight Board Auditing Standard No. 2 or a combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the Company’s annual or interim financial statements would not be prevented or detected by company personnel in the normal course of performing their assigned functions. 22 We cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and any remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations. If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, our internal controls would be considered ineffective for purposes of Section 404, our independent auditors may not be able to certify as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC. As a result, there could be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. In addition, we may be required to incur costs in improving our internal control system and the hiring of additional personnel. Any such action could negatively affect our results. If we are unable to improve and maintain the quality of our internal controls, any weaknesses could materially and adversely affect our ability to provide timely and accurate information about us, which could harm our reputation and share price. On several occasions since our separation from Hewlett-Packard, our independent registered public accounting firm has identified deficiencies in our internal controls which rose to the level of material weakness. We have worked diligently to correct these deficiencies. We are not aware of, nor did our independent registered public accounting firm inform us of, any matters involving internal controls that we consider to be material weaknesses relating to the years ended October 31, 2005 and October 31, 2004. Nevertheless, we cannot be certain that the measures we have taken will ensure that we will maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to maintain adequate controls or to adequately implement required new or improved controls could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. We are investing for RoHS but there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance in every respect. We are subject to other legal and regulatory requirements, including a European Union directive that places restrictions on the use of hazardous substances (RoHS) in electronic equipment. RoHS sets a framework for producers’ obligations in relation to manufacturing (including the amounts of named hazardous substances contained in products sold), labeling, and treatment, recovery and recycling of electronic products in the European Union which may require us to alter the manufacturing of the physical devices that include our solutions and/or require active steps to promote recycling of materials and components. Although the directive has been adopted by the European Commission, national legislation to implement the directive is still pending in the member states of the European Union. In addition, similar legislation could be enacted in other jurisdictions, including in the United States. If we do not comply with the RoHS directive, we may suffer a loss of revenue, be unable to sell in certain markets and/or countries, be subject to penalties and enforced fees and/or suffer a competitive disadvantage. Furthermore, we cannot be assured that the costs to comply with RoHS, or with current and future environmental and worker health and safety laws will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operation, expenses and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Industry Our markets are highly competitive and subject to price erosion. The markets for our system solutions and services are highly competitive, and we have been subject to price pressures. Competition from manufacturers, distributors or providers of products similar to or competitive with our system solutions or services could result in price reductions, reduced margins and a loss of market share or could render our solutions obsolete. 23 We expect to continue to experience significant and increasing levels of competition in the future. We compete with suppliers of cash registers that provide built in electronic payment capabilities and producers of software that facilitates electronic payment over the internet, as well as other manufacturers or distributors of electronic payment systems. We must also compete with smaller companies that have been able to develop strong local or regional customer bases. In certain foreign countries, some competitors are more established, benefit from greater name recognition and have greater resources within those countries than we do. If we do not continually enhance our existing solutions and develop and market new solutions and enhancements, our net revenues and income will be adversely affected. The market for electronic payment systems is characterized by: · rapid technological change; · frequent product introductions and enhancements; · evolving industry and government performance and security standards; and · changes in customer and end-user requirements. Because of these factors, we must continually enhance our existing solutions and develop and market new solutions. We cannot be sure that we will successfully complete the development and introduction of new solutions or enhancements or that our new solutions will be accepted in the marketplace. We may also fail to develop and deploy new solutions and enhancements on a timely basis. In either case, we may lose market share to our competitors, and our net revenues and income could suffer. We must adhere to industry and government regulations and standards and therefore sales will suffer if we cannot comply with them. Our system solutions must meet industry standards imposed by EMVCo, Visa, MasterCard and other credit card associations and standard setting organizations. New standards are continually being adopted or proposed as a result of worldwide anti-fraud initiatives, the increasing need for system compatibility and technology developments such as wireless and wireline IP communication. Our solutions also must comply with government regulations, including those imposed by telecommunications authorities and independent standards groups worldwide regarding emissions, radiation and connections with telecommunications and radio networks. We cannot be sure that we will be able to design our solutions to comply with future standards or regulations on a timely basis, if at all. Compliance with these standards could increase the cost of developing or producing our solutions. If we are unable to comply with new industry standards, or we cannot obtain or retain necessary regulatory approval or certifications in a timely fashion, or if compliance increases the cost of our solutions, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Capital Structure Our secured credit facility contains restrictive and financial covenants and, if we are unable to comply with these covenants, we will be in default. A default could result in the acceleration of our outstanding indebtedness, which would have an adverse effect on our business and stock price. In June 2004, our principal operating subsidiary, VeriFone, Inc., and another subsidiary entered into a secured credit facility under which, as of October 31, 2005, VeriFone, Inc. had outstanding indebtedness, excluding capital leases, of approximately $182.6 million. 24 Our secured credit facility contains customary covenants that require our subsidiaries to maintain certain specified financial ratios and restrict their ability to make certain distributions with respect to their capital stock, prepay other debt, encumber their assets, incur additional indebtedness, make capital expenditures above specified levels, engage in certain business combinations, or undertake various other corporate activities. Therefore, as a practical matter, these covenants restrict our ability to engage in or benefit from such activities. In addition, we have, in order to secure repayment of our secured credit facility, pledged substantially all of our assets and properties. This pledge may reduce our operating flexibility because it restricts our ability to dispose of these assets or engage in other transactions that may be beneficial to us. If we are unable to comply with any of these covenants, we will be in default, which could result in the acceleration of our outstanding indebtedness. If acceleration occurred, we would not be able to repay our debt and it is unlikely that we would be able to borrow sufficient additional funds to refinance our debt. Even if new financing is made available to us, it may not be available on acceptable terms. We had negative stockholders’ equity in the past, which could limit our ability to obtain additional financing. As of October 31, 2005, we had stockholders’ equity of $26.5 million primarily due to the capital we received in our initial public and follow-on offerings and our earnings in fiscal 2005 but at October 31, 2004, we had stockholders’ deficit of $135.4 million, due in part to a $97.4 million dividend paid on June 30, 2004. This may make lenders and other potential investors less likely to provide us with additional debt or equity financing. If we require additional financing, there is no guarantee that we can obtain it on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to obtain additional, needed financing, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. GTCR has substantial influence over our operations, which will limit our other stockholders’ ability to influence corporate activities and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. GTCR owns or controls shares representing, in the aggregate, an approximately 36.9% voting interest in our company and has three of the seven members on our board of directors. Accordingly, GTCR may exercise substantial influence over our operations and business strategy. In addition, GTCR will have substantial influence over the outcome of votes on all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. GTCR may also exercise control, with respect to mergers or other business combinations that involve a change in control of us, under a stockholders agreement among us, GTCR and certain other stockholders. Subject to specified conditions, that agreement requires the stockholders who are parties to it to consent to a sale of VeriFone Holdings, Inc. to a non-affiliate of GTCR if the sale is approved by the holders of a majority of the shares subject to the agreement. This provision is described in more detail under the caption “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” in our 2006 Proxy Statement which is incorporated herein by reference. Shares subject to the stockholders agreement represent a majority of the voting power of our capital stock. Currently, shares will be released from the stockholders agreement as they are sold. To the extent that shares subject to the stockholders agreement continue to represent a majority of the voting power of our capital stock, GTCR will retain the practical ability to sell us in its sole discretion, because GTCR currently controls a majority of the shares subject to the stockholders agreement. GTCR’s ownership or control may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us or discouraging others from making tender offers for our shares, which could prevent stockholders from receiving a premium for their shares. These actions may be taken even if other stockholders oppose them. 25 Our Chief Executive Officer owns a significant stake in us and may be difficult to remove. Our Chief Executive Officer, Douglas Bergeron, beneficially owns shares representing, in the aggregate, approximately a 7.0% voting interest in our company. Moreover, Mr. Bergeron and several senior managers have a long professional history together at SunGard Data Systems Inc. Mr. Bergeron’s significant ownership stake in our company and his history with other senior management may also make it difficult for the board of directors to remove Mr. Bergeron or other members of senior management. Conflicts of interest may arise because some of our directors are principals of our significant stockholder. Three principals of GTCR serve on our board of directors, which currently has seven members. GTCR and its affiliates may invest in entities that directly or indirectly compete with us or companies in which they currently invest may begin competing with us. As a result of these relationships, when conflicts between the interests of GTCR and the interests of our other stockholders arise, these directors may not be disinterested. Although our directors and officers have a duty of loyalty to us, under Delaware law and our amended and restated certificate of incorporation that was adopted in connection with the closing of our initial public offering on May 4, 2005, transactions that we enter into in which a director or officer that is a representative of GTCR has a conflict of interest are generally permissible so long as (1) the material facts relating to the director’s or officer’s relationship or interest as to the transaction are disclosed to our board of directors and a majority of our disinterested directors approves the transaction, (2) the material facts relating to the director’s or officer’s relationship or interest as to the transaction are disclosed to our stockholders and a majority of our disinterested stockholders approves the transaction, or (3) the transaction is otherwise fair to us. GTCR’s representatives will not be required to offer to us any transaction opportunity of which they become aware and could take any such opportunity for themselves or offer it to other companies in which they have an investment, unless such opportunity is expressly offered to them solely in their capacity as a director of us. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may delay or prevent transactions that many stockholders may favor. Some provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws that became effective upon the completion of our initial public offering on May 4, 2005, may have the effect of delaying, discouraging, or preventing a merger or acquisition that our stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might receive a premium for their shares. These provisions include: · authorization of the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock without the need for action by stockholders; · the removal of directors or amendment of our organizational documents only by the affirmative vote of the holders of two-thirds of the shares of our capital stock entitled to vote; · provision that any vacancy on the board of directors, however occurring, including a vacancy resulting from an enlargement of the board, may only be filled by vote of the directors then in office; · inability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; and · advance notice requirements for board nominations and proposing matters to be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. 26 Our common stock has only been publicly traded since April 29, 2005 and we expect that the price of our common stock will fluctuate substantially. There has only been a public market for our common stock since April 29, 2005. Broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Factors that could cause fluctuations in our stock price may include, among other things: · actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; · changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts who might cover our stock, or our failure to meet the estimates made by securities analysts; · changes in the market valuations of other companies operating in our industry; · announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures; · additions or departures of key personnel; and · sales of our common stock, including sales of our common stock by our directors and officers or by GTCR or our other principal stockholders. 