Item 1A. Risk Factors. The financial condition, business, operations, and prospects of the Company involve a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, which constitute the material risks relating to the Company, and the other information in this report. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our Company and you should pay particular attention to the fact that we conduct our operations in China and are governed by a legal and regulatory environment that in some respects differs significantly from the environment that may prevail in other countries. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our operations. If any of the following risks are realized, the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed and the value of the Company’s stock could suffer. This means that investors and stockholders of the Company could lose all or a part of their investment 12 RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMPANY We cannot assure you that our organic growth strategy will be successful. One of our growth strategies is to grow organically through increasing the distribution and sales of our products by increasing our market share and entering new markets in the PRC. However, many obstacles to increasing our market share and entering such new markets exist, including, but not limited to, costs associated with increasing market share and entering into such markets and attendant marketing efforts. We cannot, therefore, assure you that we will be able to successfully overcome such obstacles and establish our products in any additional markets. Our inability to implement this organic growth strategy successfully may have a negative impact on our ability to grow and on our future financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. If we are not able to implement our strategies in achieving our business objectives, our business operations and financial performance may be adversely affected. Our business plan is based on circumstances currently prevailing and the bases and assumptions that certain circumstances will or will not occur, as well as the inherent risks and uncertainties involved in various stages of development. However, there is no assurance that we will be successful in implementing our strategies or that our strategies, even if implemented, will lead to the successful achievement of our objectives. If we are not able to successfully implement our strategies, our business operations and financial performance may be adversely affected. If we need additional capital to fund our growing operations, we may not be able to obtain sufficient capital and may be forced to limit the scope of our operations. As we implement our growth strategies, we may experience increased capital needs and we may not have enough capital to fund our future operations without additional capital investments. Our capital needs will depend on numerous factors, including (i) our profitability; (ii) the release of competitive products by our competition; (iii) the level of our investment in research and development; and (iv) the amount of our capital expenditures. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain capital in the future to meet our needs. If we cannot obtain additional funding, we may be required to: · reduce our investments in research and development; · limit our marketing efforts; and · decrease or eliminate capital expenditures. Such reductions could materially adversely affect our business and our ability to compete. Even if we do find a source of additional capital, we may not be able to negotiate terms and conditions for receiving the additional capital that are acceptable to us. Any future capital investments could dilute or otherwise materially and adversely affect the holdings or rights of our existing shareholders. We cannot give you any assurance that any additional financing will be available to us, or if available, will be on terms favorable to us. We may have difficulty defending our intellectual property rights from infringement. We regard our service marks, trademarks, trade secrets, patents and similar intellectual property as critical to our success. We rely on trademark, patent and trade secret law, as well as confidentiality and license agreements to protect our proprietary rights. Our brand name “Jinding” has received trademark protection in the PRC. No assurance can be given that such trademark and licenses will not be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented, or that such intellectual property rights will provide competitive advantage to us. Presently we sell our products mainly in China. China will remain our primary market for the foreseeable future. To date, no trademark filings have been made other than in China. Therefore, the measures we take to protect our proprietary rights may be inadequate and we cannot give you any assurance that our competitors will not independently develop formulations and processes that are substantially equivalent or superior to our own or copy our products. 13 A disproportionate amount of our sales revenue is derived from the sale of urea and a disruption in, or compromise of, our sales operations, or distribution channels, related to the sale of urea could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s sale of urea constituted more than approximately 65.65% and 45.37% of its total sales in the fiscal years ended March 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. A disruption in, or compromise of, our manufacturing or sales operations, or distribution channels, relating to the sale of urea could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have no firm long-term commitments from our suppliers to supply raw materials to us for any specific period, or in any specific quantity, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. If our suppliers experience delays, disruptions, capacity constraints or quality control problems in their operations or become insolvent, their product shipments to us could be delayed, which would decrease our production and harm our revenues, competitive position and reputation. Further, our business would be harmed if we fail to effectively manage the production of our products. Because we establish our minimum inventory threshold based on our forecasts of expected demand for our products, if we inaccurately forecast demand, we may be unable to obtain adequate quantities of raw materials to meet our production requirements. We purchase some key raw materials used in the manufacture of our products from our source suppliers, and we may not be able to obtain supplies from replacement suppliers on a timely or cost-effective basis. A reduction or stoppage in supply while we seek a replacement supplier would limit our ability to manufacture our products, which could result in a significant reduction in sales and profitability. In addition, an impurity or variation in a raw material either unknown to us or incompatible with our products, could significantly reduce our ability to manufacture products. Our inventories may not be adequate to meet our production needs during any prolonged interruption of supply. We have products under development which, if developed, may require us to enter into additional supplier arrangements. Failure to obtain a supplier for our future products, if any, on commercially reasonable terms, would prevent us from manufacturing our future products and limit our growth. Intense competition from existing chemical companies and new entities may adversely affect our revenues and profitability. We compete with other companies, many of whom are developing or can be expected to develop products similar to ours. Our market is a large market with many competitors. Our major competitors are the Junma Group and the Luxi Group. Many of our competitors are more established than we are, and have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we presently possess. Some of our competitors have greater name recognition and a larger customer base. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities and customer requirements and may be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities, offer more attractive terms to customers, and adopt more aggressive pricing policies. Our competitors can be expected to continue to develop and introduce new and enhanced products, which could cause a decline in market acceptance of our chemical products. Current and future consolidation among our competitors and customers may also cause a loss of market share as well as put downward pressure on pricing. Our competitors could cause a reduction in the prices for some of our chemical products as a result of intensified price competition. Competitive pressures can also result in the loss of major customers. We intend to create greater brand awareness for our brand name so that we can successfully compete with our competitors. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures we face will not harm our business. We face competition from other chemical companies, which could force us to lower our prices thereby adversely affecting our operating margins, financial condition, cash flows and profitability. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, and this competition could harm our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. Our competitors include major international producers as well as smaller regional competitors. We believe that a significant competitive factor for our products is selling price. We could be subject to adverse results caused by our competitors’ pricing decisions. In addition, current and anticipated future consolidation among our competitors and customers may cause us to lose market share as well as put downward pressure on pricing. Some of our competitors are larger and have greater financial resources. As a result, those competitors may be better able to withstand a change in conditions within our industry and throughout the economy as a whole. If we do not compete successfully, our business, operating margins, financial condition, cash flows and profitability could be adversely affected. 14 The products and the processes we use could expose us to substantial liability. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our technologies or products is alleged to have resulted in adverse side effects. Side effects or marketing or manufacturing problems pertaining to any of our products could result in product liability claims or adverse publicity. To date, we have not experienced any product liability claims. However, that does not mean that we will not have any problems with respect to our products in the future. We do not currently carry product liability insurance. The lack of product liability insurance may expose us to enormous risks associated with potential product liability claims. We currently carry insurance policies which are customary for enterprises in China providing for property coverage of $12,726,927 transport vehicles of $217,589, and workers’ medical and accident coverage of $82,562. There are no special restrictions or exceptions attached to this coverage other than fraudulent or criminal conducts on part of the claimant. We have limited business insurance coverage. The insurance industry in the PRC is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in the PRC offer limited business insurance products, and do not, to our knowledge, offer business liability insurance. As a result, we do not have any business liability insurance coverage for our operations. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. We depend on key personnel for the success of our business. Our business may be severely disrupted if we lose the services of our key executives and employees or fail to add new senior and middle managers to our management. We place substantial reliance upon the efforts and abilities of our executive officers, Messrs. Zhou Dianchang , Wang Gui Quan, Li Dong Lai, Wu Peng and Wang Xiang Fu. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, revenues or prospects. Our future success is also dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified senior and middle managers to our management team. If one or more of our current or future key executives and employees are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to easily replace them, and our business may be severely disrupted. In addition, if any of these key executives or employees joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we could lose customers and suppliers and incur additional expenses to recruit and train personnel. We do not maintain key man life insurance on the lives of these individuals. Our results of operations may be materially harmed if we are unable to recoup our investment in research and development. The rapid change in technology in our industry requires that we continue to make investments in research and development in order to not only develop technologies, but we must also enhance the performance and functionality of our products and keep pace with competitive products and satisfy customer demands for improved performance, features, functionality and costs. There can be no assurance that revenues from future products or product enhancements will be sufficient to recover the development costs associated with such products or enhancements or that we will be able to secure the financial resources necessary to fund future development. Research and development costs typically are incurred before we confirm the technical feasibility and commercial viability of a product, and not all development activities result in commercially viable products. In addition, we cannot ensure that these products or enhancements will receive market acceptance or that we will be able to sell these products at prices that are favorable to us. Our business could be seriously harmed if we are unable to sell our products at favorable prices or if the market in which we operate does not accept our products. 15 Failure to develop new chemical products and/or improve our existing products will make us less competitive. Our results of operations depend, in part, on our ability to expand our chemical product offerings. We are committed to remaining a competitive producer and believe that our portfolio of new or re-engineered products is strong. However, we may not be able to continue to develop new products, re-engineer our existing products successfully or bring them to market in a timely manner. While we believe that the products, pricing and services we offer customers are competitive, we may not be able to continue to attract and retain customers to which to sell our chemical products. Changes in our customers’ products could reduce the demand for our chemical products, which may decrease our net sales and operating margins. Our chemical products are used for a broad range of applications by our customers. Changes, including technological changes, in our customers’ products or processes may make our chemical products unnecessary, which would reduce the demand for those products. Other customers may find alternative materials or processes that no longer require our products. If the demand for our chemical products is reduced, our net sales and operating margins may be reduced as well. Our projects involve long development cycles that result in high costs and uncertainty. The development, operation and management of our products and facilities involve a long development cycle and decision-making process. Delays in the parties’ decision-marking process are outside of our control and may have a negative impact on our development costs, cost of sales, receipt of revenue and sales projections. We expect that, in some cases, it may take a year or more to obtain decisions and to negotiate and close the agreements. Such delays could harm our operating results and financial condition. We are a small company, and the entrance of large companies into the alternative fuels, renewable energy and chemical fertilizer business will likely harm our business. Competition in the alternative fuels, renewable energy and chemical fertilizer business is expanding with the growth of the industry and the advent of many new technologies. Larger companies, due to their better capitalization, will be better positioned to develop new technologies and to install existing or more advanced renewable energy generators, which could harm our market share and business. Because the market for renewable energy is unproven, it is possible that we may expend large sums of money to bring our offerings to market and the revenue that we derive may be insufficient to fund our operations. Our business approach to the renewable energy industry may not produce results as anticipated, be profitable or be readily accepted by the marketplace. We cannot estimate whether demand for facilities based on our technology, or the gas produced by such facilities, will materialize at anticipated prices, or whether satisfactory profit margins will be achieved. If such pricing levels are not achieved or sustained, or if our technologies and business approach to our markets do not achieve or sustain broad acceptance, our business, operating results and financial condition will be materially and negatively impacted. We depend on only one factory to manufacture our products and any disruption of the operations in this factory would damage our business. All of our products are manufactured in the Company’s one factory in Xicheng Industrial Zone, Luoshan, Henan, PRC which we depend on to produce the products that we sell. Our operations could be interrupted by fire, flood, earthquake and other events beyond our control. Any disruption of the operations in this factory would have a significant negative impact on our ability to deliver products, which would cause a potential diminution on sales, the cancellation of orders, damage to our reputation and potential lawsuits. Our revenues from chemical products depend heavily on government policies. If the government changes its policies, our revenues and profit from our chemical products could decrease significantly. To boost the income of millions of Chinese farmers and enhance China’s national security, the Chinese government has instituted policies that encourage farmers in China to increase their production of grains by limiting the price of ammonium fertilizers while at the same time providing the fertilizer industry some relief, including capping the price of raw materials, providing for preferential pricing for electricity and exempting value added tax. Due to the policies, our chemical business is able to realize a profitable margin. However, the Chinese government changes its policies from time to time. If the Chinese government changes the policies currently in place that compensate our loss due to the price control, our revenues and profit from our chemical business could suffer. 16 Our chemical manufacturing business is highly risky and hazardous. We may face environmental and safety problems. Our chemical manufacturing process produces exhaust gas and waste water which may pollute the environment. If an accident occurs in our chemical plant, toxic gas and other pollutants could leak and cause serious pollution problems. Moreover, most of our chemical products are flammable, explosive, and dangerous and pose a threat to the health and safety of our employees and residents around our facility, and if any accident occurs during manufacturing or in transportation, there could be dire consequences. The cost of our raw materials fluctuates significantly, which may adversely impact our profit margin and financial position Our chemical business uses coal as raw material. In the last two years, coal prices have fluctuated substantially. Although the price for coal dropped last year, it may go up again in the future due to the rapid development of the Chinese economy and the resulting huge demand for energy. If the price for coal increases again, our profit margin could decrease considerably. Our failure to comply with ongoing governmental regulations could hurt our operations and reduce our market share. In China, the chemical industry is undergoing increasing regulations as environmental awareness increases in China. The trend is that the Chinese government toughens its regulations and penalties for violations of environmental regulations. New regulatory actions are constantly changing our industry. Although we believe we have complied with applicable government regulations, there is no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. Our financial results may be affected by mandated changes in accounting and financial reporting. We prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These principles are subject to interpretation by the Securities and Exchange Commission and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in these policies may have a significant effect on our reported results and may even retroactively affect previously reported transactions. Our auditors have qualified the Company as a “Going Concern” in the audit opinion. The Company received a report from its independent registered public accounting firm for the year ended March 31, 2009, containing an explanatory paragraph stating that the Company's net loss for the year and working capital deficit raise substantial doubt about the Company's ability to continue as a going concern. RISKS RELATING TO THE PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA Certain political and economic considerations relating to PRC could adversely affect our Company. The PRC is transitioning from a planned economy to a market economy. While the PRC government has pursued economic reforms since its adoption of the open-door policy in 1978, a large portion of the PRC economy is still operating under five-year plans and annual state plans. Through these plans and other economic measures, such as control on foreign exchange, taxation and restrictions on foreign participation in the domestic market of various industries, the PRC government exerts considerable direct and indirect influence on the economy. Many of the economic reforms carried out by the PRC government are unprecedented or experimental, and are expected to be refined and improved. Other political, economic and social factors can also lead to further readjustment of such reforms. This refining and readjustment process may not necessarily have a positive effect on our operations or future business development. Our operating results may be adversely affected by changes in the PRC’s economic and social conditions as well as by changes in the policies of the PRC government, such as changes in laws and regulations (or the official interpretation thereof), measures which may be introduced to control inflation, changes in the interest rate or method of taxation, and the imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion. 17 The recent nature and uncertain application of many PRC laws applicable to us create an uncertain environment for business operations and they could have a negative effect on us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system. Unlike the common law system, the civil law system is based on written statutes in which decided legal cases have little value as precedents. In 1979, the PRC began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and has since introduced many laws and regulations to provide general guidance on economic and business practices in the PRC and to regulate foreign investment. Progress has been made in the promulgation of laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. The promulgation of new laws, changes of existing laws and the abrogation of local regulations by national laws could have a negative impact on our business and business prospects. In addition, as these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent, their interpretation and enforcement involve significant uncertainty. Currency conversion and exchange rate volatility could adversely affect our financial condition. The PRC government imposes control over the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies. Under the current unified floating exchange rate system, the People’s Bank of China publishes an exchange rate, which we refer to as the PBOC exchange rate, based on the previous day’s dealings in the inter-bank foreign exchange market. Financial institutions authorized to deal in foreign currency may enter into foreign exchange transactions at exchange rates within an authorized range above or below the PBOC exchange rate according to market conditions. Pursuant to the Foreign Exchange Control Regulations of the PRC issued by the State Council which came into effect on April 1, 1996, and the Regulations on the Administration of Foreign Exchange Settlement, Sale and Payment of the PRC which came into effect on July 1, 1996, regarding foreign exchange control, conversion of Renminbi into foreign exchange by Foreign Investment Enterprises, or FIEs, for use on current account items, including the distribution of dividends and profits to foreign investors, is permissible. FIEs are permitted to convert their after-tax dividends and profits to foreign exchange and remit such foreign exchange to their foreign exchange bank accounts in the PRC. Conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies for capital account items, including direct investment, loans, and security investment, is still under certain restrictions. On January 14, 1997, the State Council amended the Foreign Exchange Control Regulations and added, among other things, an important provision, which provides that the PRC government shall not impose restrictions on recurring international payments and transfers under current account items. Enterprises in the PRC (including FIEs) which require foreign exchange for transactions relating to current account items, may, without approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, effect payment from their foreign exchange account or convert and pay at the designated foreign exchange banks by providing valid receipts and proofs. Convertibility of foreign exchange in respect of capital account items, such as direct investment and capital contribution, is still subject to certain restrictions, and prior approval from the SAFE or its relevant branches must be sought. Since 1994, the exchange rate for Renminbi against the United States dollars has remained relatively stable, most of the time in the region of approximately RMB8.28 to US$1.00. However, in 2005, the Chinese government announced that would begin pegging the exchange rate of the Chinese Renminbi against a number of currencies, rather than just the U.S. dollar. As our operations are primarily in China, any significant revaluation of the Chinese Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues and financial condition. For example, to the extent that we need to convert United States dollars into Chinese Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of this currency against the United States dollar could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Conversely, if we decide to convert Chinese Renminbi into United States dollars for other business purposes and the United States dollar appreciates against this currency, the United States dollar equivalent of the Chinese Renminbi we convert would be reduced. 18 It may be difficult to effect service of process and enforcement of legal judgments upon our company and our officers and directors because they reside outside the United States. As our operations are presently based in China and our officers and certain of our directors reside in China, service of process on our company and our officers and certain directors may be difficult to effect within the United States. Also, our main assets are located in China and any judgment obtained in the United States against us may not be enforceable outside the United States. Any future outbreak of avian influenza, or the Asian Bird Flu, or any other epidemic in China could have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. Since mid-December 2003, a growing number of Asian countries have reported outbreaks of highly pathogenic avian influenza in chickens and ducks. Since all of our operations are in China, an outbreak of the Asian Bird Flu in China in the future may disrupt our business operations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For example, an new outbreak of Asian Bird Flu, or any other epidemic, may reduce the level of economic activity in affected areas, which may lead to a reduction in our revenue if our clients cancel existing contracts or defer future expenditures. In addition, health or other government regulations may require temporary closure of our offices, or the offices of our customers or partners, which will severely disrupt our business operations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business may be affected by unexpected changes in regulatory requirements in the jurisdictions in which we operate. We are subject to many general regulations governing business entities and their behavior in China and in other jurisdictions in which we have operations. In particular, we are subject to laws and regulations covering food, health supplements and pharmaceutical products. Such regulations typically deal with licensing, approvals and permits. Any change in product licensing may make our products more or less available on the market. Such changes may have a positive or negative impact on the sale of our products and may directly impact the associated costs in compliance and our operational and financial viability. Such regulatory environment also covers any existing or potential trade barriers in the form of import tariff and taxes that may make it difficult for us to import our products to certain countries and regions, which would limit any potential expansion. We may have difficulty in attracting talent. As we plan to expand, we will have to attract managerial staff. We may not be able to identify and retain qualified personnel due to our lack of understanding of different cultures and lack of local contacts. This may impede any potential expansion. We may experience currency fluctuation and longer exchange rate payment cycles. The local currencies in the countries in which we sell our products may fluctuate in value in relation to other currencies. Such fluctuations may affect the costs of our products sold and the value of our local currency profits. While we are not conducting any meaningful operations in countries other than China at the present time, we may expand to other countries and may then have an increased risk of exposure of our business to currency fluctuation. All of our assets are located in China, any dividends of proceeds from liquidation is subject to the approval of the relevant Chinese government agencies. Our assets are located inside China. Under the laws governing foreign invested enterprises in China, dividend distribution and liquidation are allowed but subject to special procedures under the relevant laws and rules. Any dividend payment will be subject to the decision of the board of directors and subject to foreign exchange rules governing such repatriation. Any liquidation is subject to both the relevant government agency’s approval and supervision as well the foreign exchange control. This may generate additional risk for our investors in case of dividend payment and liquidation. 19 Changes in China’s political or economic situation could harm us and our operational results Economic reforms adopted by the Chinese government have had a positive effect on the economic development of the country, but the government could change these economic reforms or any of the legal systems at any time. This could either benefit or damage our operations and profitability. Some of the things that could have this effect are: · Level of government involvement in the economy; · Control of foreign exchange; · Methods of allocation resources; · Balance of payments position; · International trade restrictions; and · International conflict. The Chinese government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. China only recently has permitted provincial and local economic autonomy and private economic activities. Chinese government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of these jurisdictions may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof, and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties or joint ventures. Future inflation in China may inhibit our activity to conduct business in China. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and high rates of inflation. During the past ten years, the rate of inflation in China has been as high as 20.7% and as low as -2.2%. These factors have led to the adoption by Chinese government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. While inflation has been more moderate since 1995, high inflation may in the future cause Chinese government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China and thereby harm the market for our products. The value of our securities will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and Renminbi. The value of our common stock will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and Renminbi, and between those currencies and other currencies in which our sales may be denominated. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for our operational needs and should the Renminbi appreciate against the U.S. dollar at that time, our financial position, the business of the Company, and the price of our common stock may be harmed. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of declaring dividends on our common stock or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Renminbi, the U.S. dollar equivalent of our earnings from our subsidiaries in China would be reduced. 20 We are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. We are required to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits United States companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. In addition, we are required to maintain records that accurately and fairly represent our transactions and have an adequate system of internal accounting controls. Foreign companies, including some that may compete with us, are not subject to these prohibitions, and therefore may have a competitive advantage over us. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time-to-time in the PRC, particularly in our industry since it deals with contracts from the Chinese Government, and our executive officers and employees have not been subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act prior to the completion of the Exchange Agreement (defined herein). If our competitors engage in these practices they may receive preferential treatment from personnel of some companies, giving our competitors an advantage in securing business or from government officials who might give them priority in obtaining new licenses, which would put us at a disadvantage. We can make no assurance that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMON STOCK The market price for shares of our common stock could be volatile; the sale of material amounts of our common stock could reduce the price of our common stock and encourage short sales. The market price for the shares of our common stock may fluctuate in response to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Such factors may include, without limitation, the general economic and monetary environment, quarter-to-quarter variations in our anticipated and actual operating results, future financing activities and the open-market trading of our shares in particular. Our common stock price is volatile and could decline in the future. The stock market, in general, and the market price for shares of pharmaceutical companies in particular, have experienced extreme stock price fluctuations. In some cases, these fluctuations have been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. Many companies in the pharmaceutical and related industries have experienced dramatic volatility in the market prices of their common stock. We believe that a number of factors, both within and outside of our control, could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially. Factors such as the following could have a significant adverse impact on the market price of our common stock: · the results of preclinical studies and clinical trials by us or by our competitors; · concern as to, or other evidence of, the safety or efficacy of our proposed products or our competitors’ products; · announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; · developments concerning our proprietary rights or our competitors’ rights (including litigation); · our ability to obtain additional financing and, if available, the terms and conditions of the financing; · our financial position and results of operations; · litigation; · period-to-period fluctuations in our operating results; · changes in estimates of our performance by any securities analysts; 21 · new regulatory requirements and changes in the existing regulatory environment; · market conditions for life science stocks in general; · the issuance of new equity securities in a future offering; · changes in interest rates; · market conditions of securities traded on the NASDAQ Stock Market; · investor perceptions of us and the medical device industry generally; and · general economic and other national conditions. Shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. From time to time, certain of our stockholders may be eligible to sell all or some of their shares of common stock by means of ordinary brokerage transactions in the open market pursuant to Rule 144, promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, subject to certain limitations. In general, pursuant to Rule 144, a stockholder (or stockholders whose shares are aggregated) who is an affiliate of the Company and has satisfied a six-month holding period may, under certain circumstances, sell within any three-month period a number of securities which does not exceed the greater of 1% of the then outstanding shares of common stock or the average weekly trading volume of the class during the four calendar weeks prior to such sale. Rule 144 also permits, under certain circumstances, the sale of securities, without any limitations, by a non-affiliate of our company that has satisfied a one-year holding period. Any substantial sale of common stock pursuant to Rule 144 or pursuant to this resale prospectus may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. One stockholder exercises significant control over matters requiring shareholder approval. After giving effect to the issuance of all the shares of common stock, Auto Chance International Limited has voting power equal to approximately 59.34% of our voting securities. As a result, Auto Chance International Limited, through such stock ownership, exercises significant control over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership in Auto Chance International Limited may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us that may be otherwise viewed as beneficial by shareholders other than Auto Chance International Limited. We may incur significant costs to ensure compliance with U.S. corporate governance and accounting requirements. We may incur significant costs associated with our public company reporting requirements, costs associated with newly applicable corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other rules implemented by the SEC. We expect all of these applicable rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. We also expect that these applicable rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these newly applicable rules, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. 22 We may be required to raise additional financing by issuing new securities with terms or rights superior to those of our shares of common stock, which could adversely affect the market price of our shares of common stock. We may require additional financing to fund future operations, including expansion in current and new markets, programming development and acquisition, capital costs and the costs of any necessary implementation of technological innovations or alternative technologies. We may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, if at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, the percentage ownership of our current shareholders will be reduced, and the holders of the new equity securities may have rights superior to those of the holders of shares of common stock, which could adversely affect the market price and the voting power of shares of our common stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt securities, the holders of these debt securities would similarly have some rights senior to those of the holders of shares of common stock, and the terms of these debt securities could impose restrictions on operations and create a significant interest expense for us. We may have difficulty raising necessary capital to fund operations as a result of market price volatility for our shares of common stock. In recent years, the securities markets in the United States have experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market price of securities of many companies have experienced wide fluctuations that have not necessarily been related to the operations, performances, underlying asset values or prospects of such companies. For these reasons, our shares of common stock can also be expected to be subject to volatility resulting from purely market forces over which we will have no control. If our business development plans are successful, we may require additional financing to continue to develop and exploit existing and new technologies and to expand into new markets. The exploitation of our technologies may, therefore, be dependent upon our ability to obtain financing through debt and equity or other means. Standards for compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 are uncertain, and if we fail to comply in a timely manner, our business could be harmed and our stock price could decline. Rules adopted by the SEC, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 require annual assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, and attestation of our assessment by our independent registered public accountants. The annual assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting by our management applies to our financial reporting for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009. The rules regarding the attestation of our assessment by our independent registered public accountants will apply to our financial reporting for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2010. The standards that must be met for management to assess the internal control over financial reporting as effective are new and complex, and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards and will impose significant additional expenses on us. We may encounter problems or delays in completing activities necessary to make an assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, the attestation process by our independent registered public accountants is new and we may encounter problems or delays in completing the implementation of any requested improvements and receiving an attestation of our assessment by our independent registered public accountants. If we cannot assess our internal control over financial reporting as effective, or our independent registered public accountants are unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on such assessment, investor confidence and share value may be negatively impacted. We do not foresee paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have not paid cash dividends on our stock and we do not plan to pay cash dividends on our stock in the foreseeable future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. Item 