ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks set forth below may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition to the risks set forth below and the factors affecting specific business operations identified with the description of these operations elsewhere in this report, there may also be risks of which we are currently aware, or that we currently regard as immaterial based on the information available to us that later prove to be material. Risks Related to Our Business Although we expect that the acquisition of Lipman will result in benefits to our company, those benefits may not occur because of integration and other challenges. Achieving the benefits we expect from the acquisition of Lipman depends in part on our ability to integrate VeriFone’s and Lipman’s technology, operations and personnel in a timely and efficient manner. Although much of this integration has already occurred, some of the more complex aspects of integration will take time to complete. The challenges involved in this integration include: · incorporating Lipman’s technology and products into our next generation of products; · integrating Lipman’s technical team in Israel with our larger and more widely dispersed engineering organization; · coordinating research and development activities to enhance introduction of new products, services and technologies; · integrating Lipman’s in-house manufacturing model with the outsource model employed by VeriFone; · integrating Lipman’s international operations with those of VeriFone; and · persuading the employees in various jurisdictions that Lipman’s business cultures are compatible with ours, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees. 17 If our operations after the acquisition do not meet the expectations of existing customers of VeriFone or Lipman, then these customers may cease doing business with the company altogether, which would harm our results of operations and financial condition. Costs associated with the acquisition are difficult to estimate, may be higher than expected and may harm the financial results of the combined company. We will incur substantial direct expenses associated with the merger, and additional costs associated with consolidation and integration of operations. If the total costs of the acquisition exceed estimates or the benefits of the acquisition do not exceed the total costs of the acquisition, our financial results could be adversely affected. We intend to make acquisitions and strategic investments, which will involve numerous risks. We may not be able to address these risks without substantial expense, delay or other operational or financial problems. Although we have a limited history of making acquisitions or strategic investments, a part of our strategy will be to acquire or make investments in related businesses, technologies or products in the future. Acquisitions or investments, including the acquisition of Lipman, involve various risks, such as: · the difficulty of integrating the technologies, operations and personnel of the acquired business, technology or product; · the potential disruption of our ongoing business, including the diversion of management attention; · the possible inability to obtain the desired financial and strategic benefits from the acquisition or investment; · loss of customers; · assumption of unanticipated liabilities; · the loss of key employees of an acquired business; and · the possibility of our entering markets in which we have limited prior experience. Future acquisitions and investments could also result in substantial cash expenditures, potentially dilutive issuance of our equity securities, our incurring of additional debt and contingent liabilities, and amortization expenses related to other intangible assets that could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We depend on the retention and performance of existing management and employees of acquired businesses for the day-to-day management and future operating results of these businesses. Both VeriFone and Lipman have experienced a period of rapid growth, and if we cannot adequately manage our growth, our result of operations will suffer. Both VeriFone and Lipman have experienced rapid growth in our operations, both internally and from Lipman’s acquisition of Dione in 2004, and will grow further as a result of the merger. The anticipated future growth of the expanded company may place a significant strain on managerial, operational and financial resources. We cannot be sure that we have made adequate allowances for the costs and risks associated with our expansion, or that our systems, procedures and managerial controls will be adequate to support our expanded operations. Any delay in implementing, or transitioning to, new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls may adversely affect our ability to manage our product inventory and record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. We believe our growth will require us to hire additional engineering, technical support, sales, administrative and operational personnel. Competition for qualified personnel can be intense in the areas where we operate. The process of locating, training and successfully integrating qualified personnel into our operations can be 18 lengthy and expensive. If we are unable to successfully manage our expansion, we may not grow our business, our expenses may increase and our results of operations may be adversely affected. A growing percentage of Lipman’s business has been executed towards the end of its fiscal quarters. This trend could negatively impact our business and results of operations after the acquisition. Over the past several years, Lipman’s fiscal quarters have tended toward becoming increasingly back end loaded. This means that sales orders are being received and revenue recognized increasingly towards the latter part of each fiscal quarter. If this trend continues, and in particular if our other operations experience a similar trend, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected due to the following factors: · the manufacturing processes at our manufacturing facility in Israel could become concentrated in a shorter time period. This concentration of manufacturing could increase labor and other manufacturing costs and negatively impact gross margins. The risk of inventory write offs could also increase if we were to hold higher inventory levels to counteract this; · the higher concentration of orders may make it difficult to accurately forecast component requirements and, as a result, we could experience a shortage of the components needed for production, possibly delaying shipments and causing lost orders; and · if we are unable to fill orders at the end of a quarter shipments may be delayed. This could increase the fluctuation of quarterly results if shipments are delayed from one fiscal quarter to the next or orders being cancelled by customers. The government tax benefits that Lipman currently receives require it to meet several conditions and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would reduce our net income. Lipman has received tax benefits under Israeli law for capital investments that are designated as “Approved Enterprises.” Lipman received such tax benefits of approximately $5.0 million in 2005 and $6.4 million in 2004. To maintain our eligibility for these tax benefits, we must continue to meet conditions, including making specified investments in property, plant and equipment, and continuing to manufacture in Israel. If we do not comply with these conditions in the future, the benefits received could be cancelled or reduced and we could be required to pay increased taxes or refund the amounts of the tax benefits Lipman received in the past, together with interest and penalties. Also, an increase in our assembly of products outside of Israel may be construed as a failure to comply with these conditions. These tax benefits may not continue in the future at the current levels or at all. The termination or reduction of these tax benefits, or our inability to qualify for new programs, could adversely affect our results of operations. Lipman has retained earnings of approximately $71.0 million, the vast majority of which are attributable to Lipman’s Approved Enterprise programs. As such these earnings were not subject to Israeli corporate tax at the time they were generated. To the extent that these retained earnings are distributed to us in the future, Lipman would be subject to corporate tax at the rate ordinarily applicable to such earnings (currently between 10% and 25%). We face risks related to a planned migration to a common enterprise resource planning information system to integrate all business and finance activities We are in the process of migrating to a new enterprise resource planning information system, which will replace our existing system. We plan to integrate all business and finance activities into this new system by the first quarter of fiscal year 2008. Due to the size and complexity of our business, including the recent acquisition of Lipman, the conversion process will be very challenging. Any disruptions and problems that occur during the system conversion could adversely impact our ability to finish the conversion in a timely and cost effective way. Even if we do succeed, the implementation may be much more costly than we 19 anticipated. If we are unable to successfully implement our new information system as planned, in addition to adversely impacting our financial position, results of operations and cash flows in the short and long term, it could also affect our ability to collect the information necessary to timely file our financial reports with the SEC. We depend upon third parties to physically manufacture many of our systems and to supply the components necessary to manufacture our products. Prior to the Lipman acquisition, VeriFone did not operate the production facilities that manufacture the physical systems we design which form part of our system solutions. In addition, Lipman did not manufacture systems it sold in Brazil or a majority of the systems designed by its Dione subsidiary. We arrange for a limited number of third parties to manufacture these systems under our specifications. Components such as application specific integrated circuits (ASICs), payment processors, wireless modules, modems and printer mechanisms that are necessary to manufacture and assemble our systems are sourced either directly by us or on our behalf by our contract manufacturers from a variety of component suppliers selected by us. If our suppliers are unable to produce the quantities that we require, we would be faced with a shortage of critical components. We also experience from time to time an increase in the lead time for delivery of some of our key components. We may not be able to find alternative sources in a timely manner if suppliers of our key components become unwilling or unable to provide us with adequate supplies of these key components when we need them or if they increase their prices. The inability to obtain sufficient key components as required, or to develop alternative sources if and as required in the future, or to replace our component and factory tooling for our products in a timely manner if they are damaged or destroyed, could cause delays or reductions in product shipments. This could harm our relationships with our customers and cause our revenues to decline. Even if we are able to secure alternative sources or replace our tooling in a timely manner, our costs could increase. For the year ended October 31, 2006, over half of our component spending was for components we sourced from a single supplier or a small number of suppliers. Subsequent to our acquisition of Lipman, we have significant operations in Israel and therefore our results of operations may be adversely affected by political or economic instability or military operations in or around Israel. Following the Lipman acquisition, we have offices, a manufacturing facility and many of our suppliers in Israel. Therefore, political, economic and military conditions in Israel directly affect our operations. We cannot predict the effect on us of any increase in the degree of violence against Israel or the effect of military action elsewhere in the Middle East. During 2006, hostilities have escalated between Israel and Hamas in the Gaza Strip and between Israel and Hezbollah, based in Lebanon. The future of peace efforts between Israel and its Arab neighbors remains uncertain. Any armed conflicts or further political instability in the region is likely to negatively affect business conditions and adversely affect our results of operations. Furthermore, several countries continue to restrict or ban business with Israel and Israeli companies. These restrictive laws and policies may seriously limit our ability to make sales in those countries. In addition, many employees in Israel are obligated to perform at least 30 days and up to 40 days, depending on rank and position, of military reserve duty annually and are subject to being called for active duty under emergency circumstances. If a military conflict or war arises, these individuals could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. Our operations in Israel could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more key employees or a significant number of other employees due to military service. Any disruption in the operations could materially adversely affect our business. 20 We depend on our manufacturing and warehouse facility in Israel. If operations at this facility are interrupted for any reason, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We currently assemble and test a majority of our NURIT products and some of our Dione products at our manufacturing facility located in Israel and plan to produce other products there in the near future. Component and finished product inventories are also stored at this facility. Disruption of the manufacturing process at this facility or damage to it, whether as a result of fire, natural disaster, act of war, terrorist attack or otherwise, could materially affect our ability to deliver products on a timely basis and could materially adversely affect our results of operations. We also assemble some of our NURIT products in Brazil and Turkey and are reviewing the possibility of manufacturing in other countries. To the extent products are manufactured by third parties in additional countries, we may become more dependent on third party manufacturers to produce and deliver products sold in these markets on a timely basis and at an acceptable cost. We depend on a limited number of customers, including distributors and resellers, for sales of a large percentage of our System Solutions. If we do not effectively manage our relationships with them, our net revenues and operating results will suffer. We sell a significant portion of our solutions through third parties such as independent distributors, independent sales organizations, or ISOs, value-added resellers and payment processors. We depend on their active marketing and sales efforts. These third parties also provide after-sales support and related services to end user customers. When we introduce new applications and solutions, they also provide critical support for developing and porting the custom software applications to run on our various electronic payment systems and, internationally, in obtaining requisite certifications in the markets in which they are active. Accordingly, the pace at which we are able to introduce new solutions in markets in which these parties are active depends on the resources they dedicate to these tasks. Moreover, our arrangements with these third parties typically do not prevent them from selling products of other companies, including our competitors, and they may elect to market our competitors’ products and services in preference to our system solutions. If one or more of our major resellers terminates or otherwise adversely changes its relationship with us, we may be unsuccessful in replacing it. The loss of one of our major resellers could impair our ability to sell our solutions and result in lower revenues and income. It could also be time consuming and expensive to replicate, either directly or through other resellers, the certifications and the custom applications owned by these third parties. A significant percentage of our net revenues is attributable to a limited number of customers, including distributors and ISOs. For the year ended October 31, 2006, VeriFone’s ten largest customers accounted for approximately 36.1% of VeriFone’s net revenues and sales to First Data Corporation and its affiliates represented 13.0% of VeriFone’s net revenues in that period. Our sales of System Solutions to First Data and its affiliates include sales to its TASQ Technology division, which distributes payment devices to ISOs and financial institutions such as Wells Fargo & Company and Chase Merchant Services. For the year ended December 31, 2005 and the first three calendar months of 2006, Lipman’s ten largest customers accounted for approximately 46.3% and 47.2% of its revenues. If any of our large customers significantly reduces or delays purchases from us or if we are required to sell products to them at reduced prices or on other terms less favorable to us, our revenues and income could be materially adversely affected. A significant portion of our net revenues is generated outside of the United States and we intend to continue to expand our operations internationally. Our results of operations could suffer if we are unable to manage our international expansion and operations effectively. During the year ended October 31, 2006, 45.6% of VeriFone’s net revenues were generated outside of the United States. During the year ended December 31, 2005, 70.0% of Lipman’s revenues were generated 21 outside the United States and Israel. We expect our percentage of net revenues generated outside of the United States to increase materially in the coming years. Part of our strategy is to expand our penetration in existing foreign markets and to enter new foreign markets. Our ability to penetrate some international markets may be limited due to different technical standards, protocols or product requirements. Expansion of our international business will require significant management attention and financial resources. Our international net revenues will depend on our continued success in the following areas: · securing commercial relationships to help establish our presence in international markets; · hiring and training personnel capable of marketing, installing and integrating our solutions, supporting customers and managing operations in foreign countries; · localizing our solutions to target the specific needs and preferences of foreign customers, which may differ from our traditional customer base in the United States; · building our brand name and awareness of our services among foreign customers; and · implementing new systems, procedures and controls to monitor our operations in new markets. In addition, we are subject to risks associated with operating in foreign countries, including: · multiple, changing and often inconsistent enforcement of laws and regulations; · satisfying local regulatory or industry imposed security or other certification requirements; · competition from existing market participants that may have a longer history in and greater familiarity with the foreign markets we enter; · tariffs and trade barriers; · laws and business practices that favor local competitors; · fluctuations in currency exchange rates; · extended payment terms and the ability to collect account receivables; · economic and political instability in foreign countries; · imposition of limitations on conversion of foreign currencies into U.S. dollars or remittance of dividends and other payments by foreign subsidiaries; · changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions; and · greater difficulty in safeguarding intellectual property in areas such as China, Russia and Latin America. If we fail to address the challenges and risks associated with international expansion, we may encounter difficulties implementing our strategy, which could impede our growth or harm our operating results. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly as a result of factors outside of our control, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We expect our revenues and operating results to vary from quarter to quarter. As a consequence, our operating results in any single quarter may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Factors that may affect our operating results include: · the type, timing and size of orders and shipments; 22 · demand for and acceptance of our new product offerings; · delays in the implementation and delivery of our products and services, which may impact the timing of our recognition of revenues; · variations in product mix and cost during any period; · development of new relationships and maintenance and enhancement of existing relationships with customers and strategic partners; · component supplies, manufacturing or distribution difficulties; · deferral of customer contracts in anticipation of product or service enhancements; · timing of commencement, implementation or completion of major implementations projects; · the relative mix of North America and International net revenues; · fluctuations in currency exchange rates; · the fixed nature of many of our expenses; and · industry and economic conditions, including competitive pressures and inventory obsolescence. In particular, differences in relative growth rates between our businesses in North America and internationally may have a significant effect on our operating results, particularly our reported gross profit percentage, in any individual quarter, with International sales carrying lower margins. In addition, we have in the past and may continue to experience periodic variations in sales to our key vertical and international markets. These periodic variations occur throughout the year and may lead to fluctuations in our quarterly operating results depending on the impact of any given market during that quarter and could lead to volatility in our stock price. Our North American and International operations are not equally profitable, which may promote volatility in our earnings and may adversely impact future growth in our earnings. Our International sales tend to carry lower prices and therefore have lower gross margins than our sales in North America. As a result, if we successfully expand our International sales, any improvement in our results of operations will likely not be as favorable as an expansion of similar magnitude in the United States and Canada. In addition, it is impossible to predict for any future period our proportion of revenues that will result from International sales versus sales in North America. Variations in this proportion from period to period may lead to volatility in our results of operations which, in turn, may depress the trading price of our common stock. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations. A substantial part of our business consists of sales made to customers outside the United States. A portion of the net revenues we receive from such sales is denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Additionally, portions of our cost of net revenues and our other operating expenses are incurred by our International operations and denominated in local currencies. While fluctuations in the value of these net revenues, costs and expenses as measured in U.S. dollars have not materially affected our results of operations historically, we cannot assure you that adverse currency exchange rate fluctuations will not have a material impact in the future. In addition, our balance sheet reflects non-U.S. dollar denominated assets and liabilities, primarily inter-company balances, which can be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We have entered into foreign currency forward contracts and other arrangements intended to hedge our exposure to adverse fluctuations in exchange rates. Nevertheless, these hedging 23 arrangements may not always be effective, particularly in the event of imprecise forecasts of non-U.S. denominated assets and liabilities. Accordingly, if there is an adverse movement in exchange rates, we might suffer significant losses. Additionally, hedging programs expose us to risks that could adversely affect our operating results, including the following: · we may be unable to hedge currency risk for some transactions because of a high level of uncertainty or the inability to reasonably estimate our foreign exchange exposures; and · we may be unable to acquire foreign exchange hedging instruments in some of the geographic areas where we do business, or, where these derivatives are available, we may not be able to acquire enough of them to fully offset our exposure. Security is vital to our customers and end users and therefore breaches in the security of our solutions could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations. Protection against fraud is of key importance to the purchasers and end users of our solutions. We incorporate security features, such as encryption software and secure hardware, into our solutions to protect against fraud in electronic payment transactions and to ensure the privacy and integrity of consumer data. Our solutions may be vulnerable to breaches in security due to defects in the security mechanisms, the operating system and applications or the hardware platform. Security vulnerabilities could jeopardize the security of information transmitted or stored using our solutions. In general, liability associated with security breaches of a certified electronic payment system belongs to the institution that acquires the financial transaction. However, if the security of our solutions is compromised, our reputation and marketplace acceptance of our solutions will be adversely affected, which would cause our business to suffer, and we may become subject to damage claims. We have not experienced any material security breaches affecting our business. Our solutions may have defects that could result in sales delays, delays in our collection of receivables and claims against us. We offer complex solutions that are susceptible to undetected hardware and software errors or failures. Solutions may experience failures when first introduced, as new versions are released or at any time during their lifecycle. Any product recalls as a result of errors or failures could result in the loss of or delay in market acceptance of our solutions and adversely affect our business and reputation. Any significant returns or warranty claims could result in significant additional costs to us and could adversely affect our results of operations. Our customers may also run third-party software applications on our electronic payment systems. Errors in third-party applications could adversely affect the performance of our solutions. The existence of defects and delays in correcting them could result in negative consequences, including the following: harm to our brand; delays in shipping solutions; loss of market acceptance for our solutions; additional warranty expenses; diversion of resources from product development; and loss of credibility with distributors and customers. Correcting defects can be time consuming and in some circumstances extremely difficult. Software errors may take several months to correct, and hardware defects may take even longer to correct. We may accumulate excess or obsolete inventory that could result in unanticipated price reductions and write-downs and adversely affect our financial condition. In formulating our solutions, we have focused our efforts on providing to our customers solutions with higher levels of functionality, which requires us to develop and incorporate cutting edge and evolving technologies. This approach tends to increase the risk of obsolescence for products and components we 24 hold in inventory and may compound the difficulties posed by other factors that affect our inventory levels, including the following: · the need to maintain significant inventory of components that are in limited supply; · buying components in bulk for the best pricing; · responding to the unpredictable demand for products; · cancellation of customer orders; and · responding to customer requests for quick delivery schedules. As a result of these factors, we regularly run the risk of maintaining excess inventory levels. This risk may be enhanced to the extent we increase inventory levels in response to expected customer requirements. The accumulation of excess or obsolete inventory may result in price reductions and inventory write-downs, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. VeriFone incurred an obsolescence cost of $3.5 million for the year ended October 31, 2006, primarily as a result of discontinued and legacy financial and retail products and check readers, and established a reserve for certain memory components that are high risk in nature as they are no longer used in manufacturing and are only being held as future repair stock. For the year ended October 31, 2005, VeriFone incurred an obsolescence cost of $4.3 million primarily as a result of the customers shifting to the new Vx Solutions, our latest generation of system solutions, employing a 32-bit ARM9 System-on-Chip running our Verix operating system which provides a consistent user interface and secure multi-application platform across several payment systems. Technological changes and evolving technological and industry standards are resulting in shorter life cycles for inventory. Shorter life cycles could also cause decreases in selling price, inventory write-offs and a lower rate of return on our research and development expenditures, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our proprietary technology is difficult to protect and unauthorized use of our proprietary technology by third parties may impair our ability to compete effectively. We may not be able to protect our proprietary technology, which could enable competitors to develop services that compete with our own. We rely on copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality, licensing and other contractual arrangements to establish and protect the proprietary aspects of our solutions. We do not own any patents that protect important aspects of our current solutions. The laws of some countries in which we sell our solutions and services may not protect software and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws in the United States. If we are unable to prevent misappropriation of our technology, competitors may be able to use and adapt our technology. Our failure to protect our technology could diminish our competitive advantage and cause us to lose customers to competitors. Our business may suffer if we are sued for infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties, or if we are unable to obtain rights to third party intellectual property on which we depend. Third parties have in the past asserted and may in the future assert claims that we are infringing their proprietary rights. Such infringement claims may cause us to incur significant costs in defending those claims. We may be required to discontinue using and selling any infringing technology and services, to expend resources to develop non-infringing technology or to purchase licenses or pay royalties for other technology. Similarly, we depend on our ability to license intellectual property from third parties. These or other third parties may become unwilling to license to us on acceptable terms intellectual property that is necessary to our business. In either case, we may be unable to acquire licenses for other technology on reasonable commercial terms or at all. As a result, we may find that we are unable to continue to offer the solutions and services upon which our business depends. 25 We have received, and have currently pending, third-party claims and may receive additional notices of such claims of infringement in the future. Infringement claims may cause us to incur significant costs in defending those claims. For example, during 2005, VeriFone incurred approximately $1.2 million and Lipman incurred approximately $1.5 million in expenses in connection with the defense and settlement of proceedings brought by Verve L.L.C. Infringement claims are expensive and time consuming to defend, regardless of the merits or ultimate outcome. Similar claims may result in additional protracted and costly litigation. There can be no assurance that we will continue to prevail in any such actions or that any license required under any such patent or other intellectual property would be made available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. See “Item 3—Legal Proceedings.” We are exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims that may harm our operating results or financial condition. In the ordinary course of our business, we are subject to periodic lawsuits, investigations and claims. Although we cannot predict with certainty the ultimate resolution of lawsuits, investigations and claims asserted- against us, we do not believe that any currently pending legal proceeding to which we are a party is likely to have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Our Brazilian subsidiary has been notified of a tax assessment regarding Brazilian state value added tax, or VAT, for the periods from January 2000 to December 2001 that relates to products supplied to us by a contract manufacturer. The assessment relates to an asserted deficiency of 7.4 million Brazilian reais (approximately $3.4 million) including interest and penalties. The tax assessment was based on a clerical error in which our Brazilian subsidiary omitted the required tax exemption number on its invoices. On May 25, 2005, we had an administrative hearing with respect to this audit. Management expects to receive the decision of the administrative judges sometime in 2007. In the event we receive an adverse ruling from the administrative body, we will decide whether or not to appeal and would reexamine the determination as to whether an accrual is necessary. On December 11, 2006, we received a civil investigative demand from the Department of Justice regarding an investigation into our acquisition of Lipman which requests certain documents principally with respect to the companies’ integration plans and communications prior to the completion of this acquisition. Although we have commenced the process of gathering documents in response to this request, we cannot predict what actions, if any, will result from this investigation. We depend on a limited number of key members of senior management who would be difficult to replace. If we lose the services of these individuals or are unable to attract new talent, our business will be adversely affected. We depend upon the ability and experience of a number of our key members of senior management who have substantial experience with our operations, the rapidly changing electronic payment transaction industry and the selected markets in which we offer our solutions. The loss of the services of one or a combination of our senior executives or key managers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, manage and retain other qualified middle management and technical and clerical personnel as we grow. We may not be able to continue to attract or retain such personnel in the future. Shipments of electronic payment systems may be delayed by factors outside of our control, which can harm our reputation and our relationships with our customers. The shipment of payment systems requires us or our manufacturers, distributors or other agents to obtain customs or other government certifications and approvals, and, on occasion, to submit to physical inspection of our systems in transit. Failure to satisfy these requirements, and the very process of trying to 26 satisfy them, can lead to lengthy delays in the delivery of our solutions to our direct or indirect customers. Delays and unreliable delivery by us may harm our reputation in the industry and our relationships with our customers. Force majeure events, such as terrorist attacks, other acts of violence or war, political instability and health epidemics may adversely affect us. Terrorist attacks, war and international political instability, along with health epidemics may disrupt our ability to generate revenues. Such events may negatively affect our ability to maintain sales revenues and to develop new business relationships. Because a substantial and growing part of our revenues is derived from sales and services to customers outside of the United States and we have our electronic payment systems manufactured outside the U.S., terrorist attacks, war and international political instability anywhere may decrease international demand for our products and inhibit customer development opportunities abroad, disrupt our supply chain and impair our ability to deliver our electronic payment systems, which could materially adversely affect our net revenues or results of operations. Any of these events may also disrupt global financial markets and precipitate a decline in the price of our common stock. We are required to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and are exposed to future risks of non-compliance. We are required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Such report contains, among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. Such report must also contain a statement that our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on management’s assessment of such internal control. The Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”) provides a framework for companies to assess and improve their internal control systems. Auditing Standard No. 2 provides the professional standards and related performance guidance for independent registered public accounting firms to attest to, and report on, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting under Section 404. Management’s assessment of internal control over financial reporting requires management to make subjective judgments, and particularly because Auditing Standard No. 2 is newly effective, some of the judgments will be in areas that may be open to interpretation, and therefore, the report may be uniquely difficult to prepare, and our independent registered public accounting firm may not agree with our assessments. We completed the evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2006. Our assessment, testing and evaluation resulted in our conclusion that as of October 31, 2006, our internal control over financial reporting was effective. However, our controls, nonetheless, may not prove to be adequate for the periods covered by that report and, in any event, we cannot predict the outcome of our testing in future periods. If our internal controls are ineffective in future periods, our financial results or the market price of our stock could be adversely affected. In any event, we will incur additional expenses and commitment of management’s time in connection with further evaluations, which may adversely affect our future operating results and financial condition. 27 While we believe we comply with environmental laws and regulations, we are still exposed to potential risks associated with environmental laws and regulations We are subject to other legal and regulatory requirements, including a European Union directive that places restrictions on the use of hazardous substances (RoHS) in electronic equipment and a European Union directive on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE). RoHS sets a framework for producers’ obligations in relation to manufacturing (including the amounts of named hazardous substances contained in products sold) and WEEE sets a framework for treatment, labeling, recovery and recycling of electronic products in the European Union which may require us to alter the manufacturing of the physical devices that include our solutions and/or require active steps to promote recycling of materials and components. Although the WEEE directive has been adopted by the European Commission, national legislation to implement the directive is still pending in the member states of the European Union. In addition, similar legislation could be enacted in other jurisdictions, including in the United States. If we do not comply with the RoHS and WEEE directive, we may suffer a loss of revenue, be unable to sell in certain markets or countries, be subject to penalties and enforced fees and/or suffer a competitive disadvantage. Furthermore, the costs to comply with RoHS and WEEE, or with current and future environmental and worker health and safety laws may have a material adverse effect on our results of operation, expenses and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Industry Our markets are highly competitive and subject to price erosion. The markets for our system solutions and services are highly competitive, and we have been subject to price pressures. Competition from manufacturers, distributors or providers of products similar to or competitive with our system solutions or services could result in price reductions, reduced margins and a loss of market share or could render our solutions obsolete. We expect to continue to experience significant and increasing levels of competition in the future. We compete with suppliers of cash registers that provide built in electronic payment capabilities and producers of software that facilitates electronic payment over the internet, as well as other manufacturers or distributors of electronic payment systems. We must also compete with smaller companies that have been able to develop strong local or regional customer bases. In certain foreign countries, some competitors are more established, benefit from greater name recognition and have greater resources within those countries than we do. If we do not continually enhance our existing solutions and develop and market new solutions and enhancements, our net revenues and income will be adversely affected. The market for electronic payment systems is characterized by: · rapid technological change; · frequent product introductions and enhancements; · evolving industry and government performance and security standards; and · changes in customer and end-user requirements. Because of these factors, we must continually enhance our existing solutions and develop and market new solutions. We cannot be sure that we will successfully complete the development and introduction of new solutions or enhancements or that our new solutions will be accepted in the marketplace. We may also fail to develop and deploy new solutions and enhancements on a timely basis. In either case, we may lose market share to our competitors, and our net revenues and income could suffer. 28 We must adhere to industry and government regulations and standards and therefore sales will suffer if we cannot comply with them. Our system solutions must meet industry standards imposed by EMV Co, Visa, MasterCard and other credit card associations and standard setting organizations. New standards are continually being adopted or proposed as a result of worldwide anti-fraud initiatives, the increasing need for system compatibility and technology developments such as wireless and wireline IP communication. Our solutions also must comply with government regulations, including those imposed by telecommunications authorities and independent standards groups worldwide regarding emissions, radiation and connections with telecommunications and radio networks. We cannot be sure that we will be able to design our solutions to comply with future standards or regulations on a timely basis, if at all. Compliance with these standards could increase the cost of developing or producing our solutions. New products designed to meet any new standards need to be introduced to the market and ordinarily need to be certified by the credit card associations and our customers before being purchased. The certification process is costly and time consuming and increases the amount of time it takes to sell our products. Our business and financial condition could be adversely affected if we cannot comply with new or existing industry standards, or obtain or retain necessary regulatory approval or certifications in a timely fashion, or if compliance results in increasing the cost of our products. Selling products that are non-compliant may result in fines against us or our customers, which we may be liable to pay. Risks Related to Our Capital Structure Our secured credit facility contains restrictive and financial covenants and, if we are unable to comply with these covenants, we will be in default. A default could result in the acceleration of our outstanding indebtedness, which would have an adverse effect on our business and stock price. In connection with the Lipman acquisition, we entered into a new secured term loan and revolving credit facility. We drew $192.9 million of the term loan on October 31, 2006 to repay our existing credit facility and pay fees and expenses. We drew the remainder of the term loan on November 1, 2006, to pay a portion of the cash purchase price for Lipman. As of November 1, 2006, we had outstanding indebtedness under this new facility of $500 million. This new credit facility replaced our previous secured credit facility with a syndicate of banks. Our new secured credit facility contains customary covenants that require our subsidiaries to maintain certain specified financial ratios and restrict their ability to make certain distributions with respect to their capital stock, prepay other debt, encumber their assets, incur additional indebtedness, make capital expenditures above specified levels, engage in certain business combinations, or undertake various other corporate activities. Therefore, as a practical matter, these covenants restrict our ability to engage in or benefit from such activities. In addition, we have, in order to secure repayment of our secured credit facility, pledged substantially all of our assets and properties. This pledge may reduce our operating flexibility because it restricts our ability to dispose of these assets or engage in other transactions that may be beneficial to us. If we are unable to comply with any of these covenants, we will be in default, which could result in the acceleration of our outstanding indebtedness. If acceleration occurred, we would not be able to repay our debt and it is unlikely that we would be able to borrow sufficient additional funds to refinance our debt. Even if new financing is made available to us, it may not be available on acceptable terms. Our indebtedness and debt service obligations will increase under new secured credit facility, which may adversely affect our cash flow, cash position and stock price. We intend to fulfill our debt service obligations under our new secured credit facility from existing cash, investments and operations. In the future, if we are unable to generate cash or raise additional cash 29 financings sufficient to meet these obligations and need to use more of our existing cash than planned or to liquidate investments in order to fund these obligations, we may have to delay or curtail the development and or the sales and marketing of new payment systems. Our new indebtedness could have significant additional negative consequences, including, without limitation: · requiring the dedication of a significant portion of our expected cash flow to service the indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of expected cash flow available for other purposes, including capital expenditures; · increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic conditions; · limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; and · placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources. GTCR has substantial influence over our operations, which will limit our other stockholders’ ability to influence corporate activities and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. GTCR beneficially owns or controls shares representing, in the aggregate, an approximate 28.6% voting interest in our company as of October 31, 2006 and 23.8% after Lipman acquisition and two of the eight members on our board of directors are affiliated with GTCR. Accordingly, GTCR may exercise substantial influence over our operations and business strategy. In addition, GTCR will have substantial influence over the outcome of votes on all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. GTCR may also exercise control, with respect to mergers or other business combinations that involve a change in control of us, under a stockholders agreement among us, GTCR and certain other stockholders. Subject to specified conditions, that agreement requires the stockholders who are parties to it to consent to a sale of VeriFone Holdings, Inc. to a non-affiliate of GTCR if the sale is approved by the holders of a majority of the shares subject to the agreement. Certain information concerning related party is incorporated by reference from the information contained under the caption “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” in our Proxy Statement for 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. GTCR’s ownership or control may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us or discouraging others from making tender offers for our shares, which could prevent stockholders from receiving a premium for their shares. These actions may be taken even if other stockholders oppose them. Conflicts of interest may arise because some of our directors are principals of our significant stockholder. Two principals of GTCR serve on our board of directors, which currently has eight members. GTCR and its affiliates may invest in entities that directly or indirectly compete with us or companies in which they currently invest may begin competing with us. As a result of these relationships, when conflicts between the interests of GTCR and the interests of our other stockholders arise, these directors may not be disinterested. Although our directors and officers have a duty of loyalty to us, under Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation, transactions that we enter into in which a director or officer that is a representative of GTCR has a conflict of interest are generally permissible so long as (1) the material facts relating to the director’s or officer’s relationship or interest as to the transaction are disclosed to our board of directors and a majority of our disinterested directors approves the transaction, (2) the material facts relating to the director’s or officer’s relationship or interest as to the transaction are disclosed to our stockholders and a majority of our disinterested stockholders approves the transaction, or (3) the transaction is otherwise fair to us. GTCR’s representatives will not be required to offer to us any 30 transaction opportunity of which they become aware and could take any such opportunity for themselves or offer it to other companies in which they have an investment, unless such opportunity is expressly offered to them solely in their capacity as a director of us. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may delay or prevent transactions that many stockholders may favor. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying, discouraging or preventing a merger or acquisition that our stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might receive a premium for their shares. These provisions include: · authorization of the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock without the need for action by stockholders; · the removal of directors or amendment of our organizational documents only by the affirmative vote of the holders of two-thirds of the shares of our capital stock entitled to vote; · provision that any vacancy on the board of directors, however occurring, including a vacancy resulting from an enlargement of the board, may only be filled by vote of the directors then in office; · inability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; and · advance notice requirements for board nominations and proposing matters to be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. Our common stock has only been publicly traded since April 29, 2005 and we expect that the price of our common stock will fluctuate substantially. There has only been a public market for our common stock since April 29, 2005. Broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Factors that could cause fluctuations in our stock price may include, among other things: · actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; · changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts who might cover our stock, or our failure to meet the estimates made by securities analysts; · changes in the market valuations of other companies operating in our industry; · announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures; · additions or departures of key personnel; · sales of VeriFone’s common stock by Lipman shareholders receiving VeriFone common stock in the merger; and · sales of our common stock, including sales of our common stock by our directors and officers or by GTCR or our other principal stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 31 