Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves risks. The risks described below, should be considered in conjunction with the other information, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. If any of the following risks or other risks, which have not been identified or which we may believe are immaterial or unlikely, actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. In such a case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and shareholders may lose all or part of their investment. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Risks Related to Our Business We could suffer loan losses from a decline in credit quality. We could sustain losses if borrowers, guarantors and related parties fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. We have adopted underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and policies, including the establishment and review of the allowance for credit losses that we believe are appropriate to minimize this risk by assessing the likelihood of nonperformance, tracking loan performance and diversifying our credit portfolio. These policies and procedures, however, may not prevent unexpected losses that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. 14 Our reliance on time deposits, including out-of-market certificates of deposit, as a source of funds for loans and our other liquidity needs could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Among other sources of funds, we rely heavily on deposits for funds to make loans and to provide for our other liquidity needs. However, our loan demand has exceeded the rate at which we have been able to build core deposits, so we have relied heavily on time deposits, including out-of-market certificates of deposit, as a source of funds. Out-of-market certificates of deposit as of December 31, 2007 represented 40.2% of our total deposits. Those deposits may not be as stable as other types of deposits and, in the future, depositors may not renew those time deposits when they mature, or we may have to pay a higher rate of interest to attract, keep or to replace them with other deposits or with funds from other sources. Not being able to attract time deposits, or to keep or replace them as they mature, would adversely affect our liquidity. Paying higher deposit rates to attract, keep or replace those deposits could have a negative effect on our net interest margin and results of operations. If the value of real estate in our core market were to decline materially, a significant portion of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. With most of our loans concentrated in central Georgia, a decline in local economic conditions could adversely affect the values of our real estate collateral. Consequently, a decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are geographically diverse. In addition to considering the financial strength and cash flow characteristics of borrowers, we often secure loans with real estate collateral. At December 31, 2007, approximately 88.8% of our loans had real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. Lack of seasoning of our loan portfolio may increase the risk of credit defaults in the future. Due to the rapid growth of the bank over the past several years and our short operating history, a large portion of the loans in our loan portfolio and our lending relationships are of relatively recent origin. In general, loans do not begin to show signs of credit deterioration or default until they have been outstanding for some period of time, a process we refer to as “seasoning.” As a result, a portfolio of older loans will usually behave more predictably than a newer loan portfolio. Because our loan portfolio is relatively new, the current level of delinquencies and defaults may not be representative of the level that will prevail when the portfolio becomes more seasoned, which may be higher than current levels. If delinquencies and defaults increase, we may be required to increase our provision for loan losses, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. An economic downturn, especially one affecting our market areas, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our success depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in our primary market areas. If the communities in which we operate do not grow, or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, our business may not succeed. Unpredictable economic conditions may have an adverse effect on the quality of our loan portfolio and our financial performance. Economic recession over a prolonged period or other economic problems in our market areas could have a material adverse impact on the quality of the loan portfolio and the demand for our products and services. Future adverse changes in the economies in our market areas may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Further, the banking industry in Georgia is affected by general economic conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment and other factors beyond our control. As a community bank, we are less able to spread the risk of unfavorable local economic conditions than larger or more regional banks. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas even if they do occur. 15 Declines in real estate values have adversely affected our credit quality and profitability. During 2007, confidence in the credit market for residential housing finance eroded, which resulted in a reduction in financing available to buyers of new homes and borrowers wishing to refinance existing financing terms. The tightening of credit for residential housing led to lower demand for residential housing and more foreclosures, and has reduced the absorption rate for new and existing properties. In turn, this has caused market prices to fall as some property owners, including lenders who acquired property by foreclosure, have accepted lower prices to reduce their exposure to these real estate assets which has reduced the market values for comparable real estate. The declines in values and the increased level of marketing required to sell properties has reduced or eliminated the potential profits to many of the builders and developers of properties to whom we have extended loans. As a result, some of these borrowers have been unable to repay their loans in accordance with their terms, which has led to an increase in our past due and non-performing loans. If these housing trends continue or exacerbate, the Company expects that it will continue to experience increased delinquencies and credit losses. Moreover, if a recession occurs that negatively impacts economic conditions in the United States as a whole or in specific regions of the country, the Company would experience significantly higher delinquencies and credit losses. An increase in credit losses would reduce earnings and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition. Furthermore, to the extent that real estate collateral is obtained through foreclosure, the costs of holding and marketing the real estate collateral, as well as the ultimate values obtained from disposition, could reduce the Company’s earnings and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition. The Company’s business volume and growth is affected by the rate of growth and demand for housing in specific geographic markets. Based on the activity discussed above, the Company expects that its level of historical growth could be significantly curtailed and its assets may in fact shrink, depending on the duration and extent of the current disruption in the housing and mortgage markets. The current disruption may expand and adversely impact the U.S. economy in general and the housing and mortgage markets in particular. In addition, a variety of legislative, regulatory and other proposals have been discussed or may be introduced in an effort to address the disruption. Depending on the scope and nature of legislative, regulatory or other initiatives, if any, that are adopted to respond to this disruption and applied to the Company, its financial condition, results of operations or liquidity could, directly or indirectly, benefit or be adversely affected in a manner that could be material to its business. Additional growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We anticipate our capital resources following this offering will satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We may at some point, however, need to raise additional capital to support our continued growth. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot be assured of our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations could be materially impaired. Competition from other financial institutions may adversely affect our profitability. The banking business is highly competitive, and we experience strong competition from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds and other financial institutions, which operate in our primary market areas and elsewhere. Presently 17 banks serve our central Georgia service area with a total of 93 branches, 28 banks serve our coastal Georgia service area with a total of 155 branches, and 16 banks serve Lowndes County with a total of 36 branches. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we have to attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Many of our competitors are well-established and much larger financial institutions. While we believe we can and do successfully compete with these other financial institutions in our markets, we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size and lack of geographic diversification. 16 Although we compete by concentrating our marketing efforts in our primary market areas with local advertisements, personal contacts and greater flexibility in working with local customers, we can give no assurance that this strategy will be successful. Opening new offices may not result in increased assets or revenues for us. We intend to establish two new offices over the next 12 months. The investment necessary for these branch expansions may negatively impact our efficiency ratio. There is a risk that we will be unable to manage our growth, as the process of opening new branches may divert our time and resources. There is also risk that we may fail to open any additional branches, and a risk that, if we do open these branches, they may not be profitable which would negatively impact our results of operations. Our plans for future expansion depend, in some instances, on factors beyond our control, and an unsuccessful attempt to achieve growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. We expect to continue to engage in new branch expansion in the future. We may also seek to acquire other financial institutions, or parts of those institutions. Expansion involves a number of risks, including: · the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring experienced local management and opening new offices; · the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion; · we may not be able to finance an acquisition without diluting the interests of our existing shareholders; · the diversion of our management’s attention to the negotiation of a transaction may detract from their business productivity; · we may enter into new markets where we lack experience; and · we may introduce new products and services with which we have no prior experience into our business. Our recent results may not be indicative of our future results, and may not provide guidance to assess the risk of an investment in our common stock. We may not be able to sustain our historical rate of growth or may not even be able to grow our business at all. In addition, our recent and rapid growth may distort some of our historical financial ratios and statistics. In the future, we may not have the benefit of several recently favorable factors, such as a generally increasing interest rate environment, a strong residential mortgage market or the ability to find suitable expansion opportunities. Various factors, such as economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations and competition, may also impede or prohibit our ability to expand our market presence. If we experience a significant decrease in our historical rate of growth, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected due to a high percentage of our operating costs being fixed expenses. If we fail to manage our past growth effectively, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected. We experienced significant growth in 2007, with our assets increasing $181.4 million or 27%, from December 31, 2006. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies that have experienced this type of growth. Failure to manage our past growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or future prospects, and could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. 17 Our business strategy includes the continuation of growth plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively. We intend to continue pursuing a growth strategy for our business. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in growth stages of development. We cannot assure you we will be able to expand our market presence in our existing markets or successfully enter new markets or that any such expansion will not adversely affect our results of operations. Failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or future prospects, and could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. Also, if our growth occurs more slowly than anticipated or declines, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our ability to grow successfully will depend on a variety of factors including the continued availability of desirable business opportunities, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in our market areas and our ability to manage our growth. While we believe we have the management resources and internal systems in place to manage our future growth, there can be no assurance that growth opportunities will be available or growth will be managed successfully. Our access to additional short term funding to meet our liquidity needs is limited. We must maintain, on a daily basis, sufficient funds to cover withdrawals from depositors’ accounts and to supply new borrowers with funds. We routinely monitor asset and liability maturities in an attempt to match maturities to meet liquidity needs. To meet our cash obligations, we rely on repayments as asset mature, keep cash on hand, maintain account balances with correspondent banks, purchase and sell federal funds, purchase brokered deposits and maintain a line of credit with the Federal Home Loan Bank. If we are unable to meet our liquidity needs through loan and other asset repayments and our cash on hand, we may need to borrow additional funds. Currently, our access to additional borrowed funds is limited and we may be required to pay above market rates for additional borrowed funds, which may adversely our results of operations. Holders of our junior subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of our common stockholders. We have supported our continued growth by issuing trust preferred securities from a special purpose trust and accompanying junior subordinated debentures. At December 31, 2007, we had outstanding trust preferred securities totaling $10.3 million. We unconditionally guaranteed the payment of principal and interest on the trust preferred securities. Also, the junior debentures we issued to the special purpose trust that relate to those trust preferred securities are senior to our common stock. As a result, we must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures before we can pay any dividends on our common stock. In the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, holders of our junior subordinated debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on our common stock. We do have the right to defer distributions on our junior subordinated debentures (and related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, but during that time we would not be able to pay dividends on our common stock. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, which may require us to take a charge to our earnings and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. We maintain an allowance for estimated loan losses that we believe is adequate for absorbing any probable losses in our loan portfolio. Management determines the provision for loan losses based upon an analysis of general market conditions, credit quality of our loan portfolio, and performance of our customers relative to their financial obligations with us. We employ an outside vendor specializing in credit risk management to evaluate our loan portfolio for risk grading, which can result in changes in our allowance for estimated loan losses. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating, and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, that may be beyond our control, and such losses may exceed the allowance for estimated loan losses. Although management believes that the allowance for estimated loan losses is adequate to absorb any probable losses on existing loans that may become uncollectible, there can be no assurance that the allowance will prove sufficient to cover actual loan losses in the future. Significant increases to the provision for loan losses may be necessary if material adverse changes in general economic conditions occur or the performance of our loan portfolio deteriorates. Additionally, federal banking regulators, as an integral part of their supervisory function, periodically 18 review the allowance for estimated loan losses. If these regulatory agencies require us to increase the allowance for estimated loan losses, it would have a negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to retain our key employees, our growth and profitability could be adversely affected. Our success is, and is expected to remain highly dependent on our executive management team, consisting of Mark A. Stevens, Gary P. Hall, Carol Soto and Brandon L. Mercer. This is particularly true because, as a community bank, we depend on our management team’s ties to the community to generate business for us. Our growth will continue to place significant demands on our management, and the loss of any such person’s services may have an adverse effect upon our growth and profitability. Our corporate culture has contributed to our success, and if we cannot maintain this culture as we grow, we could lose the teamwork and increased productivity fostered by our culture, which could harm our business. We believe that a critical contributor to our success has been our corporate culture, which we believe fosters teamwork and increased productivity. As our organization grows and we are required to implement more complex management structures, we may find it increasingly difficult to maintain the beneficial aspects of our corporate culture. This could negatively impact our future success. Our ability to pay dividends is limited and we may be unable to pay future dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock may be your sole opportunity for gains on your investment for the foreseeable future. We make no assurances that we will pay any dividends in the future. Any future determination relating to dividend policy will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on a number of factors, including our future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, future prospects, regulatory restrictions and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant. The holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends when, and if declared by our Board of Directors out of funds legally available for that purpose. As part of our consideration to pay cash dividends, we intend to retain adequate funds from future earnings to support the development and growth of our business. In addition, our ability to pay dividends is restricted by federal policies and regulations. It is the policy of the Federal Reserve Board that bank holding companies should pay cash dividends on common stock only out of net income available over the past year and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s expected future needs and financial condition. Further, our principal source of funds to pay dividends is cash dividends that we receive from the bank. As a community bank, we have different lending risks than larger banks. We provide services to our local communities. Our ability to diversify our economic risks is limited by our own local markets and economies. We lend primarily to small to medium-sized businesses, and, to a lesser extent, individuals which may expose us to greater lending risks than those of banks lending to larger, better-capitalized businesses with longer operating histories. We manage our credit exposure through careful monitoring of loan applicants and loan concentrations in particular industries, and through loan approval and review procedures. We have established an evaluation process designed to determine the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses. While this evaluation process uses historical and other objective information, the classification of loans and the establishment of loan losses is an estimate based on experience, judgment and expectations regarding our borrowers, the economies in which we and our borrowers operate, as well as the judgment of our regulators. We cannot assure you that our loan loss reserves will be sufficient to absorb future loan losses or prevent a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. 19 A significant portion of our loans are located outside of our primary market area where our ability to oversee such loans directly is limited. Because approximately 13.8% of our loans are located outside of our primary market area, our senior management’s ability to oversee these loans directly is limited. We may also be unable to properly understand local market conditions or promptly react to local market pressures. Any failure on our part to properly supervise these out-of-market loans could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Hurricanes or other adverse weather events could negatively affect our local economies or disrupt our operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. The economy of Georgia’s coastal region is affected, from time to time, by adverse weather events, particularly hurricanes. Our Savannah market area consists primarily of coastal communities, and we cannot predict whether, or to what extent, damage caused by future hurricanes will affect our operations, our customers or the economies in our banking markets. However, weather events could cause a decline in loan originations, destruction or decline in the value of properties securing our loans, or an increase in the risks of delinquencies, foreclosures and loan losses. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, which could adversely affect our business and the trading price of our stock. We are currently in the process of evaluating our internal controls system to allow management to report on, and our independent auditors to audit, our internal controls over financial reporting. We will be performing the system and process evaluations and testing (and any necessary remediation) required to comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. These systems are necessary to produce accurate financial reports and prevent fraudulent activity. We are required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; however, we may identify control deficiencies of varying degrees of severity under applicable SEC and Public Company Accounting Oversight Board rules and regulations that remain unremediated. As a reporting company, we are required to report, among other things, control deficiencies that constitute a “material weakness” or changes in internal controls that, or are reasonably likely to, materially affect internal controls over financial reporting. A “material weakness” is a significant deficiency, or combination of significant deficiencies that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. If we fail to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities such as the SEC. In addition, if any material weakness or deficiency is identified or is not remedied, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy of our reported financial information, and our stock price could be significantly adversely affected as a result. Risks Related to Our Industry Our profitability is vulnerable to interest rate fluctuations. Our profitability depends substantially upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between the interest earned on assets, such as loans and investment securities, and the interest paid for liabilities, such as savings and time deposits and out-of-market certificates of deposit. Market interest rates for loans, investments and deposits are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control. Recently, interest rate spreads have generally narrowed due to changing market conditions, policies of various government and regulatory authorities and competitive pricing pressures, and we cannot predict whether these rate spreads will narrow even further. This narrowing of interest rate spreads could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we cannot predict whether interest rates will continue to remain at present levels. Changes in interest rates may cause significant changes, up or down, in our net interest income. Depending on our portfolio of loans and investments, our results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. 20 Current trends in the mortgage loan markets are adversely affecting our credit quality and profitability. Since the beginning of 2007, the market has seen several subprime lenders and hedge funds that had invested in loans supported by real estate collateral declare bankruptcy and discontinue operations, while other lenders have continued to put in place more stringent underwriting criteria. Recent losses on mortgage-backed investment securities recorded by some larger financial institutions have resulted in reduced valuations, demand and liquidity for these securities. These challenges have affected the mortgage loan marketplace by increasing the borrower’s cost of funds for loan supported by real estate. More stringent loan underwriting standards continue to reduce the number of real estate borrowers who can find financing in the marketplace, and this continues to reduce the number of properties sold and refinanced. The number of residential properties on the market has continued to increase, and in certain markets including our own, there has been increasing downward pressure on the selling prices of new and existing homes and also in the sales market values of existing properties, which are utilized as comparisons in valuing real estate collateral. This affects the ability of some borrowers, particularly those in construction and development, to sell the properties securing their loans, which in turn makes it difficult for them to make the scheduled repayments on those loans. The impact of the described changes in the economy as a whole, and the real estate marketplace specifically, has had a negative effect on our ability to grow our loan levels and on the values of the collateral underlying our loans. These changes could limit growth in interest income and could also cause an increase in expenses associated with collecting on loans, foreclosing on real estate collateral, and selling properties that have already been foreclosed. The potential impact on the Company will depend on the duration and depth of the real estate market downturn, which will also be affected by the financial market’s response to correcting the problems that have affected the market, including providing accommodations to borrowers in default or who are experiencing financial difficulty. Continuing weakness in residential property values and mortgage loan markets could adversely affect us. Recent weakness in the secondary market for residential lending could have an adverse impact upon our profitability. Pricing may change rapidly impacting the value of loans in our warehouse and our portfolio. This has been most pronounced in residential construction and development loans and in the subprime and Alt-A lending. The turmoil in the mortgage markets, combined with the ongoing correction in real estate markets, could result in further price reductions in single family home prices and lack of liquidity in refinancing markets. These factors could adversely impact the quality of our residential construction and residential mortgage portfolio in various ways, including creating discrepancies in value between the original appraisal and the value at time of sale, and by decreasing the value of the collateral for our mortgage loans. We also have a significant amount of loans on one-to-four family residential properties, which are secured principally by single-family residences. Loans of this type are generally smaller in size and geographically dispersed throughout our market area. Losses on the residential loan portfolio depend to large degree, on the level of interest rates, the unemployment rate, economic conditions and collateral values, and are therefore difficult to predict. Additionally, we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify mortgage loan purchasers as a result of certain borrower defaults, which could harm our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. When we sell mortgage loans, whether as whole loans or pursuant to a securitization, we are required to make customary representations and warranties to the purchaser about the mortgage loans and the manner in which they were originated. Our whole loan sale agreements sometimes require us to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans in the event we breach any of these representations or warranties. In addition, we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans in the event of early payment default of the borrower on a mortgage loan. While we have taken steps to enhance our underwriting policies and procedures, there is no assurance that these steps will be effective nor impact risk associated with loans sold in the past. If repurchase demands increase, our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. 21 An economic downturn, especially one affecting our market areas, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our success depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in our primary market areas. If the communities in which we operate do not grow, or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, our business may not succeed. Unpredictable economic conditions may have an adverse effect on the quality of our loan portfolio and our financial performance. Economic recession over a prolonged period or other economic problems in our market areas could have a material adverse impact on the quality of the loan portfolio and the demand for our products and services. Future adverse changes in the economies in our market areas may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Further, the banking industry in Georgia is affected by general economic conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment and other factors beyond our control. As a community bank, we are less able to spread the risk of unfavorable local economic conditions than larger or more regional banks. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas even if they do occur. Changes in monetary policies may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our financial condition and results of operations are affected by credit policies of monetary authorities, particularly the Federal Reserve Board. Actions by monetary and fiscal authorities, including the Federal Reserve Board, could have an adverse effect on our deposit levels, loan demand or business and earnings. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business, which limitations or restrictions could adversely affect our profitability. As a bank holding company, we are primarily regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“Federal Reserve Board”). Atlantic Southern Bank is primarily regulated by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”) and the Georgia Department of Banking and Finance. Our compliance with Federal Reserve Board, FDIC and Department of Banking and Finance regulations is costly and may limit our growth and restrict certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. We are also subject to capital requirements of our regulators. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the related rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC that currently apply to us and the related exchange rules and regulations, have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. As a result, we may experience greater compliance costs. We face intense competition in all of our current and planned markets. The financial services industry, including commercial banking, mortgage banking, consumer lending, and home equity lending, is highly competitive, and we encounter strong competition for deposits, loans, and other financial services in all of our market areas in each of our lines of business. Our principal competitors include other commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations, mutual funds, money market funds, finance companies, trust companies, insurers, credit unions, and mortgage companies. Many of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same degree of regulation as us and have advantages over us in providing certain services. Many of our competitors are significantly larger than us and have greater access to capital and other resources. Also, our ability to compete effectively in our business is dependent on our ability to adapt successfully to regulatory and technological changes within the banking and financial services industry generally. If we are unable to compete effectively, we will lose market share and our income from loans and other products may diminish. 22 Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things: · the ability to develop, maintain, and build upon long-term customer relationships based on top quality service and high ethical standards; · the scope, relevance, and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands; · the rate at which we introduce new products and services relative to our competitors; · customer satisfaction with our level of service; and · industry and general economic trends. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Environmental liability associated with lending activities could result in losses. In the course of our business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing our loans. If hazardous substances are discovered on any of these properties, we may be liable to governmental entities or third parties for the costs of remediation of the hazard, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Many environmental laws can impose liability regardless of whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the contamination. In addition, if we arrange for the disposal of hazardous or toxic substances at another site, we may be liable for the costs of cleaning up and removing those substances from the site, even if we neither own nor operate the disposal site. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially limit the use of properties that we acquire through foreclosure, reduce their value or limit our ability to sell them in the event of a default on the loans they secure. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no written comments from the Commission staff regarding our periodic or current reports under the Act which remain unresolved. 