Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be impacted by a number of factors. The following sets forth the most significant factors that make an investment in our company speculative or risky. In addition to the following risk factors, please also refer to the section entitled "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements."Risks Related to Our BusinessOur business and financial performance may be adversely affected by market, economic and other industry conditions. Our business and financial performance may be adversely affected by market, economic and other industry conditions, such as the economic slowdown and recessions that were experienced in the United States in 2008, which could lead to losses on our investments or in the assets held in the products we manage and a decrease in revenues, net income and assets. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in lenders not extending credit to us, all of which could impair our operating results. While our business environment and that of many of the entities in which we invest was extremely challenging in 2008 and 2009, we saw improvements in our business as the markets stabilized in 2010 and thereafter. There is no assurance that these conditions will continue to improve in the near term or at all. If the economic slowdown and adverse business conditions resume or get worse, we expect our results of operations to be adversely affected.Changes in the fixed income markets could adversely affect our financial performance. Adverse changes in the fixed income markets could reduce the Advisers' AUM and therefore affect our financial performance. Such changes could include increased volatility in the prices of fixed income instruments, periods of illiquidity in the fixed income trading markets, changes in the taxation of fixed income instruments and significant changes in the "spreads" in the fixed income markets (the amount by which the yields on particular fixed income instruments exceed the yields on benchmark U.S. Treasury securities or other indexes).Changes in CLO spreads and an adverse market environment could continue to make it difficult for the Advisers and other investment managers to launch new CLOs. The ability to issue new CLOs is dependent, in part, on the amount by which the interest earned on the investments held by the CLO exceeds the interest payable by the CLO on the debt obligations it issues to investors and the CLO's other expenses, as well as other factors. If this excess (also known as a CLO's “arbitrage”) is not sufficient, the proposed CLO will not be attractive to investors and thus cannot be issued. There may be sustained periods when CLO arbitrage will not be sufficient for the Advisers to issue new CLOs, which could materially impair the Advisers' business. During the recent financial crisis, there was a dislocation in the credit market that significantly impeded CLO formation. Although market conditions have improved, the dislocation in credit markets could return and continue for a significant period of time. Renewed dislocation of these markets could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.We operate in highly competitive markets, compete with larger institutions and we may not be able to grow our assets under management ("AUM"). The alternative asset management industry is intensely competitive and subject to rapid change. Many firms offer similar and additional asset management products and services to the same types of clients that we target. We currently focus almost exclusively on managing SSCLs and related financial instruments, which is in contrast to numerous other asset managers with comparable AUM, which have significant background and experience in both the equity and debt markets. In addition, many of our competitors have or may in the future develop greater financial and other resources, more extensive distribution capabilities, more effective marketing strategies, more attractive investment vehicle structures and broader name recognition. Many of our competitors are substantially larger than us, have considerably more financial and other resources and may have investment objectives that overlap with ours, which may create competition for investment opportunities with limited supply. Some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us, and may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. The competitive pressures we face could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, if other asset managers offer services and products at more competitive prices than us, we may not be able to maintain our current fee structure. Investment strategies and products, including CLOs, that had historically been attractive to investors may lose their appeal for various reasons. In such case, we would have to develop new strategies and products in order to remain competitive. It could be both expensive and difficult for us to develop new strategies and products, and we may not be successful in this regard. These competitive pressures could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 7Table of Contents Currently, the substantial majority of our investment products are CLOs that cannot be redeemed or terminated by investors unless certain conditions are met or they are not yet redeemable or terminable by investors at all. However, with the passage of time or upon the satisfaction of such conditions, these investment products will be redeemed, and we will no longer receive investment advisory fees related to these products. In addition, the prepayment of the assets contained in the CLOs we manage and our inability to reinvest the proceeds of such prepayments in accordance with the investment guidelines of the CLOs will reduce the asset base on which our fees are paid and thus the amount of our investment advisory fees. If we are unable to launch new products and grow AUM to sufficiently replace lost AUM, our revenues will decline.A reduction in the amount or value of assets in the investment products we manage could significantly reduce our investment advisory fees and incentive fees and adversely affect our financial performance. Our success depends on our ability to earn investment advisory fees from the investment products we manage for third party investors. Such fees generally consist of payments based on the amount of assets in the investment product (known as management fees and/or advisory fees) and, in certain cases, on the returns generated for certain investors in the investment product (incentive fees). If there is a reduction in a product's assets, there will be a corresponding reduction in our management fees from the account and a likely reduction in our incentive fees, if any, relating to the product, since the smaller the product's asset base, the smaller the potential profits earned by the product. There could be a reduction in a product's assets resulting from the prepayment of the assets in the product if we are unable to reinvest the prepayment proceeds, due to a forced liquidation of the assets in the product or due to poor investment performance, including downgrades of ratings assigned to the assets and/or portfolios the Advisers manage. As a result, a reduction in the value of assets in the investment products we manage and investment advisory fees, and the failure of the Advisers' investment products to perform well both on an absolute basis and in relation to competing products, may adversely affect our business and financial performance.Our existing recourse indebtedness and the inability to access capital markets could restrict our business activities or adversely affect our financial performance. As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, we had approximately $145.0 million of outstanding recourse indebtedness, including long-term indebtedness in the form of $120.0 million principal outstanding of Junior Subordinated Notes and $25.0 million principal outstanding of Convertible Notes. $25.0 million of our Junior Subordinated Notes currently bear interest at a variable interest rate and the remainder will begin to bear interest at a variable interest rate after April 30, 2015, which may subject us to interest rate risk and increase our debt service obligations if such interest rate increases. In addition, the debt instruments governing our indebtedness contain covenants that may restrict our business activities, and our failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under our indebtedness. Furthermore, we are permitted by the terms of our Junior Subordinated Notes and our other debt instruments to incur additional indebtedness, however, the proceeds of such indebtedness are subject to the limits on restricted payments of the Junior Subordinated Notes. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, to refinance our debt obligations or to access capital markets or otherwise obtain additional financing on commercially reasonable terms could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Additionally, our return on investments and available cash flow may be reduced to the extent that changes in market conditions increase the cost of our financing relative to the income that can be derived from the assets acquired.Our business could be impaired if we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel. We depend on the diligence, experience, skill and network of business contacts of our executive officers and employees for the evaluation, negotiation, structuring and monitoring of our investments and the operation of our business. Additionally, certain of our investment management contracts may be tied to the retention of certain key employees. The management of our investment products is undertaken by our Investment Research, Portfolio Management and Trading teams, consisting of various investment research and portfolio management and trading personnel, none of whom are bound by employment agreements. The loss of a particular member or members of such teams could cause investors in the product to withdraw all or a portion of their investment in the product, and adversely affect the marketing of the product to new investors and the product's performance. In the case of certain CLOs, we can be removed as investment adviser upon the loss of specified key employees. In addition to the loss of specific investment research and portfolio management and trading team members, the loss of one or more members of our senior management involved in supervising the teams and operating our business could have similar adverse effects on our investment products or our business. We have experienced turnover in certain members of our senior management over the past 12 months. If turnover continues, our business and financial performance could be adversely affected.Accordingly, the inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could affect our ability to provide an acceptable level of service to our clients and take advantage of new opportunities, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance.For example, on February 25, 2014, Peter Gleysteen resigned as our President and Chief Executive Officer. In connection with Mr. Gleysteen’s resignation, our Board of Directors appointed each of Stephen Vaccaro, our Chief Investment Officer, and Oliver Wriedt, our Head of Capital Markets & Distribution, as Co-Presidents of CIFC. The transition to Co-Presidents could result in disruptions to our operations, and our business and financial performance could be adversely affected.8Table of Contents We may leverage our assets and a decline in the fair value of such assets may adversely affect our financial performance. We may leverage our assets through borrowings, generally through warehouse facilities, secured loans, derivative instruments such as total return swaps, securitizations (including the issuance of CLOs), private funds and other borrowings. Certain leverage we may employ may have market value based lending triggers, such that lenders may require us to post additional collateral to support the borrowing if asset prices decline. If we cannot post the additional collateral, we may have to rapidly liquidate assets, which we may be unable to do on favorable terms or at all. Even after liquidating assets, we may still be unable to post the required collateral, further harming our liquidity and subjecting us to liability to our lenders for the declines in the fair values of the collateral. A reduction in credit availability may reduce our earnings, liquidity and available cash.We expect to enter into warehouse agreements in connection with our potential investment in and management of CLOs and other investment products, which may expose us to substantial risks. In connection with our potential investment in and management of new CLOs and other investment products, we expect to enter into warehouse agreements with warehouse providers such as banks or other financial institutions, pursuant to which the warehouse provider will finance the purchase of investments that will be ultimately included in a CLO or other investment product. For CLOs these investments are primarily comprised of SSCLs rated below investment grade. Securities rated below investment grade are often referred to as “leveraged loans” or “high yield” securities, and may be considered “high risk” compared to debt instruments that are rated investment grade. We will typically select the investments in the warehouse subject to the approval of the warehouse provider. If the relevant CLO transaction or other investment product is not issued or consummated, as applicable, the warehouse investments may be liquidated, and we may be required to pay any amount by which the purchase price of the investments exceeds its sale price and may be liable for certain of the expenses associated with the warehouse or planned CLO or other investment product. In addition, regardless of whether the CLO or other investment product is issued or consummated, if any of the warehoused investments are sold before such issuance or consummation, we may have to bear any resulting loss on the sale. The amount at risk in connection with a warehouse agreement will vary and may not be limited to the amount, if any, that we invest in the related CLO or other investment product upon its issuance or consummation, as applicable. Although we would expect to complete the issuance of a particular CLO or other investment product within six to nine months after establishing a related warehouse, we may not be able to complete the issuance within such expected time period or at all.Our quarterly results could fluctuate and may not be indicative of our future quarterly performance. Our quarterly operating results could fluctuate; therefore investors should not rely on past quarterly results to be indicative of our performance in future quarters. Factors that could cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate include, among other things, variations in quarterly fair value determinations of our assets and liabilities, impairments on our intangible assets (including goodwill), changes in interest rates affecting our interest income and interest expense, distributions from our investments in CLOs and private funds and our provision for income tax.Because the values we record for certain investments and liabilities are based on estimates of fair value made by management, we are exposed to substantial risks. Some of our investments and liabilities are not publicly traded. The fair value of such investments and liabilities are not readily determinable. Each of these carrying values is based on an estimate of fair value. Management reports estimated fair value of these investments and liabilities quarterly, which may cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate. Therefore, our past quarterly results may not be indicative of our performance in future quarters. In addition, because such valuations are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these investments and liabilities existed and we may be unable to realize the carrying value upon a sale of these investments.We may in the future issue shares of additional capital stock to raise proceeds for a wide variety of purposes, which could dilute and therefore reduce the value of our existing outstanding capital stock. We may seek to issue shares of our capital stock, either in public offerings, private transactions or both, to raise additional capital or enter into strategic transactions. Such issuances could substantially dilute the stock of our existing stockholders without a corresponding increase in value. We may raise capital for a wide variety of purposes, such as implementing our business plan and repaying indebtedness. Our management will have broad discretion over how we use the proceeds of any capital raise. We may not be able to raise capital at the time or times that we wish, in the amounts we wish, or on the terms or at the prices we consider favorable to us and our stockholders. We may use the proceeds of any future offering in ways in which holders of our capital stock disagree and that yield less than our expected return, or no return at all, which could result in substantial losses to us.9Table of Contents Loss of our 1940 Act exemption could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated and could have a material adverse effect on our business and the price of our shares. We rely primarily on section 3(a)(1)(C) for our exclusion from the registration requirements of the 1940 Act. This provision requires that we neither engage nor propose to engage in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities nor own or propose to acquire "investment securities" having a value exceeding 40% of the value of our total assets on an unconsolidated basis, which is referred to herein as the “40% Test”. "Investment securities" excludes U.S. government securities and securities of majority-owned subsidiaries that rely on the 40% Test. If we fail to meet our current exemption and another exemption is not available, we may be required to register as an investment company. If we were to be deemed an investment company, restrictions imposed by the 1940 Act, including limitations on our capital structure and our ability to transact with affiliates, could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated and would have a material adverse effect on our business.The accounting rules applicable to certain of our transactions are highly complex and require the application of significant judgment and assumptions by our management. In addition, changes in accounting interpretations or assumptions could impact our financial statements. Accounting rules for consolidations, income taxes, business acquisitions, transfers of financial assets, securitization transactions and other aspects of our operations are highly complex and require the application of judgment and assumptions by management. The consolidation of Variable Interest Entities ("VIEs") is subject to periodic reassessment which could lead to the deconsolidation of previously consolidated entities or the consolidation of entities that were previously not required to be consolidated. Deferred tax assets are subject to the establishment of a valuation allowance in the event management concludes that the tax benefits of certain timing differences may not be realized. Business acquisitions require the valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Assets acquired include intangible assets, including goodwill, that will be subject to periodic testing and evaluation for impairment. These complexities could lead to a delay in the preparation of our financial information. In addition, changes in accounting rules, interpretations or assumptions could materially impact the presentation, disclosure and usability of our financial statements.Failure to develop effective business continuity plans could disrupt our operations and cause financial losses. We operate in an industry that is highly dependent on information systems and technology. We face various security threats, including cyber security attacks to our information technology infrastructure that are intended to gain access to our proprietary information, destroy data or disable, degrade or sabotage our systems. These security threats could originate from a wide variety of sources, including unknown third parties outside the company. Although we have not yet been subject to cyber-attacks or other cyber incidents which, individually or in the aggregate, have materially affected our operations or financial condition, there can be no assurance that the various procedures and controls we utilize to mitigate these threats will be sufficient to prevent disruptions to our systems. If any of these systems do not operate properly or are disabled for any reason or if there is any unauthorized disclosure of data, whether as a result of tampering, a breach of our network security systems, a cyber-incident or attack or otherwise, we could suffer substantial financial loss, increased costs, a disruption of our businesses, liability to our investors, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. In addition, we operate in businesses that are highly dependent on information systems and technology. Our information systems and technology may not continue to be able to accommodate our growth, and the cost of maintaining such systems may increase from its current level. Such a failure to accommodate growth, or an increase in costs related to such information systems, could have a material adverse effect on us.We depend to a substantial degree on the availability of our office facilities and the proper functioning of our computer and telecommunications systems. Although we have established a significant disaster recovery program, including pursuant to which (i) we have a dedicated offsite location for certain key staff and (ii) data is backed up at a secured off-site locations and is accessible remotely, a disaster, such as water damage to our office, an explosion or a prolonged loss of electrical power, could materially interrupt our business operations and cause material financial loss, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability, which, in turn, could depress our stock price. Additionally, we cannot assure holders of our stock that the cost of maintaining those services and technology will not materially increase from its current level. Such an increase in costs related to these information systems could have a material and adverse effect on us.DFR Holdings, LLC exercises significant influence over us, including through the ability to elect six members of our Board of Directors. As of December 31, 2013, our common stock owned by DFR Holdings, LLC represents over 70% of shares in CIFC on a fully diluted basis. The Third Amended and Restated Stockholders Agreement provides that DFR Holdings has the right to designate six directors to the Board. As a result, the directors elected to the Board by DFR Holdings may exercise significant influence on matters considered by the Board. DFR Holdings may have interests that diverge from, or even conflict with, our interests and those of our other stockholders. 10Table of Contents Other than requirements to support the nomination, election and removal of directors in accordance with the Third Amended and Restated Stockholders Agreement and to support maintaining our status as a "controlled company" under applicable NASDAQ rules, there are no restrictions on DFR Holdings' ability to vote the common stock owned by them. As a result, DFR Holdings, acting alone, would control the outcome of any matter submitted for the vote of our stockholders, including the amendment of our organizational documents, acquisitions or other business combinations involving us and potentially the ability to prevent extraordinary transactions such as a takeover attempt. The concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of us, may deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our business and may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.We have goodwill and other intangible assets that may become impaired and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have goodwill and intangible assets that are tested for impairment on an annual basis, or when facts and circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. If these tests indicate that an asset has been impaired, we will recognize a charge to results of operations, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.We are subject to substantial risk from litigation and potential securities laws liability and may face significant damage to our professional reputation as a result of such allegations and negative publicity associated therewith. Many aspects of our business involve substantial risks of litigation and/or arbitration, and from time to time, we are involved in various legal proceedings in the course of operating our business. For example, we are currently involved in a suit by a former employee that alleges, among other things, employment discrimination, sexual harassment, wrongful discharge, fraud, breach of fiduciary duty and various securities law violations. From time to time we, our funds and our portfolio companies have been and may be subject to class action suits by shareholders in public companies that we have agreed to acquire that challenge our acquisition transactions and/or attempt to enjoin them. Please see "Item 3—Legal Proceedings” section for additional discussion of certain proceedings to which we are currently a party. In addition, we may be exposed to liability under federal and state securities laws, other federal and state laws and court decisions, as well as rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC and other regulatory bodies. An adverse resolution of any lawsuit, legal or regulatory proceeding or claim against us could result in substantial costs or reputational harm to us, and have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. In addition to these financial costs and risks, the defense of litigation or arbitration may divert resources and management's attention from operations. Asset managers such as the Advisers also are particularly vulnerable to losing clients because of adverse publicity. Accordingly, allegations or an adverse resolution of any lawsuit, legal or regulatory proceeding or claim against us, could materially harm our financial performance. Extensive regulation of our businesses affects our activities and creates the potential for significant liabilities and penalties. The possibility of increased regulatory focus could result in additional burdens on our business. Legislative or regulatory changes could adversely affect us. The Advisers are heavily regulated as investment advisers, primarily at the federal level. Many of these regulators, including the SEC, as well as state securities commissions, are empowered to conduct examinations, investigations and administrative proceedings that can result in fines, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including censure, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or the suspension or expulsion of a broker-dealer or investment adviser from registration or memberships. Even if an investigation or proceeding did not result in a sanction or the sanction imposed against us or our personnel by a regulator were small in monetary amount, the adverse publicity relating to the investigation, proceeding or imposition of these sanctions could harm our reputation and cause us to lose existing clients or fail to gain new asset management or financial advisory clients. Non-compliance with applicable laws or regulations could result in sanctions being levied against us, including fines and censures, suspension or expulsion from a certain jurisdiction or market, or the revocation of licenses. Non-compliance with applicable laws or regulations could also adversely affect our reputation, prospects, revenues and earnings. In addition, changes in current legal, regulatory, accounting, tax or compliance requirements or in governmental policies could adversely affect our operations, revenues and earnings by, among other things, increasing expenses and reducing investor interest in certain products we offer. Additionally, our profitability could be affected by rules and regulations that impact the business and financial communities generally, including changes to the laws governing state and federal taxation. 11Table of Contents In July 2010, the U.S. Congress enacted the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act"), in part to impose significant investment restrictions and capital requirements on banking entities and other organizations that are significant to U.S. financial markets. For instance, the Dodd-Frank Act imposes significant restrictions on the proprietary trading activities pursuant to the “Volker Rule” and other rules and regulations of certain banking entities and subjects other systemically significant organizations regulated by the U.S. Federal Reserve to increased capital requirements and quantitative limits for engaging in such activities. These rules could adversely affect the availability of warehouse financing, the attractiveness of investments in funds we manage and/or the loan market generally. The Dodd-Frank Act also seeks to reform the asset-backed securitization market (including the CLO market) by requiring the retention of a portion of the credit risk inherent in the pool of securitized assets and by imposing additional registration and disclosure requirements. While the full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act cannot be assessed until implementing regulations are released and fully implemented, the Dodd-Frank Act's extensive requirements may have a significant effect on the financial markets, and may affect our ability to issue new CLOs, which may have an adverse effect on our business. Under the U.S. Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (“FATCA”), all entities in a broadly defined class of foreign financial institutions (“FFIs”), likely impacting CLOs, are required to comply with a complicated and expansive reporting regime or, beginning in 2014, be subject to a 30% United States withholding tax on certain U.S. payments (and beginning in 2017, a 30% withholding tax on gross proceeds from the sale of U.S. stocks and securities) and non-U.S. entities which are not FFIs are required to either certify they have no substantial U.S. beneficial ownership or to report certain information with respect to their substantial U.S. beneficial ownership or, beginning in 2014, be subject to a 30% U.S. withholding tax on certain U.S. payments (and beginning in 2017, a 30% withholding tax on gross proceeds from the sale of U.S. stocks and securities). The reporting obligations imposed under FATCA require FFIs to enter into agreements with the IRS to obtain and disclose information about certain investors to the IRS. In addition, the administrative and economic costs of compliance with FATCA may discourage some foreign investors from investing in CLOs or other funds, which could adversely affect our ability to raise funds from these investors. In addition, we regularly rely on exemptions from various requirements of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the Exchange Act, the 1940 Act, and the U.S. Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, in conducting our asset management activities. These exemptions are sometimes highly complex and may in certain circumstances depend on compliance by third parties whom we do not control. If for any reason these exemptions were to become unavailable to us, we could become subject to regulatory action or third party claims and our business could be materially and adversely affected. Lastly, the requirements imposed by our regulators are designed primarily to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect investors in our investment products and are not designed to protect our common stockholders. Consequently, these regulations often serve to limit our activities and impose burdensome compliance requirements.We do not know the impact on our business caused by actions by U.S. and foreign governments, central banks and other governmental and regulatory bodies attempting to stabilize and strengthen the financial market or their increased focus on the regulation of our industry. In recent years, U.S. and foreign governments, central banks and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken a number of steps to attempt to stabilize and strengthen the U.S. and global financial markets and economies. In particular, in the U.S., these efforts have included direct government investments in, and guarantees of, troubled financial institutions as well as government-sponsored programs such as the Troubled Asset Relief Program in 2008 and the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act imposes new regulations and significant investment restrictions and capital requirements on banking entities and other organizations that are significant to the U.S. financial markets and could increase our costs of operating as a public company. Furthermore, many key aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act will be established by various regulatory bodies and other groups over the next several years. We are not able to predict the impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition of these efforts by U.S. and foreign governments, central banks or other governmental and regulatory bodies or the impact of future regulation of our industry. Foreign corporate entities in which we have invested could be subject to federal income tax at the entity level, which would greatly reduce the amounts those entities would have available to distribute to us. From time to time, we invest in investment products managed by the Advisers. Those investments typically are in the form of interests in foreign corporate entities. There is a specific exemption from federal income tax for non-U.S. corporations that restrict their activities in the United States to trading stock and securities (or any activity closely related thereto) for their own account whether such trading (or such other activity) is conducted by the corporation or its employees through a resident broker, commission agent, custodian or other agent. We intend that our foreign corporate investments will rely on that exemption or otherwise operate in a manner so that they will not be subject to federal income tax on their net income at the entity level. If the IRS successfully challenged the qualification of our foreign corporate investment for the exemption from federal income tax described above, that could greatly reduce the amount that our foreign corporate entities would have available to pay to their creditors and to distribute to us.12Table of Contents Our results of operations may be negatively affected by our future tax liabilities. As a result of the stock issuance to DFR Holdings in connection with the CNCIM Acquisition and the Merger, we and Legacy CIFC, respectively, each experienced an ownership change under Section 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which severely limit our ability to use our existing net operating losses ("NOLs") and net capital losses ("NCLs") to offset our taxable income and capital gains. Accordingly, to the extent we have taxable income, we anticipate that we will incur federal corporate income tax liabilities, which may have a significant impact on our results of operations.The Advisers' incentive fees may increase the volatility of our cash flows, which could adversely affect our financial performance. Historically, a portion of the Advisers' revenues have been derived from incentive fees on the various investment products that they manage. Incentive fees are generally based on the returns generated for certain investors in the investment product. With respect to the Advisers' CLOs, the Advisers are entitled to incentive fees only if the returns on the related portfolios exceed agreed-upon return targets. Incentive fees, if any, may vary from period to period in relation to volatility in investment returns, causing the Advisers' cash flows to be more volatile than if it did not manage assets on an incentive fee basis. Adverse credit and capital markets conditions could significantly increase the volatility of the investment products managed by the Advisers and decrease the likelihood that they will earn incentive fees. Also, alternative asset managers typically derive a greater portion of their revenues from incentive fees than traditional asset managers, thus increasing the potential volatility in the Advisers' cash flows. The volatility in the Advisers' cash flows and decreases in incentive fees could harm our financial performance.We derive much of our revenues from investment management agreements that may be terminated on short notice. Each Adviser derives a substantial portion of its revenues from investment management agreements that may be terminated on short notice. The “non-call” periods on a significant portion of the CLOs the we manage have elapsed, enabling investors to “call” (i.e., initiate liquidation of) such CLOs on relatively short notice. If a CLO is liquidated, we will cease to earn investment advisory fees in respect of such CLO. In addition, with respect to the Advisers' agreements with certain of the funds they manage, an Adviser can be removed without cause by investors that hold a specified amount of the interests issued by the fund. Additionally, the Advisers' agreements with CLOs allow investors that hold a specified amount of securities issued by the CLO to remove the Adviser for "cause," which typically includes an Adviser's violation of the management agreement or the related indenture; an Adviser's breach of its representations and warranties under the agreement; an Adviser's bankruptcy or insolvency; fraud or the commitment of a criminal offense by an Adviser or its employees; the failure of certain of the CLOs' performance tests; and willful misconduct, bad faith or gross negligence by the Adviser. These "cause" provisions may be triggered from time to time, and as a result, investors could elect to remove the relevant Adviser as the investment manager of such fund. The termination of an Adviser's investment management agreements could adversely affect our financial performance.We may be unable to maintain adequate liquidity to support our ongoing operations and planned growth. As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, we had unrestricted cash and cash equivalents of $25.5 million and $47.7 million, respectively. Cash generated from operations may not provide sufficient liquidity to fund our operations and pay general corporate expenses. Declines in the fair value of our assets may additionally adversely affect our liquidity. If we are unable to maintain adequate liquidity, we may be unable to support our ongoing operations and planned growth, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Defaults, downgrades and depressed market values of the collateral underlying CLOs may cause the decline in and deferral of investment advisory income and the reduction of AUM. Under the investment management agreements between the Advisers and the CLOs they manage, payment of an Adviser's investment advisory fees is generally subject to a "waterfall" structure. Pursuant to these "waterfalls," all or a portion of an Adviser's fees may be deferred if, among other things, the CLOs do not generate sufficient cash flows to pay the required interest on the notes they have issued to investors and certain expenses they have incurred. Deferrals could occur if the issuers of the collateral underlying the CLOs default on or defer payments of principal or interest relating to such collateral. Due to severe levels of defaults and delinquencies on the assets underlying certain of the CLOs managed by the Advisers, in the past, we have both experienced declines in and deferrals of investment advisory fees. Further, during such periods and pursuant to the waterfalls, the CLOs may be required to repay certain of these liabilities, which repayment permanently reduces our AUM and related investment advisory fees pursuant to which we can recoup deferred subordinated fees. If similar defaults and delinquencies resume, the Advisers could experience additional declines in and deferrals of their investment advisory fees. 13Table of Contents Additionally, all or a portion of an Adviser's investment advisory fees from the CLOs that it manages may be deferred if such CLOs fail to satisfy certain “over-collateralization” tests. Pursuant to the "waterfall" structure discussed above, such failures generally require cash flows to be diverted to prepay certain of the CLO's liabilities resulting in similar permanent reductions in AUM and investment advisory fees in respect of such CLOs. Defaulted assets and assets that have been severely downgraded are generally carried at a reduced value for purposes of the over-collateralization tests. In some CLOs, these assets are required to be carried at their market values for purposes of the over-collateralization tests. Due to exceptionally high levels of defaults, severe downgrades and depressed market values of the collateral underlying certain CLOs managed by the Advisers, some CLOs have breached their over-collateralization tests, and the Advisers have therefore experienced, and may continue to experience, declines in and deferrals of their investment advisory fees which could have a material and adverse effect on us.The Advisers could lose investment advisory income or AUM from the CLOs they manage as a result of the triggering of certain structural protections built into such CLOs. The CLOs managed by the Advisers generally contain structural provisions including, but not limited to, the over-collateralization tests discussed above and/or market value triggers that are meant to protect investors from deterioration in the credit quality of the underlying collateral pool. In certain cases, non-compliance with these structural provisions can lead to events of default under the indenture governing a CLO followed by the acceleration of the CLO's obligation to repay the notes issued by the CLO and, ultimately, liquidation of the underlying collateral. In the event of a liquidation of the collateral underlying a CLO, the relevant Adviser will lose AUM and therefore investment advisory fees, which could have a material and adverse effect on us. Three of the CDOs of asset backed securities that DCM manages have triggered events of default primarily resulting from downgrades of their underlying collateral. The notes issued by these CDOs have been accelerated. However, pursuant to the indentures governing these CDOs, the CDOs will not be liquidated unless either the proceeds of such liquidation will be sufficient to pay off all of the notes issued by the CDO, the accrued investment advisory fees and certain administrative expenses or the holders of a supermajority (or, in the case of one of the CDOs that has triggered an event of default but not an acceleration of notes, a majority) of the notes direct the liquidation.An Adviser's failure to comply with investment guidelines set by its clients or the provisions of the management agreement and other agreements to which it is a party could result in damage awards against such Adviser and a loss of AUM, either of which could have a material adverse effect on us. As an investment adviser, each Adviser has a fiduciary duty to its clients. When clients retain an Adviser to manage assets on their behalf, they may specify certain guidelines regarding investment allocation and strategy that such Adviser is required to observe in the management of its portfolios. In addition, such Adviser is required to comply with the obligations set forth in the management agreements and other agreements to which it is a party. Although each Adviser utilizes procedures, processes and the services of experienced advisors to assist it in adhering to these guidelines and agreements, we cannot assure that such precautions will protect us from potential liabilities. An Adviser's failure to comply with these guidelines or the terms of these agreements could have a material adverse effect on us.We could incur losses due to trading errors by the Advisers. The Advisers could make errors in placing transaction orders for investment products they manage, such as purchasing a security for a product whose investment guidelines prohibit the product from holding the security, purchasing an unintended amount of the security, or placing a buy order when an Adviser intended to place a sell order, or vice-versa. If the transaction resulted in a loss for the product, the relevant Adviser might be required to reimburse the product for the loss. Such reimbursements could be substantial. It is also possible that we could be subject to intentional misconduct by our employees or others that could result in severe negative consequences, including financial penalties and reputational harm. These errors and misconduct could affect trades on behalf of the Advisers, which could exacerbate the adverse financial impact on us.The Advisers depend on third-party distribution channels to market their CLOs. The Advisers' CLO management services are marketed by institutions that act as selling or placement agents for CLOs. The potential investor base for CLOs is limited, and the Advisers' ability to access clients is highly dependent on access to these selling and placement agents. These channels may not be accessible to the Advisers, which could have a material and adverse effect on the Advisers' ability to launch new CLOs. In addition, the Advisers' existing relationships with third-party distributors and access to new distributors could be adversely impacted by recent consolidation in the financial services industry, which could result in increased distribution costs, a reduction in the number of third parties selling or placing the Advisers' CLOs or increased competition to access third-party distribution channels.14Table of Contents We may invest in the subordinated and mezzanine notes of CLOs, and such investments involve various risks, including that CLO subordinated notes receive distributions from the CLO only if the CLO generates enough income to first pay the holders of its debt securities and its expenses. Our assets include investments in subordinated and mezzanine notes of certain CLOs we manage, and we may buy subordinated and mezzanine notes of, or other interests in, other CLOs. The subordinated notes are usually entitled to all of the income generated by the CLO after the CLO pays all of the interest due on the debt notes and its expenses. However, there will be little or no income available to the CLO subordinated notes if there are defaults on the underlying collateral in excess of certain amounts or if the recoveries on such defaulted collateral are less than certain amounts. In that event, the value of our investment in the CLO's subordinated notes could decrease substantially. In addition, the subordinated notes of CLOs are generally illiquid, and because they represent a leveraged investment in the CLO's assets, their value will generally fluctuate more than the values of the underlying collateral. We are required to consolidate certain CLOs we manage, however, we have no right to the benefits from, nor do we bear the risk associated with, the assets held by such CLOs, beyond our minimal direct investments and beneficial interests in, and management fees generated from, them.We elected to become a "controlled company" within the meaning of the NASDAQ rules and, as a result, qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements intended to protect public stockholders' interests. DFR Holdings controls a majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. As a result, we elected to qualify as a "controlled company" within the meaning of the corporate governance standards of the NASDAQ rules. Under these rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, group or another company is a "controlled company" and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including:•the requirement that a majority of our Board consist of independent directors; •the requirement that we have independent director oversight of executive officer compensation; and •the requirement that we have independent director oversight of director nominations. We have agreed pursuant to the Third Amended and Restated Stockholders Agreement to utilize these exemptions. As a result, our Board does not have a majority of independent directors, and its nominating and corporate governance committee and compensation committee do not consist entirely of independent directors. Accordingly, our stockholders do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements under the NASDAQ rules.The market price of our common stock may decline as a result of the exercise of certain registration rights granted to DFR Holdings. We are unable to predict the potential effects of the exercise of previously granted registration rights on the trading activity and market price of our common stock. We have granted registration rights to DFR Holdings for the resale of certain shares received by them in the CNCIM Acquisition and the shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes. These registration rights would facilitate the resale of such securities into the public market, and any such resale would increase the number of shares of our common stock available for public trading. Sales by DFR Holdings of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales might occur, could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.