Item 1A. Risk Factors — Risks Relating to the Business of Deerfield and DCM.” Policies with Respect to Certain Other Activities If our Board determines that we need to raise additional capital, we may seek to do so through additional public or private offerings of equity or debt securities or the retention of cash flow if available (subject to provisions in the Internal Revenue Code concerning distribution requirements and the taxability of undistributed REIT taxable income) or a combination of these methods. If our Board determines it is appropriate to raise additional equity capital, we have the authority to do so, generally without stockholder approval, in any manner and on such terms and for such consideration, as our Board deems appropriate, at any time. We have in the past invested, and may in the future invest, subject to gross income and asset tests necessary for REIT qualification, in securities of other REITs, other entities engaged in real estate activities or securities of other issuers. We have not made in the past, but may in the future make, such investments for the purpose of exercising control over such entities. We generally engage in the purchase and sale of securities. We have made in the past, and may in the future make, loans to third parties in the ordinary course of business for investment purposes. We will not underwrite the securities of other issuers. Our Board may change any of these policies without prior notice to or a vote of our stockholders. Our Distribution Policy Federal income tax law requires that a REIT distribute annually at least 90% of its REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain. Up to 20% of the value of a REIT’s assets may consist of the securities of one or more TRSs. A domestic TRS, such as TRS Holdings, DFR TRS I Corp., DFR TRS II Corp. and the DFR MM Subs (as defined below), may retain its net income, and its earnings are subject to the 90% distribution requirement only to the extent the TRS actually distributes its earnings to the REIT. However, a foreign TRS, such as Market Square CLO, Pinetree CDO Ltd., or Pinetree CDO, DFR MM CLO and Deerfield TRS (Bahamas) Ltd., generally is deemed to distribute its earnings to the REIT on an annual basis for federal income tax purposes, regardless of whether it actually distributes its earnings. We hold our interest in DFR MM CLO through the DFR MM Subs (as defined below), each of which holds a 20% interest in DFR MM CLO. In February 2008, we made TRS elections for two of the DFR MM Subs effective for the 2007 tax year. Because of those elections, 40% of the earnings of DFR MM CLO will be subject to the 90% distribution requirement only to the extent actually distributed by those two DFR MM Subs. We may make TRS elections with respect to one or more of the other DFR MM Subs in the future. Those DFR MM Subs for which a TRS election has not been made are qualified REIT subsidiaries, or QRSs. The DFR MM Subs are domestic subsidiaries and consist of DFR Middle Market Sub-1, Inc., DFR Middle Market Sub-2, Inc., DFR Middle Market Sub-3, Inc., DFR Middle Market Sub-4, Inc. and DFR Middle Market Sub-5, Inc. In connection with the REIT requirements, we have historically made regular quarterly distributions of all or substantially all of our REIT taxable income to holders of our common stock. As discussed further in Part II — Item 7. Management’s Discuss and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Recent Developments, we recently sold the vast majority of our AAA-rated non-Agency RMBS portfolio and significantly reduced our Agency RMBS holdings and interest rate swap portfolio at a significant net loss. We therefore expect our distributions in 2008, and perhaps thereafter, to be substantially less than amounts paid in prior years. Additionally, although we have historically made regular quarterly distributions of all or substantially all of our REIT taxable income, we may pay future dividends less frequently and we may only distribute that amount of our taxable income required to maintain our REIT qualification. Furthermore, we may elect to pay future dividends in the form of additional shares of our stock rather than cash. We may not have adequate liquidity to make these or any other distributions. Any future distributions we make will be at the discretion of our Board and will depend upon, among other things, our actual results of operations. Our results of operations and ability to pay distributions will be affected by various factors, including our liquidity, 14 Table of Contents the net interest and other income from our portfolio, our investment management fees, our operating expenses and other expenditures, as well as covenants contained in the terms of our indebtedness. We anticipate that our distributions generally will be taxable as ordinary income to our stockholders, although a portion of the distributions may be qualified dividend income to the extent our taxable income is attributable to dividends received from a corporation (such as a TRS), or may constitute a return of capital. To the extent that we decide to make distributions in excess of our current and accumulated earnings and profits for federal income tax purposes, such distributions would generally be considered a return of capital for federal income tax purposes. We will furnish annually to each of our stockholders a statement setting forth distributions paid during the preceding year and their characterization as ordinary income, return of capital, qualified dividend income or capital gain. Income as computed for purposes of the foregoing tax rules will not necessarily correspond to our income as determined for financial reporting purposes. Operating and Regulatory Structure We elected to be taxed as a REIT under Sections 856 through 859 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code. Our continued qualification under the Code as a REIT depends upon our ability to meet on a continuing basis, through actual investment and operating results, various complex requirements under the Code relating to, among other things, the sources of our gross income, the composition and values of our assets, our distribution levels and the diversity of ownership of our shares. We believe that we were organized and have operated in conformity with the requirements for qualification as a REIT and that our intended manner of operation will enable us to continue to meet those requirements. As a REIT, we generally will not be subject to federal income tax on net taxable income we distribute currently to our stockholders. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we will be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates. Even if we qualify as a REIT, we may be subject to some federal, state and local taxes on our income or property. We conduct all of our business and hold all of our assets through our wholly-owned subsidiaries. Our main subsidiary is DC LLC which is a QRS. We generally expect to continue to make and hold most of our investments and conduct our operations through DC LLC. In addition, we own interests in several domestic TRSs, such as Deerfield TRS Holdings, Inc., or TRS Inc., and the subsidiaries that hold our investments in Deerfield and DFR MM CLO, which are generally subject to federal, state and local income tax. We also own interests in foreign TRSs, such as Market Square CLO, which are generally not subject to federal income tax. Management Agreement Prior Management Agreement From December 23, 2004 through December 21, 2007, we were party to a management agreement, which we sometimes refer to as the prior management agreement, with DCM that provided for DCM’s day-to-day management of our operations. That agreement required DCM to manage our business affairs in conformity with the policies and the investment guidelines that were approved and monitored by our Board. DCM’s role as manager was under the supervision and direction of our Board. 15 Table of Contents Pursuant to the prior management agreement, we paid DCM a base management fee and an incentive fee, and reimbursed certain of DCM’s expenses. The following table summarizes the fees that were payable to DCM pursuant to that agreement: Fee Summary Description Base Management Fee Payable monthly in arrears in an amount equal to 1/12 of our equity (as defined in the prior management agreement) times 1.75%. DCM used the proceeds from its management fee in part to pay compensation to its officers and employees who, notwithstanding that certain of them were also our officers, received no cash compensation directly from us. Incentive Fee Payable quarterly in an amount equal to the product of: (a) 25% of the dollar amount by which (i) our net income (determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or GAAP) and before non-cash equity compensation expense and before incentive fees, for the quarter per common share (based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the quarter) exceeded (ii) an amount equal to (A) the weighted average of the price per share of the common shares in the December 2004 private offering and our June 2005 initial public offering, and the price per common share in any subsequent offerings by us, in each case at the time of issuance thereof, multiplied by (B) the greater of (1) 2.00% and (2) 0.50% plus one-fourth of the Ten Year Treasury Rate for such quarter, multiplied by (b) the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the quarter; provided, that the foregoing calculation of incentive fees was to be adjusted to exclude one-time events pursuant to changes in GAAP, as well as non-cash charges after discussion between DCM and our independent directors and approval by a majority of our independent directors in the case of non-cash charges. The incentive fee was paid quarterly with 85% of the fee paid to DCM in cash and 15% paid in shares of DFR common stock. DCM had the right to elect to receive more than 15% of incentive fee in the form of such shares. All shares were fully vested upon issuance, provided that DCM agreed not to sell such shares prior to the date that was one year after the date the shares were payable. The value of the shares was deemed to be the average of the closing prices of the shares on the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, over the 30 calendar-day period ending three days before the issuance of the shares. New Management Agreement In connection with the Merger, we terminated the prior management agreement and entered into a new management agreement with DCM, which we sometimes refer to as the new management agreement, pursuant to which DCM continues to provide all of the services it provided before the Merger. We are now internally managed, and DCM continues to provide asset management services to third parties. Pursuant to the new management agreement, we continue to pay fees to DCM for its services on a cost plus margin basis for investment advisory and executive management services. We are charged cost for all ancillary services, including back office support, and certain operating expenses. The fee structure was based on a transfer pricing study performed by external advisors. The study will be reviewed periodically. Because we own DCM through domestic TRSs, the fees we pay to DCM will be subject to federal, state and local income tax and deductible from our REIT taxable income. Exclusion from Regulation Under the 1940 Act We intend to operate so as to be excluded from regulation under the 1940 Act. Because we operate through wholly-owned subsidiaries, we must ensure not only that DFR itself qualifies for an exclusion or exemption from regulation under the 1940 Act, but also that each of our subsidiaries so qualifies. Our main subsidiary, DC LLC, is excluded from 1940 Act regulation under a provision for companies that primarily engage in acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate. To qualify for this exclusion, we need to ensure that at least 55% of DC LLC’s consolidated basis assets consist of mortgage 16 Table of Contents loans and other assets that are considered the functional equivalent of mortgage loans under the 1940 Act (collectively, qualifying real estate assets), and that at least 80% of DC LLC’s consolidated-basis assets consist of real estate-related assets (including qualifying real estate assets). Based on no-action letters issued by the SEC’s Division of Investment Management, or the Division, we generally classify as qualifying real estate assets for the exclusion DC LLC’s holdings of residential mortgage loans that are fully secured by an interest in real estate and agency whole pool certificates. We generally do not expect DC LLC’s investments in RMBS and CMBS, other than its investments in agency whole pool certificates, to constitute qualifying real estate assets for the 55% test, unless those investments are the functional equivalent of owning mortgage loans. Instead, these investments generally will be classified as real estate-related assets for the 80% test. We do not expect DC LLC’s investments in CDOs, ABS, loans and distressed and stressed debt securities to be qualifying real estate assets, nor to be real estate-related assets to the extent that they are not backed by mortgage loans or other interests in real estate, but rather miscellaneous assets, which can constitute no more than 20% of DC LLC’s assets under the mortgage company exclusion. None of TRS Inc., Deerfield TRS Holdings LLC, Market Square CLO, DFR MM CLO or Deerfield TRS (Bahamas) Ltd. can qualify for this mortgage company exclusion. Accordingly, we strive to ensure that none of those entities is making or proposing to make a public offering of its securities, and we require that each owner of securities issued by those entities is a qualified purchaser under the 1940 Act, so that those entities are not investment companies subject to regulation under the 1940 Act. In addition, we must ensure that DFR itself qualifies for an exclusion from regulation under the 1940 Act. Deerfield is excluded from the definition of “investment company” because no more than 40% of its assets, on an unconsolidated basis, excluding certain items, are investment securities. We will do so by monitoring the value of our interests in our subsidiaries. At all times, we must ensure that no more than 40% of DFR’s assets, on an unconsolidated basis, excluding certain items, are investment securities under the 1940 Act. Our interests in TRS Inc, Deerfield TRS Holdings, LLC and Deerfield TRS (Bahamas) Ltd. are investment securities for these purposes, but our interest in DC LLC is not. Accordingly, we must monitor the value of our interests in all of our subsidiaries to ensure that the value of the interests in those subsidiaries other than DC LLC never exceeds 40% of our total assets. We will monitor the value of our interests in our subsidiaries for REIT tax qualification purposes as well. We have not received or sought a no-action letter from the Division regarding how our investment strategy fits within the exclusions from regulation under the 1940 Act. To the extent that the Division provides more specific or different guidance regarding the treatment of assets as qualifying real estate assets or real estate-related assets, we may have to adjust our investment strategy accordingly. Any additional guidance from the Division could further inhibit our ability to pursue our investment strategy. Restrictions on Ownership of Our Capital Stock In order to qualify as a REIT under the Code, our shares of capital stock must be beneficially owned by 100 or more persons during at least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months or during a proportionate part of a shorter taxable year. Also, no more than 50% of the value of our outstanding shares of capital stock may be owned, directly or constructively, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Code to include certain entities) during the second half of any calendar year. Our articles of amendment and restatement, as amended, or our charter, subject to certain exceptions, contains restrictions on the number of shares of our capital stock that a person may own and may prohibit certain entities from owning our shares. Our charter and certain Board resolutions provide that (subject to certain exceptions described below) no person may own, or be deemed to own by virtue of the attribution provisions of the Code, more than 7.7% in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of any class or series of our capital stock. Our charter also prohibits any person from (i) beneficially or constructively owning shares of our capital stock that would result in our being “closely held” under Section 856(h) of the Code or otherwise cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT and (ii) transferring shares of our capital stock if such transfer would result in our capital stock being owned by fewer than 100 persons. Any person who acquires or attempts or intends to acquire beneficial or constructive ownership of shares of our capital stock that will or may violate any of the foregoing restrictions on transferability and ownership, or who is the intended transferee of shares of our stock which are transferred to a charitable trust, will be required to give notice 17 Table of Contents immediately to us and provide us with such other information as we may request in order to determine the effect of such transfer on our status as a REIT. The foregoing restrictions on transferability and ownership will not apply if our Board determines that it is no longer in our best interests to attempt to qualify, or to continue to qualify, as a REIT. Our Board, in its sole discretion, may exempt a person from the foregoing restrictions. The person seeking an exemption must provide to our Board such representations, covenants and undertakings as our Board may deem appropriate in order to conclude that granting the exemption will not cause us to lose our status as a REIT. Our Board may also require a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service or an opinion of counsel in order to determine or ensure our status as a REIT. From time to time, our Board has exempted stockholders from the ownership restrictions. For example, our Board has exempted from the ownership limit Robert C. Dart, Kenneth B. Dart and certain entities affiliated with Robert C. Dart or Kenneth B. Dart (collectively, the Dart Group). The exemptions provide that each member of the Dart Group may own up to 18.5% in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of our outstanding shares of common stock, provided that the Dart Group, in the aggregate, may only own up to 18.5% in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of our outstanding common stock. Additionally, in connection with the Merger, our Board exempted (i) Gregory H. Sachs, who is also one of our directors, and (ii) Triarc and Triarc Deerfield Holdings, LLC (a majority-owned subsidiary of Triarc) and certain of their affiliates, including Nelson Peltz and one of our directors, Peter W. May, from the ownership limit with respect to the Series A Preferred Stock and also exempted Triarc and Triarc Deerfield Holdings, LLC from the ownership limit with respect to our common stock. In connection with granting these exemptions, our Board obtained representations regarding each waiver recipient’s ownership of our capital stock and obtained opinions of counsel that granting the exemptions would not jeopardize our status as a REIT. These ownership limitations could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our Series A Preferred Stock and common stock or might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. Governmental Regulations DCM is registered with the SEC as an investment adviser and with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or CFTC, as a commodity pool operator and commodity trading advisor, and is a member of the National Futures Association. In these capacities, DCM is subject to various regulatory requirements and restrictions with respect to its asset management activities (in addition to other laws). In addition, investment vehicles managed by DCM, such as investment funds and CDOs, are subject to various securities and other laws. You may obtain a copy of DCM’s SEC Form ADV Part II upon request. DCM Europe is subject to significant regulation by the United Kingdom Financial Services Authority under the U.K. Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000. 18 Table of Contents Organizational Structure We were incorporated in Maryland on November 22, 2004 and commenced operations on December 23, 2004. Charts summarizing our organizational structure immediately before and after the Merger are set forth below. Before the Merger: (1) We formed Deerfield Triarc TRS Holdings, Inc., a TRS, to give us flexibility to hold certain assets or engage in certain activities that we, as a REIT, cannot hold or in which we cannot engage directly. (2) We formed Deerfield Triarc TRS (Bahamas) Ltd., one of our TRSs, and DWFC, LLC to facilitate a $375.0 million three-year warehouse funding agreement with Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC. (3) We formed Deerfield Triarc Capital Trust I, Deerfield Triarc Capital Trust II and Deerfield Triarc Capital Trust III for the sole purpose of issuing trust preferred securities. These trusts are not consolidated into our financial statements because, although we own 100% of the common shares of each trust, we are not deemed the primary beneficiary of the trusts under the applicable accounting literature. The trusts are each a separate legal entity but are shown in one box in the above table for ease of presentation. 19 Table of Contents (4) We own substantially all of the equity interest in Market Square CLO Ltd., a Cayman Islands exempted limited liability company, and one of our TRSs, in the form of preference shares. (5) We own all of the membership interests in DFR Pinetree Holding LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, that owns 100% of the ordinary shares of Pinetree CDO, a Cayman Islands exempted limited liability company, which have de minimis value. On December 31, 2007, we sold all of the preference shares of Pinetree CDO and as a result de-consolidated the assets and liabilities of Pinetree CDO. (6) Each is a separate legal entity but the entities are shown in one box in the above table for ease of presentation. (7) We own all of the equity interests in DFR Middle Market CLO Ltd., a Cayman Islands exempted limited liability company and one of our TRSs, in the form of ordinary shares and subordinated notes. (8) DFR Merger Company LLC was owned by four intermediate subsidiaries. 20 Table of Contents After the Merger: * The Triarc name was removed from each of our existing subsidiaries following completion of the Merger. 21 Table of Contents Employees As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately 130 employees. In response to the current adverse credit market environment, we recently reduced our workforce by 13 employees, or approximately 10%. The reductions occurred across a broad range of functions within the company and are effective as of March 1, 2008. We believe these reductions can improve our financial results without impairing our ability to operate the business in a sound manner. We intend to continue to seek cost reductions and may, to the extent we consider it advisable, consolidate or outsource additional personnel functions to improve our efficiency. Available Information Our Internet address is www.deerfieldcapital.com. We make available free of charge, on or through the “SEC Filings” section of our website, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Also posted on our website, and available in print upon request to our Investor Relations Department, are the charters for our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which governs our directors, officers and employees. Within the time period required by the SEC and the NYSE, we will post on our website any amendment to our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and any waiver applicable to our senior financial officers, and our executive officers or directors. In addition, information concerning purchases and sales of our equity securities by our directors and Section 16 reporting officers is posted on our website. Information on our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our Investor Relations Officer can be contacted at Deerfield Capital Corp., 6250 North River Road, 9th Floor, Rosemont, Illinois 60018, Attn: Richard Smith, Investor Relations, Telephone: (773) 380-6587, e-mail: rsmith@deerfieldcapital.com. 22 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The current weakness in the credit market and broader financial markets has created liquidity constraints for us and exacerbated certain of the risks related to an investment in our company and its subsidiaries. The following sets forth the most significant factors that make an investment in our company speculative or risky. If any of the risks described below actually occur or, in certain cases, continue, our business, financial condition or results of operations may suffer. As a result, the value of our Series A Preferred Stock and common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business Generally We leverage our investments and incur other indebtedness, which may reduce our returns and our dividends. We leverage our investments through borrowings, generally through warehouse facilities, repurchase agreements, secured loans, securitizations (including the issuance of CDOs), loans to entities in which we hold interests in pools of assets and other borrowings. We also incur other indebtedness from time to time such as our obligations resulting from the issuance of trust preferred securities and the issuance of approximately $74.0 million of two series of senior secured notes in connection with the Merger. We are not limited in the amount of leverage we may use. Our leverage amount at any given time varies depending on such factors as our ability to obtain credit facilities, the lenders’ and rating agencies’ estimate of the stability of our investments’ cash flow and market conditions for debt securities. Our return on investments and cash available for distribution to our stockholders may be reduced to the extent that changes in market conditions increase the cost of our financing relative to the income that can be derived from the assets acquired. Our debt service payments will reduce cash flow available for distributions to stockholders. We may not be able to meet our debt service obligations or may otherwise default under the terms of our indebtedness, thus risking the loss of some or all of our assets to foreclosure or sale to satisfy the obligations. We leverage certain of our assets through repurchase agreements. Under our repurchase agreements we pledge additional assets as collateral to our repurchase agreement counterparties (i.e., lenders) when the estimated fair value of the existing pledged collateral under such agreements declines and such lenders demand additional collateral (i.e., initiate a margin call). Margin calls result from a decline in the value of the RMBS collateralizing our repurchase agreements, generally following the monthly principal reduction of such RMBS due to scheduled amortization and prepayments on the underlying mortgages, changes in market interest rates, a decline in market prices affecting our RMBS and other market factors. We may not have the funds available to satisfy any of these calls and may have to sell assets at a time when we might not otherwise choose to do so thereby suffering significant losses and harming our liquidity. Credit facility providers and other holders of our indebtedness may require us to maintain a certain amount of uninvested cash, to set aside unlevered assets sufficient to maintain a specified liquidity position to satisfy our collateral obligations or to maintain certain minimum net worth. Thus, we may not be able to leverage our assets as fully as we would choose, which could reduce our returns. If we are unable to meet these collateral obligations, we may be unable to obtain any additional financing and our financial condition could deteriorate rapidly. Maintaining our liquidity requirements may require us to sell assets, which could cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT. The current market and sales of RMBS have significantly decreased our liquidity and therefore our ability to fund our investment activities, pay fees under our management agreement, fund our distributions to stockholders and pay general corporate expenses. Our Series A Preferred Stock and trust preferred securities impose, and future classes of capital stock may impose, certain covenants and obligations on use and our operations, including covenants related to our liquidity. Further increases in prepayment rates or decreases in the fair value of our RMBS could cause further liquidity pressures or shortfalls. If such a situation were to arise, we may have to sell additional investment securities which we may be unable to do on favorable terms or at all. Depending upon the extent of sales necessary to secure an adequate level of liquidity, and the types 23 Table of Contents of assets that we were to sell, we may not be able to comply with the REIT asset tests, which could cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT. An increase in our borrowing costs relative to the interest we receive on our assets may impair our profitability and thus our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. As our repurchase agreements and other short-term borrowings mature, we must either enter into new borrowings or liquidate certain of our investments at times when we might otherwise not choose to do so. Lenders may seek to use a maturity date as an opportune time to demand additional terms or increased collateral requirements that could be adverse to us and harm our operations. An increase in short-term interest rates when we seek new borrowings would reduce the spread between our returns on our assets and the cost of our borrowings. This would reduce the returns on our assets which might reduce earnings and in turn cash available for dividends. We generally expect that the interest rates tied to our borrowings will adjust more rapidly than the interest rates tied to the assets in which we invest. Declines in the market values of our investments may adversely affect our financial results and credit availability, which may reduce our earnings and thus cash available for dividends. On January 1, 2008, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities — including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115. We plan to carry all of our RMBS and all swaps previously designated as a hedge at fair value with changes in fair value recorded directly into earnings. A decline in their values may reduce the book value of our assets. A decline in the market value of our assets, such as the decline we experienced in the fourth quarter of 2007 and early 2008, may adversely affect us, particularly where we have borrowed money based on the market value of those assets. In such case, the lenders may require, and have required, us to post additional collateral to support the borrowing. If we cannot post the additional collateral, we may have to rapidly liquidate assets at a time when we might not otherwise choose to do so and we may still be unable to post the required collateral, further harming our liquidity and subjecting us to liability to our lenders for the declines in the market values of the collateral. A reduction in credit available may reduce our earnings, liquidity and cash available for dividends. The current dislocations in the subprime mortgage sector, and the current weakness in the broader financial market, could adversely affect us and one or more of our lenders, which could result in increases in our borrowing costs, reductions in our liquidity and reductions in the value of the investments in our portfolio. While we currently have no direct exposure to subprime mortgages, the continuing dislocations in the subprime mortgage sector and the current weakness in the broader financial market could adversely affect one or more of the counterparties providing repurchase agreement funding for our RMBS portfolio and could cause those counterparties to be unwilling or unable to provide us with additional financing. This could potentially limit our ability to finance our investments and operations, increase our financing costs and reduce our liquidity. This risk is exacerbated by the fact that a substantial portion of our repurchase agreement financing is provided by a relatively small number of counterparties. If one or more major market participants fails or withdraws from the market, it could negatively impact the marketability of all fixed income securities, including government mortgage securities, and this could reduce the value of the securities in our portfolio, thus reducing our net book value. Furthermore, as we have recently experienced, if one or more of our counterparties are unwilling or unable to provide us with ongoing financing on terms that are acceptable to us, we may need to sell our investments at a time when prices are depressed, and we may be unable to obtain additional financing. If this were to occur, it could prevent us from complying with the REIT asset and income tests necessary to fulfill our REIT qualification requirements and otherwise materially harm our results of operations and financial outlook. Recent developments in the market for many types of mortgage products (including RMBS) have resulted in reduced liquidity for, and value of, these assets. Although this reduction in liquidity has been most acute 24 Table of Contents with regard to subprime assets, there has been an overall reduction in liquidity and value across the credit spectrum of mortgage products. In addition, the liquidity of our portfolio may also be adversely affected by margin calls under our repurchase agreements. Our repurchase agreements allow the counterparties, to varying degrees, to determine a new market value of the collateral to reflect current market conditions. If a counterparty determines that the value of the collateral has decreased, it may initiate a margin call and require us to either post additional collateral to cover such decrease or repay a portion of the outstanding borrowing, on minimal notice. A significant increase in margin calls, similar to the increase we experienced in early 2008, could materially adversely harm our liquidity, results of operations, financial condition, and business prospects. Additionally, in order to obtain cash to satisfy a margin call, we may be required to liquidate assets at a disadvantageous time, which could cause us to incur further losses and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and may impair our ability to maintain our current level of dividends. We may be unable to satisfy margin calls despite our attempts to sell assets, and our financial condition could deteriorate rapidly as a result. We may not be able to pay cash dividends on our capital stock. In the event that any of our financing agreements restrict our ability to pay cash dividends on shares of our capital stock, including our Series A Preferred Stock, we will be unable to pay cash dividends unless we can refinance amounts outstanding under those agreements or obtain appropriate waivers. Although the dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock would continue to accrue, we may pay dividends on shares of our Series A Preferred Stock only if we have legally available funds for such payment and are otherwise not restricted from making such payments. For example, a default under our first series of trust preferred securities would preclude us from paying dividends on any of our capital stock which could substantially harm the value of our equity and could materially damage our ability to qualify as a REIT and operate as a going concern. DFR and DCM are the subject of information requests by the SEC in an investigation that could result in SEC proceedings against us or DCM. Pursuant to a formal order of investigation, the SEC is investigating certain practices associated with the offer, purchase or sale of Collateralized Mortgage Obligations and Real Estate Mortgage Investment Conduits and the creation of re-REMICS. In connection with this investigation, the SEC has requested certain information from DFR and DCM relating to certain mortgage securities transactions effected by DCM for us in 2005 and 2006. It is possible that DFR or DCM could be subject to an SEC enforcement or other proceeding relating to the transactions. In that event, DFR or DCM could be subject to significant monetary fines or other damages or penalties, and DCM could incur reputational damage as an investment manager, which could reduce its ability to retain existing clients or investors or obtain new clients or investors. In addition, the continuation of the investigation could reduce the amount of time and attention that management can provide to our business and generate legal costs. Current conditions in the credit markets have necessitated recent workforce reductions, which may harm our business. Due to the current adverse credit market environment, we recently reduced our workforce by 13 employees, or approximately 10%, effective March 1, 2008. Many of the employees who were terminated possessed specific knowledge or expertise, and we may be unable to transfer that knowledge or expertise to our remaining employees. In that case, the absence of such employees will create significant operational difficulties. Further, the reduction in workforce may reduce employee morale and create concern among potential and existing employees about job security, which may lead to difficulty in hiring and increased turnover in our current workforce and place undue strain upon our operational resources. We may seek further reductions in our workforce which would compound the risks we face. As a result, our ability to respond to unexpected challenges may be impaired, and we may be unable to take advantage of new opportunities. 25 Table of Contents We may change our investment strategy without stockholder consent, which may result in riskier investments and our Board does not approve each investment decision made by management. We have not adopted a policy as to the amounts to be invested in any of our asset classes, including securities rated below investment grade. We may change our investment strategy, including the percentage of assets that may be invested in any particular asset class, or in a single issuer, at any time, without the consent of or notice to our stockholders. For example, we recently decided to focus our investment strategy on Agency RMBS that may produce a lower return in the long run than other asset classes in which we have traditionally invested. We might later determine to invest in assets that are riskier than the investments we are currently targeting. A change in our asset allocation could result in our investing in asset classes different from those described herein and may also entail significant transition costs. A change in our investment strategy may increase our exposure to interest rate risk, default risk and real estate market fluctuations, or alternatively may lower our expected rate of return and net spread, all of which could reduce our earnings, assets, stock price and our ability to pay dividends. We may be unable to complete securitization transactions. We may seek to securitize some of our assets to term fund an investment portfolio and free up cash for funding new investments. This is likely to involve creating a special-purpose vehicle, contributing a pool of our assets to the vehicle, and selling interests in the vehicle on a non-recourse basis to purchasers. We could retain all or a portion of the equity or rated debt tranches in the securitized pool of portfolio investments. We may need to finance our investments with relatively short-term credit facilities, until a sufficient quantity of securities is accumulated, with the intent of refinancing these facilities through a securitization such as a CDO issuance or other financing. However, we may not be able to acquire, during the period that our short-term facilities are available, a sufficient amount of eligible securities to maximize the efficiency of a CDO issuance. We also may not be able to obtain short-term warehouse credit facilities or to renew any such facilities after they expire, should we find it necessary to extend the facilities to allow more time to buy the necessary eligible securities for a long-term financing. The inability to renew the facilities may require us to seek more costly financing for our investments or to liquidate assets. In addition, conditions in the capital markets may make the issuance of a CDO impractical or impossible when we do have a sufficient pool of collateral. The inability to securitize our portfolio could hurt our performance. At the same time, the securitization of our portfolio investments might expose us to losses, as the equity and debt interests that we are likely to retain will tend to be risky and more likely to generate losses. The use of CDO financings with over-collateralization requirements and other structural restrictions may reduce our cash flow. If we issue CDOs, we expect that their terms will generally include certain structural restrictions and requirements. One such requirement is generally that the principal amount of assets must exceed the principal balance of the related liabilities by a certain amount, commonly referred to as over-collateralization, and that if certain delinquencies or losses exceed specified levels, which will be established based primarily on the analysis by the rating agencies of the characteristics of the assets collateralizing the bonds, our ability to receive net income from assets collateralizing the obligations will be restricted. We cannot be certain that the over-collateralization tests or any other structural restrictions will be satisfied. In advance of completing negotiations with the rating agencies or other key transaction parties on our future CDO financings, we cannot be certain of the actual terms of the CDO, over-collateralization terms, cash flow release mechanisms or other significant factors regarding the calculation of net income to us. Failure to obtain favorable terms on these matters may hurt our performance. A decline in operating cash flow would impair our ability to maximize our dividend payout. As a REIT, we generally must distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income to our stockholders. Our ability to make and sustain cash distributions is based on many factors, some of which are beyond our control. Our ability to achieve attractive risk-adjusted returns depends on our ability both to 26 Table of Contents generate sufficient cash flow to pay an attractive dividend and to achieve capital appreciation. We may be unable to do either, and we may not generate sufficient revenue from operations to pay our operating expenses or make or sustain dividends to stockholders. We may materially reduce dividends relative to historical levels or cease dividends in the future, which could adversely affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. Our future dividends, if any, may be substantially less and paid infrequently as compared to our dividend payments in the past. In connection with REIT requirements, we have historically made regular quarterly distributions of all or substantially all of our REIT taxable income to holders of our common stock. As discussed further in “Part II — Item 7. Management’s Discuss and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Recent Developments,” we recently sold the vast majority of our AAA-rated non-Agency RMBS portfolio and significantly reduced our Agency RMBS holdings at a significant net loss. We therefore expect our future distributions to be substantially less than amounts paid in prior years. Additionally, although we have historically made regular quarterly distributions of all or substantially all of our REIT taxable income, we may pay future dividends less frequently and we may only distribute that amount of our taxable income required to maintain our REIT qualification. Furthermore, we may elect to pay future dividends in the form of additional shares of our stock rather than cash. We may not have adequate liquidity to make these or any other distributions. Any future distributions we make will be at the discretion of our Board and will depend upon, among other things, our actual results of operations. Our results of operations and ability to pay distributions will be affected by various factors, including our liquidity, the net interest and other income from our portfolio, our investment management fees, our operating expenses and other expenditures, as well as covenants contained in the terms of our indebtedness. Rapid changes in the values of our RMBS and other real estate-related investments may make it more difficult for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT or exemption from the 1940 Act. If the market value or income potential of our RMBS and other real estate-related investments declines as a result of increased interest rates, prepayment rates or other factors, we may need to increase our real estate investments and income or liquidate our non-qualifying assets in order to maintain our REIT qualification or exemption from the 1940 Act. If the decline in real estate asset values or income occurs quickly, this may be especially difficult to accomplish, and may be exacerbated by the illiquid nature of many of our non-real estate assets. We may have to make investment decisions that we otherwise would not make absent the REIT and 1940 Act requirements. We may enter into warehouse agreements in connection with our planned investment in the equity securities of CDOs or DCM’s planned management of a CDO, and if the CDO investment is not consummated, the warehoused collateral will be sold, and we may be required to bear any loss resulting from such sale. In connection with our investment in CDOs or DCM’s planned management of a CDO, we may enter into warehouse agreements with warehouse providers such as investment banks or other financial institutions, pursuant to which the warehouse provider will initially finance the purchase of the collateral that will be ultimately transferred to the CDO. DCM will typically select the collateral. If the CDO transaction is not consummated, the warehouse provider will liquidate the warehoused collateral and we may be required to pay any amount by which the purchase price of the collateral exceeds its sale price and may be liable for certain of the expenses associated with the warehouse or planned CDO, subject to any negotiated caps on our exposure. In addition, regardless of whether the CDO transaction is consummated, if any of the warehoused collateral is sold before the consummation, we may have to bear any resulting loss on the sale. The amount at risk in connection with the warehouse agreements supporting our investments in CDOs will vary and may not be limited to the amount that we have agreed to invest in the equity securities of the CDO. Although we would expect to complete the CDO transaction within about six to nine months after the warehouse agreement is signed, we may not be able to complete the transaction within the expected time period or at all. 27 Table of Contents Our business could be impaired if we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel. As a self-managed company, we depend on the diligence, experience, skill and network of business contacts of our executive officers and employees for the evaluation, negotiation, structuring and monitoring of our investments. Our business depends on the expertise of our personnel and their ability to work together as an effective team. Our success depends substantially on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. In particular, we anticipate that it may be necessary for us to add investment professionals if we further diversify our investment products and strategies. Competition for employees with the necessary qualifications is intense and we may not be successful in our efforts to recruit and retain the required personnel. The inability to retain and recruit qualified personnel could affect our ability to provide an acceptable level of service to our clients and funds and our ability to attract new clients, including investors in our funds, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business. Failure to procure adequate capital and funding would hurt our results and reduce the price of our stock and our ability to pay dividends. We depend upon the availability of adequate funding and capital for our operations. As a REIT, we generally must distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income to our stockholders, and therefore cannot retain significant amounts of our earnings for new investments. However, TRSs such as TRS Inc., are able to retain their earnings for investment in new capital, subject to the REIT requirements which limit the relative value of TRS stock and securities owned by a REIT. The failure to secure acceptable financing could reduce our taxable income, as our investments would no longer generate the same level of net interest income due to the lack of funding or increase in funding costs. A reduction in our net income would impair our liquidity and our ability to pay dividends. We cannot assure our stockholders that any, or sufficient, funding or capital will be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable to us. Therefore, if we cannot obtain sufficient funding on acceptable terms, there may be a negative impact on the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions. We may in the future issue shares of additional capital stock, to raise proceeds for a wide variety of purposes, which could dilute and therefore reduce the value of our existing outstanding capital stock. We may seek to issue shares of our capital stock, either in public offerings, private transactions or both, to raise additional capital. Such issuances could substantially dilute the stock of our existing stockholders without corresponding increase in value. We may raise capital for a wide variety of purposes, such as buying real estate assets to help our continued qualification as a REIT, implementing our business plan and repayment of indebtedness. Our management will have broad discretion over how we use the proceeds of any capital raise. We may not be able to raise capital at the time or times that we wish, in the amounts we wish, or on the terms or at the prices we consider favorable to us and our stockholders. We may not issue preferred stock that is senior to, or on par with, the Series A Preferred Stock with respect to dividends or liquidation rights without the consent of the holders of 80% of the shares of the Series A Preferred Stock. We may use the proceeds of any future offering in ways in which holders of our capital stock disagree and that yield less than our expected return, or no return at all, which could result in substantial losses to us. Future classes of capital stock may impose, and our currently outstanding Series A Preferred Stock and trust preferred securities do impose, significant covenants and obligations on us and our operations. Our Series A Preferred Stock and trust preferred securities impose, and future classes of capital stock may impose, certain covenants and obligations on us and our operations. Failure to abide by such covenants or satisfy such obligations could trigger certain rights for the holders of such securities, which could have a material and adverse effect on us and impair our operating results. Breaches of certain covenants may prohibit us from making future dividends and distributions to our stockholders. A failure to make future dividends and distributions to our stockholders may cause us to incur a significant tax liability or lose our REIT qualification. In addition, breaches of covenants and any subsequent loss of our REIT qualification may result in decreased revenues if investors in the accounts managed by DCM withdraw their investments. See “Risks Relating to Our Investment Management Segment” below for addition detail on investors’ withdrawal rights. 28 Table of Contents Loss of our 1940 Act exemption would adversely affect us and reduce the market price of our shares and our ability to pay dividends. In order to be exempt from regulation under the 1940 Act, we must meet certain exclusions from the definition of an investment company. Because we conduct our business through wholly-owned subsidiaries, we also must ensure that each subsidiary so qualifies. To ensure that our subsidiary, DC LLC, is not regulated under the 1940 Act, we must ensure that at least 55% of its assets consist of qualifying real estate assets and at least 80% of its assets consist of real estate-related assets (including qualifying real estate assets). And, we generally must ensure that each of our other subsidiaries meets this 55%/80% test or another 1940 Act test — namely, that the subsidiary does not publicly offer its securities and that each owner of the subsidiary is a qualified purchaser. Finally, to ensure that each of DFR and Deerfield qualifies for an exclusion from regulation under the 1940 Act, we must ensure that no more than 40% of its assets, on an unconsolidated basis, excluding government securities and cash, are investment securities as defined in the 1940 Act. If we fail to satisfy the requirements in the 1940 Act to preserve our exemptions from regulation thereunder, we could be required to materially restructure our activities and to register as an investment company under the 1940 Act, which could significantly impair our operating results and result in substantial expense. Failure to develop effective business continuity plans could disrupt our operations and cause financial losses. We operate in an industry that is highly dependent on information systems and technology. We depend to a substantial degree on the availability of our office facilities and the proper functioning of our computer and telecommunications systems. Although we have established a significant disaster recovery program, a disaster, such as water damage to our office, an explosion or a prolonged loss of electrical power, could materially interrupt our business operations and cause material financial loss, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability, which, in turn, could depress our stock price. Additionally, we cannot assure holders of our capital stock that our information systems and technology will continue to be able to accommodate our growth, or that the cost of maintaining those services and technology will not materially increase from its current level. Such a failure to accommodate growth, or an increase in costs related to these information systems, could have a material and adverse effect on us. We could incur losses due to trading errors. DCM could make errors in placing transaction orders for client accounts, such as purchasing a security for an account whose investment guidelines prohibit the account from holding the security, purchasing an unintended amount of the security, or placing a buy order when DCM intended to place a sell order, or vice-versa. If the transaction resulted in a loss for the account, DCM might be required to reimburse the account for the loss. Such reimbursements could be substantial. These errors could affect trades on behalf of DFR, which could exacerbate the adverse financial impact on us. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. We compete for investments with various other investors, such as other REITs, public and private funds, commercial and investment banks and commercial finance companies. Many of our competitors are substantially larger than us and have considerably more financial and other resources. Other REITs may have investment objectives that overlap with ours, which may create competition for investment opportunities with limited supply. Some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us, and may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. The competitive pressures we face could impair our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time. 29 Table of Contents Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may affect the market for our stock, the industry in which we conduct our operations and our profitability. Terrorist attacks may harm our results of operations and the investment of our stockholders. We have no assurance that there will not be further terrorist attacks against the United States or U.S. businesses. These attacks or armed conflicts may directly impact the property underlying our ABS securities or the securities markets in general. These attacks could also severely harm our asset management operations. Losses resulting from these types of events are generally uninsurable. More generally, any of these events could reduce consumer confidence and spending or increase volatility in the United States and worldwide financial markets and economy. Adverse economic conditions could harm the value of the property underlying our ABS or the securities markets in general, which could reduce our operating results and revenues and increase the volatility of our holdings. Risks Related to Our Principal Investing Segment We may not realize gains or income from our investments. We seek to generate both current income and capital appreciation, but our assets may not appreciate in value (and may decline) and the debt securities may default on interest or principal payments. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains or income from our investments, and the gains that we do realize may not be enough to offset our losses. The income that we realize may not be sufficient to offset our expenses. We will lose money on our repurchase transactions if the counterparty to the transaction defaults on its obligation to resell the underlying security back to us at the end of the transaction term, or if the value of the underlying security has declined as of the end of that term or if we default on our obligations under the repurchase agreement. We obtain a significant portion of our funding through repurchase facilities. When we engage in a repurchase transaction, we generally sell securities to the transaction counterparty and receive cash from the counterparty. The counterparty is obligated to resell the securities back to us at the end of the term of the transaction, which is currently one to 30 days. Because the cash we receive from the counterparty when we initially sell the securities is less than the value of those securities (by the margin), if the counterparty defaulted on its obligation to resell the securities back to us we would incur a loss on the transaction equal to such margin (assuming no change in the value of the securities). We would also lose money on a repurchase transaction if the value of the underlying securities has declined as of the end of the transaction term, as we would have to repurchase the securities for their initial value but would receive securities worth less than that amount. Any losses we incur on our repurchase transactions could adversely affect our earnings and thus our dividend. Certain of our repurchase agreements include negative covenants and collateral posting requirements that, if breached, may cause our repurchase transactions to be terminated early, in which event our counterparty could terminate all repurchase transactions existing with us and make any amount due by us to the counterparty payable immediately. If we have to terminate outstanding repurchase transactions and are unable to negotiate new and acceptable funding terms, our liquidity will be impaired. This may reduce the amount of capital available for investing or reduce our ability to distribute dividends. In addition, we may have to liquidate assets at a time when we might not otherwise choose to do so. There is no assurance we would be able to establish suitable replacement facilities. We remain subject to losses on our mortgage portfolio despite our strategy of investing in highly-rated and Agency RMBS. A significant portion of our assets is invested in RMBS that are either Agency RMBS or rated investment grade by at least one rating agency. While highly-rated RMBS are generally subject to a lower risk of default than lower credit quality RMBS, and may benefit from third-party credit enhancements such as insurance or corporate guarantees, such RMBS have been subject to significant credit losses. We have recently decided to 30 Table of Contents focus our investment strategy on Agency RMBS. Ratings may change over time as a result of a number of factors, including greater than expected delinquencies, defaults or credit losses, or a deterioration in the financial strength of corporate guarantors, any of which may reduce the market value of such securities. Furthermore, ratings do not take into account the reasonableness of the issue price, interest rate risk, prepayment risk, extension risk or other risks associated with such RMBS. As a result, while we attempt to mitigate our exposure to credit risk in our mortgage portfolio on a relative basis by focusing on highly-rated RMBS, we cannot completely eliminate credit risk in these instruments. Changes in prepayment rates could reduce the value of our RMBS, which could reduce our earnings and the cash available for dividends. In the case of residential mortgage loans, there are seldom any restrictions on borrowers’ abilities to prepay their loans. Homeowners tend to prepay mortgage loans faster when interest rates fall. Consequently, owners of the loans have to reinvest the money received from the prepayments at the lower prevailing interest rates. Conversely, homeowners tend not to prepay mortgage loans when interest rates rise. As a result, owners of the loans are unable to reinvest money that would have otherwise been received from prepayments at the higher rates. This volatility in prepayment rates may impair our ability to maintain targeted amounts of leverage on our mortgage-backed securities portfolio and result in reduced earnings or losses and reduce the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Holding Agency RMBS does not protect us against prepayment risks. We have incurred substantial impairments of our assets and may incur significant impairments in the future. Due to a variety of factors, including current adverse market conditions affecting the market for RMBS, we have incurred substantial impairments of our assets. These impairments have resulted in significant losses. Our assets, including our RMBS, may suffer additional impairments in the future causing us to recognize additional significant losses. Investors and lenders alike could lose confidence in the quality and value of our assets. These impairments, or the perception that these impairments may occur, can depress our stock price, harm our liquidity and materially adversely impact our results of operations. We may be forced to sell substantial assets at a time when the market is depressed in order to support or enhance our liquidity. Despite our need to sell substantial assets, we may be unable to make such sales on favorable terms or at all, further materially damaging our liquidity and operations. If we are unable to maintain adequate liquidity as a result of these impairments or otherwise, holders of our capital stock could lose some or all of their investment. Our investment portfolio is heavily concentrated in adjustable-rate RMBS and we might not be able to achieve or sustain a more diversified portfolio. As of December 31, 2007, 89.3% of our investment portfolio consisted of RMBS of which 79.5% were adjustable-rate. One of our key strategic objectives is to achieve a more diversified portfolio of investments that delivers attractive risk-adjusted returns. We might not succeed in this respect, and even if we do, a significant portion of our fully leveraged assets will likely be adjustable-rate RMBS. If we cannot achieve a more diversified portfolio, we will be particularly exposed to the investment risks that relate to investments in adjustable-rate RMBS, and we may suffer losses if those investments decline in value. Legislation may be introduced that would prevent lenders from increasing the interest rates on adjustable-rate mortgages, which could negatively impact our net interest income and harm our operations. We have recently decided to focus our investment strategy on Agency RMBS and expect that a significant amount of the RMBS we hold will consist of three- and five-year hybrid adjustable-rate RMBS. Due to the current crisis in the subprime mortgage market and the resulting weakness in broader mortgage market, it is foreseeable that legislation may be introduced at the federal or state level seeking to impose restrictions on the ability of lenders to increase the interest rate on adjustable-rate mortgages. Future federal or state legislative or regulatory action that restricts or prohibits increases in the interest rates of adjustable-rate mortgages could 31 Table of Contents reduce the net interest income we expect to receive, impair the value of our assets and otherwise have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our real estate investments are subject to risks particular to real property. We own assets secured by real estate and may own real estate directly. Real estate investments are subject to various risks, including: • declining real estate values, as is currently being experienced in many parts of the United States; • acts of God, including earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters, which may result in uninsured losses; • acts of war or terrorism, including the consequences of terrorist attacks, such as those that occurred on September 11, 2001; • adverse changes in national and local economic and market conditions; • changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and the related costs of compliance with laws and regulations, fiscal policies and ordinances; • costs of remediation and liabilities associated with environmental conditions; and • the potential for uninsured or under-insured property losses. The occurrence of these or similar events may reduce our return from an affected property or investment and impair our ability to make distributions to stockholders. The mortgage loans underlying our RMBS are subject to delinquency, foreclosure and loss, which could result in losses to us. Residential mortgage loans are secured by single-family residential property. They are subject to risks of delinquency and foreclosure, and risks of loss. The ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by a residential property depends on the income or assets of the borrower. Many factors may impair borrowers’ abilities and willingness to repay their loans, including economic recession, job loss and declining real estate values. Commercial mortgage loans are secured by multi-family or commercial property. They are subject to risks of delinquency and foreclosure, and risks of loss that can be greater than similar risks associated with loans made on the security of single-family residential property. The ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by an income-producing property typically is dependent primarily upon the successful operation of the property rather than upon the existence of independent income or assets of the borrower. If the net operating income of the property is reduced, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Such income can be affected by many factors. In the event of any default under a mortgage loan held directly by us, we will bear a risk of loss of principal to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the collateral and the principal and accrued interest of the mortgage loan. This could impair our cash flow from operations. In the event of the bankruptcy of a mortgage loan borrower, the loan will be deemed secured only to the extent of the value of the underlying collateral at the time of bankruptcy (as determined by the bankruptcy court). The lien securing the mortgage loan will be subject to the avoidance powers of the bankruptcy trustee or debtor-in-possession to the extent the lien is unenforceable under state law. Foreclosure of a mortgage loan can be expensive and lengthy. This could impair our anticipated return on the foreclosed mortgage loan. RMBS represent interests in or are secured by pools of residential mortgage loans and CMBS represent interests in or are secured by a single commercial mortgage loan or a pool of commercial mortgage loans. Accordingly, the RMBS we invest in are subject to all of the risks of the underlying mortgage loans. 32 Table of Contents Our Corporate Debt portfolio includes debt of middle market companies. Investment in middle market companies involves a number of significant risks, including: • these companies may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their debt securities that we hold, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of us realizing any guarantees we may have obtained in connection with our investment; • they typically have shorter operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns; • they are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on our portfolio company and, in turn, on us; and • they generally have less predictable operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position. In addition, our executive officers, directors and our investment adviser may, in the ordinary course of business, be named as defendants in litigation arising from our investments in the portfolio companies. In addition, middle market companies may incur debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, our investments in such companies. Our investments in middle market companies consist primarily of mezzanine and senior debt securities. Middle market companies usually have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, the debt securities in which we invest. By their terms, such debt instruments may provide that the holders thereof are entitled to receive payment of interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments in respect of the debt securities in which we invest. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a middle market company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investment in that company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution in respect of our investment. After repaying such senior creditors, the company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to us. In the case of debt ranking equally with debt securities in which we invest, we would have to share on an equal basis any distributions with other creditors holding such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant company. In addition, we may not be in a position to control any middle market company by investing in its debt securities. As a result, we are subject to the risk that the company in which we invest may make business decisions with which we disagree and the management of such company, as representatives of the holders of their common equity, may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not serve our interests as debt investors. We may invest in the equity and mezzanine securities of CDOs, and such investments involve various risks, including that CDO equity receives distributions from the CDO only if the CDO generates enough income to first pay the holders of its debt securities and its expenses. Our assets include the equity and/or mezzanine securities of two CDOs (Market Square CLO and DFR MM CLO), as well as DCM’s investments in the equity securities of certain of the CDOs that it manages, and we may buy equity securities of other CDOs. A CDO is a special purpose vehicle that purchases collateral (such as loans or asset-backed securities) that is expected to generate a stream of interest or other income. The CDO issues various classes of securities that participate in that income stream, typically one or more classes of debt instruments and a class of equity securities. The equity is usually entitled to all of the income generated by the CDO after the CDO pays all of the interest due on the debt securities and its expenses. However, there will be little or no income available to the CDO equity if there are defaults on the underlying collateral in excess of certain amounts or if the recoveries on such defaulted collateral are less than certain amounts. In that event, the value of our investment in the CDO’s equity could decrease substantially. In 33 Table of Contents addition, the equity securities of CDOs are generally illiquid, and because they represent a leveraged investment in the CDO’s assets, their value will generally fluctuate more than the values of the underlying collateral. Increases in interest rates could reduce the value of our investments, which could result in losses or reduced earnings and reduce the cash available dividends. We invest indirectly in mortgage loans by purchasing RMBS. Under a normal yield curve where long-term rates are higher than short-term rates, the market value of an investment in RMBS will decline in value if long-term interest rates increase. Despite the fact that certain of the RMBS we own is Agency RMBS, we are not protected from declines in market value caused by changes in interest rates, which may ultimately reduce earnings or result in losses to us, which may reduce cash available for distribution to our stockholders. A significant risk of our RMBS investment is that both long-term and short-term interest rates will increase significantly. If long-term rates increased significantly, the market value of these RMBS would decline and the duration and weighted average life of the investments would increase. We could realize a loss if the securities were sold. At the same time, an increase in short-term interest rates would increase the amount of interest owed on the repurchase agreements we may enter into in order to finance the purchase of RMBS. Some of our investments are recorded at values based on estimates of fair value made by management, and there is thus uncertainty as to the value of these investments. Some of our investments are securities that are not publicly traded. The fair value of such investments is not readily determinable. Depending on the accounting classification, these investments can be carried at fair value, lower of cost or market, or amortized cost with a loan loss reserve. Each of these carrying values is based on an estimate of fair value. Management reports estimated fair value of these investments quarterly. Because such valuations are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these securities existed. Our stock price could fall if our carrying values based on determinations of fair value of these investments are materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon their disposal. The lack of liquidity in our investments may impair our results. We invest in securities that are not publicly traded. Some of these securities may be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or may be less liquid than publicly traded securities for other reasons. This may make it difficult for us to liquidate such investments if the need arises. In addition, if we must liquidate all or a portion of our investments quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded the investments. We may face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a business entity if we have material non-public information regarding the issuer. A prolonged economic slowdown, a recession or declining real estate values could impair our investments and harm our operating results. Many of our investments may be susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions, which could lead to losses on those investments and a decrease in revenues, net income and assets. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in lenders not extending credit to us, all of which could impair our operating results. Real estate values have been declining in many areas throughout the United States and such decline could spread further and accelerate, resulting in substantial losses. Our interest rate hedging transactions may not completely insulate us from interest rate risk. We typically engage in certain hedging transactions to seek to limit our exposure to changes in interest rates, but this may expose us to separate risks associated with such hedging transactions. We use instruments such as forward contracts and interest rate swaps, caps, collars and floors to seek to hedge against mismatches 34 Table of Contents between the cash flows on our assets and the interest payments on our liabilities or fluctuations in the relative values of our portfolio positions, in each case resulting from changes in interest rates. Hedging against a decline in the values of our portfolio positions does not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the values of these positions or prevent losses if the values decline. Such hedging transactions may also limit the opportunity for gain if the positions increase. Moreover, it may not be possible to hedge against an interest rate fluctuation that is widely anticipated. We may enter into hedging transactions to seek to reduce interest rate risks. However, unanticipated changes in interest rates may result in poorer overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in any hedging. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions being hedged may vary. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not seek to establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the portfolio holdings being hedged. This may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss. Hedging instruments often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities and involve risks and costs. The cost of using hedging instruments increases as the period covered by the instrument increases and during periods of rising and volatile interest rates. We may increase our hedging activity and thus our hedging costs when interest rates are volatile or rising. Hedging instruments involve the risk that they often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities. Consequently, there may be no requirements with respect to record keeping, financial responsibility or segregation of customer funds and positions with regard to such transactions. The enforceability of agreements underlying derivative transactions may depend on compliance with various legal requirements and, depending on the identity of the counterparty, non-U.S. legal requirements. The business failure of a hedging counterparty of ours will most likely result in a default, which may result in the loss of unrealized profits and force us to cover our resale commitments at the then current market price. Although we will generally seek to reserve the right to terminate our hedging positions, it may not always be possible to dispose of or close out a hedging position without the consent of the hedging counterparty, and we may not be able to enter into an offsetting contract in order to cover our risk. A liquid secondary market might not always exist for our hedging instruments, and we may have to hold a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in losses. Our derivative contracts could expose us to unexpected economic losses. Our investment strategy involves entering into derivative contracts that could require us to fund cash payments in the future under certain circumstances, e.g., the early termination of the derivative agreement caused by an event of default or other early termination event, or the decision by a counterparty to request margin securities that we owe it under the derivative contract. The amount due would be the unrealized loss of the open positions with the counterparty and could also include fees and charges. These economic losses will be reflected in our financial results, and our ability to fund these obligations will depend on the liquidity of our assets and access to capital at the time. The need to fund these obligations could hurt our financial condition. Our dependence on the management of other entities may adversely affect our business. We do not control the management, investment decisions or operations of the enterprises in which we have invested. Management of those enterprises may decide to change the nature of their assets, or management may otherwise change in a manner that is not satisfactory to us. We typically have no ability to affect these management decisions and we may have only limited ability to dispose of our investments. 35 Table of Contents Our due diligence may not reveal all of an issuer’s liabilities and may not reveal other weaknesses in its business. Before investing in a company, we assess the strength and skills of its management and other factors that we believe are material to the performance of the investment. In this process, we rely on the resources available to us and, in some cases, an investigation by third parties. This process is particularly important and subjective with respect to new companies because there may be little or no information publicly available about them. Our due diligence processes might not uncover all relevant facts, thus resulting in investment losses. Risks Related to the Merger We may not have uncovered all risks associated with acquiring Deerfield, and significant liabilities may arise after completion of the Merger. There may be risks that we failed or were unable to discover in the course of performing our due diligence in connection with the completion of the Merger. All of Deerfield’s liabilities will remain intact after the Merger, whether pre-existing or contingent, as a matter of law. While we tried to minimize this risk by conducting due diligence, there could be numerous liabilities that we failed to identify. Any significant liability that may arise or be discovered after the closing may harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Further, any rights to indemnification we have are limited in amount and by time. The Merger may subject our performance to significant risks that are associated with DCM’s business to which we have not historically been subject. Historically we have been a financial company that invests primarily in RMBS and other real estate investments, as well as corporate investments. We generate risk-adjusted spread-based income from our investment portfolio. DCM is a Chicago based, SEC-registered asset manager. DCM generates fee-based revenue from the management of these client funds. Accordingly, while the completion of the Merger significantly diversified our business, it may have also subjected us to significant new risks and uncertainties associated with DCM’s business to which we have not historically been subject. DCM’s business may be harmed by it becoming our subsidiary. DCM’s status as our subsidiary may make it difficult for DCM to retain existing clients, including the underlying investors in the investment funds DCM manages, and to attract new clients. Such clients may determine that DCM has an incentive to favor its management of our Principal Investing segment over DCM’s investing for those clients, particularly if the client account is likely to compete with us, for example with regard to the allocation of scarce investment opportunities. While we cannot predict the effect on DCM’s business that will result from DCM becoming our wholly-owned subsidiary, the completion of the Merger could have an adverse effect on DCM’s existing and future client relationships and its business and revenues. Our ownership of Deerfield might jeopardize our 1940 Act exemption or limit our ability to implement our investment strategy and thus reduce our earnings and ability to pay dividends. In order to be exempt from regulation under the 1940 Act, we — and each of our subsidiaries — must qualify for one of the exemptions from investment company status in the 1940 Act. Our ownership of Deerfield will be held through our subsidiary DC LLC, which relies on an exemption from investment company status that generally requires it to maintain at least 55% of its assets in specified real estate assets and at least 80% of its assets in real estate and real-estate related securities. DC LLC’s ownership interest in Deerfield will not constitute such a security, and thus may make it more difficult for DC LLC to comply with the 80% asset test. As a result, we will need to monitor carefully DC LLC’s compliance with the 80% asset test, and the Merger may make it difficult for DC LLC to acquire other assets that do not qualify as real estate or real estate related securities, even if such assets might have generated higher returns than an investment in Deerfield. If DC LLC fails to meet the 80% asset test, we could be required to materially restructure our 36 Table of Contents activities and to register as an investment company under the 1940 Act, which could prevent us from carrying out our Principal Investing strategy and otherwise impair our operating results. Our status as a proprietary account of DCM might restrict DCM’s management of our investing. For regulatory purposes, we are likely to be considered a “proprietary” account of DCM. This may restrict DCM’s management of our account, for example with regard to “crossing” transactions between our account and the account of a non-proprietary DCM client. DCM may not be successful in managing these restrictions after the completion of the Merger. We may not be able to realize the projected economic benefits of the Merger. We may have incorrectly evaluated the financial and other benefits of the Merger or misjudged the timeframe in which we would be able to realize such benefits following the Merger. Despite our belief, the acquisition may not enhance our long-term growth opportunities. The Merger may not provide us the opportunity to deploy a portion of our capital to higher growth, higher fee product opportunities that we believe are available in DCM’s platform or we may not have capital available to do so due to liquidity restraints. DCM’s investment platforms may not be scalable as we expect. Further, we may not realize any benefit from our perception that the internalization of our manager better aligns the interests of management with that of our stockholders. These benefits and others may not be realized as a result of the Merger. We have always been externally managed and we may not be able to successfully transition to an internally managed company. We have always been externally managed and did not employ our own management personnel until the Merger. If we do not successfully transition to an internally managed company and otherwise successfully integrate Deerfield’s operations, our operations and financial performance could be significantly damaged. In addition, there may be significant costs incurred in connection with such integration and it may divert management’s attention from other important matters. We incurred additional indebtedness in order to consummate the Merger and our increased leverage could adversely affect our financial health. As of December 31, 2007, our total long-term outstanding debt on a consolidated basis was approximately $775.4 million. In order to complete the Merger, we incurred an additional approximately $74 million of indebtedness, and we also assumed debt of Deerfield outstanding as of December 21, 2007 in the amount of $1.7 million. Our indebtedness and the covenants and obligations contained therein could adversely affect our financial health and business and future operations by, among other things: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations, including with respect to our indebtedness; • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain any additional financing we may need to operate, develop and expand our business; • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of any cash flows to service our debt, which reduces our funds available for operations and future business opportunities; • potentially making us more highly leveraged than our competitors, which could potentially decrease our ability to compete in our industry; • increasing our exposure to risks of interest rate fluctuations as most of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest; and • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, and the industry in which we operate. 37 Table of Contents Our ability to make payments on our debt will depend upon our future operating performance, which is subject to general economic and competitive conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which we cannot control. If the cash flows from our operations are insufficient to service our debt obligations, we may take actions, such as delaying or reducing capital expenditures, attempting to restructure or refinance our debt, selling assets or operations or seeking additional equity capital. Any or all of these actions may not be sufficient to allow us to service our debt obligations. Further, we may be unable to take any of these actions on satisfactory terms, in a timely manner or at all. We may also fail to meet other obligations we owe to the holders of our senior notes or other indebtedness which may result in an event of default with damaging consequences. Our failure to generate sufficient funds to pay our debts or to successfully undertake any of these actions could, among other things, materially adversely affect the market value of our common stock and our ability to repay our obligations under our indebtedness. Risks Related to Our Investment Management Segment The income from Deerfield and DCM will be subject to federal, state and local income tax, and our ownership of Deerfield and DCM may jeopardize our REIT qualification and may limit our ability to conduct our investment strategy. Deerfield’s income consists solely of the income earned by DCM, which consists primarily of advisory fee income. That advisory fee income is not qualifying income for purposes of either the 75% or 95% gross income test applicable to REITs. A REIT, however, may own stock and securities in one or more TRSs that may earn income that would not be qualifying income if earned directly by the parent REIT. Consequently, we hold our ownership interest in Deerfield and DCM through two domestic TRSs, the Deerfield TRSs. Overall, no more than 20% of the value of a REIT’s assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more TRSs. A TRS pays federal, state and local income tax at regular corporate rates on any income it earns. In addition, the TRS rules limit the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a TRS to its parent REIT to assure that the TRS is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation. The rules also impose a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis. Because we hold our ownership interest in Deerfield and DCM through the Deerfield TRSs, the income earned by Deerfield and DCM will be fully subject to federal, state and local income tax. Moreover, the value of our investment in the stock and securities of our TRSs may not, in the aggregate, exceed 20% of the value of our total assets. In addition, our income from our TRSs, combined with our other nonqualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test, may not exceed 25% of our gross income on an annual basis. Accordingly, our ownership of Deerfield and DCM may limit our ability to invest in other TRSs and other assets that produce nonqualifying income, even though such investments would otherwise have been in accordance with our investment strategy. DCM’s revenues fluctuate based on the amount or value of client assets, which could decrease for various reasons including investment losses and withdrawal of capital. DCM’s success depends on its ability to earn investment advisory fees from the client accounts it manages. Such fees generally consist of payments based on the amount of assets in the account (management fees) and on the profits earned by the account or the returns to certain investors in the account (performance fees). If there is a reduction in an account’s assets, there will be a corresponding reduction in DCM’s management fees from the account and a likely reduction in DCM’s performance fees (if any) relating to the account, since the smaller the account’s asset base, the smaller the potential profits earned by the account. There could be a reduction in an account’s assets as the result of investment losses in the account, the withdrawal by investors of some or all of their capital in the account or forced liquidation of the assets in the account. The performance fees payable by the investment funds managed by DCM have a “high water mark” feature, under which, in general, a performance fee is payable by the fund to DCM only for measurement periods when the fund’s net profits exceed any net losses carried forward from previous measurement periods. The main investment fund managed by DCM had significant net losses in 2007, and DCM generally will not earn a performance fee from this fund for 2008 or subsequent years except to the extent, if any, that the fund’s net profits for the year exceed the net losses carried forward from 2007 or subsequent years. 38 Table of Contents Investors in the accounts managed by DCM have various types of withdrawal rights, ranging from the right of investors in separately managed accounts to withdraw any or all of their capital on a daily basis, the right of investors in investment funds to withdraw their capital on a monthly or quarterly basis, and the right of investors in CDOs to terminate the CDO or DCM as the CDO’s manager in specified situations. Investors in investment funds and separately managed accounts might withdraw capital for many reasons, including their dissatisfaction with the account’s returns or volatility, adverse publicity regarding DCM, adverse financial developments at DCM or DFR, DCM’s loss of key personnel, errors in reporting to investors account values or account performance, other matters resulting from problems in DCM’s systems technology, investors’ desire to invest their capital elsewhere, and their need (in the case of investors that are themselves investment funds) for the capital to fund withdrawals by their investors. DCM could experience a major loss of account assets, and thus advisory fee revenue, at any time. The main investment fund managed by DCM experienced significant performance volatility, and net losses, in the fourth quarter of 2007, and the fund experienced withdrawals of investor capital as of the end of that quarter. We believe that the recent credit market dislocations may cause this fund, or other funds, to experience further performance volatility, which could lead to additional losses or withdrawals of capital from those funds. DCM’s performance fees may increase earnings volatility, which could depress our stock price. Historically, a significant portion of DCM’s revenues has been derived from performance fees on the various accounts that DCM manages. Performance fees are generally based on the profits DCM generates for client accounts or the returns to certain investors in those accounts. With respect to DCM’s investment funds, these performance fees have a “high water mark” feature, under which, in general, a performance fee is payable by the fund to DCM only for measurement periods when the fund’s net profits exceed any net losses carried forward from previous measurement periods. With respect to DCM’s CDOs, DCM is entitled to performance fees only if the returns on the related portfolios exceed agreed-upon periodic or cumulative return targets. Performance fees, if any, will vary from period to period in relation to volatility in investment returns, causing DCM’s earnings to be more volatile than if it did not manage assets on a performance fee basis. The recent credit market dislocations have significantly increased the volatility of the investment funds managed by DCM. Also, alternative asset managers typically derive a greater portion of their revenues from performance fees than traditional asset managers, thus increasing the potential volatility in DCM’s earnings. The volatility in DCM’s earnings may depress our stock price. Poor investment performance could lead to a loss of clients and a decline in DCM’s revenues. Investment performance is a key factor for the retention of client assets, the growth of DCM’s AUM and the generation of investment advisory fee revenue. Poor investment performance, including downgrades of ratings assigned to DCM or the portfolios it manages, could impair DCM’s revenues and growth because: • existing clients might withdraw funds in favor of better performing products, which would result in lower investment advisory fees for DCM; • DCM’s subordinate management fees for a CDO may be deferred or never received; • DCM’s ability to attract funds from existing and new clients might diminish; and • DCM might earn minimal or no performance fees. The failure of DCM’s investment products to perform well both on an absolute basis and in relation to competing products, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on DCM’s business. DCM derives much of its revenues from contracts that may be terminated on short notice. DCM derives a substantial portion of its revenues from investment management agreements with accounts that generally have the right to remove DCM as the investment advisor of the account and replace it with a substitute investment advisor under certain conditions. Some of these investment management agreements may be terminated for various reasons, including failure to follow the account’s investment guidelines, fraud, breach of fiduciary duty and gross negligence, or, alternatively, may not be renewed. 39 Table of Contents With respect to DCM’s agreements with some of the CDOs it manages, DCM can be removed without cause by investors that hold a specified amount of the securities issued by the CDO. All of DCM’s agreements with CDOs allow investors that hold a specified amount of securities issued by the CDO to remove DCM for “cause,” which typically includes DCM’s violation of the management agreement or the CDO’s indenture, DCM’s breach of its representations and warranties under the agreement, DCM’s bankruptcy or insolvency, fraud or a criminal offense by DCM or its employees, and the failure of certain of the CDO’s performance tests. These “cause” provisions may be triggered from time to time with respect to our CDOs, and as a result DCM could be removed as the investment manager of such CDOs. DCM’s investment advisory agreements with separately managed accounts are typically terminable by the client without penalty on 30 days’ notice or less. DCM will lose investment advisory fee income if investors in its investment funds redeem their investments. Investors in DCM’s investment funds may generally redeem their investments on a monthly or quarterly basis, subject to the applicable fund’s specific redemption provisions. DCM has experienced investment fund redemptions in the past and may again in the future. In a declining market, the pace of redemptions and consequent reduction in DCM’s AUM could accelerate. Investors may decide to move their capital away from DCM to other investments for any number of reasons, including poor investment performance. Factors which could result in investors redeeming their investments in DCM’s funds include their dissatisfaction with the account’s performance, adverse publicity regarding DCM, changes in interest rates which make other investments more attractive, changes in investor perception regarding DCM’s focus or alignment of interest, unhappiness with changes in or broadening of a fund’s investment strategy, changes in DCM’s reputation, and departures or changes in responsibilities of key investment professionals, errors in reporting to investors account values or account performance or other matters resulting from problems in DCM’s systems technology, investors’ desire to invest their capital elsewhere and their need (in the case of investors that are themselves investment funds) for the capital to fund withdrawals by their own investors. The decrease in revenues that would result from significant redemptions in DCM’s investment funds could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, net income and cash flows. DCM has experienced and may continue to experience declines in and deferrals of management fee income from its CDOs due to defaults, downgrades and depressed market values with respect to the collateral underlying such CDOs. Under the investment management agreements between DCM and the CDOs it manages, payment of DCM’s management fees is generally subject to a “waterfall” structure. Pursuant to these “waterfalls,” all or a portion of DCM’s fees may be deferred if, among other things, the CDOs do not generate sufficient cash flows to pay the required interest on the notes they have issued to investors and certain expenses they have incurred. This could occur if the issuers of the collateral underlying the CDOs default on or defer payments of principal or interest relating to such collateral. Due to the continued severe levels of defaults and delinquencies on the assets underlying certain of the CDOs, DCM has experienced declines in and deferrals of its management fees. If such defaults and delinquencies continue or increase, DCM will experience continued declines in and deferrals of its management fees. Additionally, all or a portion of DCM’s management fees from the CDOs that it manages may be deferred if such CDOs fail to meet their over-collateralization requirements. Pursuant to the “waterfall” structure discussed above, such failures generally require cash flows to be diverted to amortize the most senior class of notes prior to paying a portion of DCM’s management fees. Defaulted assets, which in some CDOs may include severely downgraded assets, are generally carried at a reduced value for purposes of the over-collateralization tests. In some CDOs, defaulted assets are required to be carried at their market values for purposes of the over-collateralization tests. Due to exceptionally high levels of defaults, severe downgrades and depressed market values of the collateral underlying the CDOs managed by DCM, certain of those CDOs have breached their over-collateralization tests, and DCM has therefore experienced, and may continue to experience, declines in and deferrals of its management fees. 40 Table of Contents There may be other structural protections built into the CDOs that DCM manages that could result in the decline in or deferral of DCM’s management fees in the event that the CDO experiences a period of declining performance or increased defaults. DCM could lose management fee income from the CDOs it manages or client AUM as a result of the triggering of certain structural protections built into such CDOs. The CDOs managed by DCM generally contain structural provisions including, but not limited to, over-collateralization requirements and/or market value triggers that are meant to protect investors from deterioration in the credit quality of the underlying collateral pool. In certain cases, breaches of these structural provisions can lead to events of default under the indentures governing the CDOs and, ultimately, acceleration of the notes issued by the CDO and liquidation of the underlying collateral. In the event of a liquidation of the collateral underlying a CDO, DCM will lose client AUM and therefore management fees, which could have a material and adverse effect on DCM’s earnings. One of the CDOs of asset backed securities that we manage has triggered an event of default resulting from downgrades of its underlying collateral. The notes issued by this CDO have been accelerated, but the CDO’s investors have not directed that the collateral be liquidated at this time. In addition, one of the CLOs that we manage has tripped its market value trigger, resulting in an event of default. The notes issued by this CLO have been accelerated, and the requisite investors have requested enforcement against the collateral held by the CLO. Accordingly, an administrative receiver has been appointed to liquidate the portfolio. Our structured loan fund has also tripped its market value trigger, giving certain investors in that fund the right to force a liquidation of that portfolio. DCM faces risks from prolonged dislocations in the markets in which it participates. Recently, as further described elsewhere in these risk factors, the credit markets have generally experienced a significant correction associated with the subprime and second lien mortgage issues which has stalled CDO origination. This disruption may continue well into 2008 and, potentially, for a significantly longer period of time. Additionally, the collateralized loan obligation market has experienced a slow down significantly in response to spread widening and changing investor demand, which could materially and adversely impact the rate at which DCM is able to add AUM. Also, the institutional bank loans underlying DCM’s collateralized loan obligations have recently been subject to sharp decreases in market value, which may lead to the triggering of certain structural protections built into the indentures governing such vehicles. Prolonged dislocation of these markets could materially and adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition. The loss of key portfolio managers and other personnel could harm DCM’s business. DCM generally assigns the management of its investment products to specific teams, consisting of DCM portfolio management and other personnel, many of whom are not bound by employment agreements. The loss of a particular member or members of such a team — for example, because of resignation or retirement — could cause investors in the product to withdraw, to the extent they have withdrawal rights, all or a portion of their investment in the product, and adversely affect the marketing of the product to new investors and the product’s performance. In the case of certain CDOs, DCM can be removed as investment advisor upon its loss of specified key employees. In the case of certain other accounts, investors may have the right to redeem their investments upon DCM’s loss of specified key employees. In addition to the loss of specific portfolio management team members, the loss of one or more members of DCM’s senior management involved in supervising the portfolio teams could have similar adverse effects on DCM’s investment products. DCM may need to offer new investment strategies and products in order to continue to generate revenue. The segments of the asset management industry in which DCM operates are subject to rapid change. Investment strategies and products that had historically been attractive to investors may lose their appeal for various reasons. Thus, strategies and products that have generated fee revenue for DCM in the past may fail to do so in the future. In such case, DCM would have to develop new strategies and products in order to retain investors or replace withdrawing investors with new investors. 41 Table of Contents It could be both expensive and difficult for DCM to develop new strategies and products, and DCM may not be successful in this regard. In addition, alternative asset management products represent a substantially smaller segment of the overall asset management industry than traditional asset management products (such as many bond mutual funds). If DCM is unable to expand its offerings beyond alternative asset management products, this could inhibit its growth and harm its competitive position in the investment management industry. Changes in the fixed income markets could adversely affect DCM. DCM’s success depends largely on the attractiveness to institutional investors of investing in the fixed income markets, and changes in those markets could significantly reduce the appeal of DCM’s investment products to such investors. Such changes could include increased volatility in the prices of fixed income instruments, periods of illiquidity in the fixed income trading markets, changes in the taxation of fixed income instruments, significant changes in the “spreads” in the fixed income markets (the amount by which the yields on particular fixed income instruments exceed the yields on benchmark U.S. Treasury securities or other indexes) and the lack of arbitrage opportunities between U.S. Treasury securities and their related instruments (such as interest rate swap and futures contracts). The fixed income markets can be highly volatile, and the prices of fixed income instruments may fluctuate for many reasons beyond DCM’s control or ability to anticipate, including economic and political events and terrorism. Any adverse changes in investor interest in the fixed income markets could reduce DCM’s AUM and therefore our revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and stock price. Changes in CDO spreads could make it difficult for DCM to launch new CDOs. It is important for DCM to be able to launch new CDO products from time to time, both to expand its CDO activities (which are a major part of DCM’s business) and to replace existing CDOs as they are terminated or mature. The ability to launch new CDOs is dependent, in part, on the amount by which the interest earned on the collateral held by the CDO exceeds the interest payable by the CDO on the debt obligations it issues to investors, as well as other factors. If these “spreads” are not wide enough, the proposed CDO will not be attractive to investors and thus cannot be launched. There may be sustained periods when such spreads will not be sufficient for DCM to launch new CDO products, which could materially impair DCM’s business. DCM may be unable to increase its AUM in certain of its investment vehicles, or it may have to reduce such assets, because of capacity constraints. Some of DCM’s investment vehicles are limited in the amount of client assets they can accommodate by the amount of liquidity in the instruments traded by the vehicles, the arbitrage opportunities available in those instruments, or other factors. DCM may thus manage investment vehicles that are relatively successful but that cannot accept additional capital because of such constraints. In addition, DCM might have to reduce the amount of assets managed in investment vehicles that face capacity constraints. Changes in the fixed income markets could materially reduce capacity, such as an increase in the number of asset managers using the same or similar strategies as DCM. DCM depends on third-party distribution channels to market its CDOs and anticipates developing third-party distribution channels to market its investment funds. DCM’s CDO management services are marketed to institutions that organize and act as selling or placement agents for CDOs. The potential investor base for CDOs is limited, and DCM’s ability to access clients is highly dependent on access to these selling and placement agents. We cannot assure holders of our capital stock that these channels will continue to be accessible to DCM. The inability to have such access could have a material and adverse effect on DCM’s earnings. 42 Table of Contents DCM’s investment fund and separately managed account management services are marketed directly to existing and prospective investors. Although DCM has not historically relied on third party distributors as a source of new business for its investment funds and separately managed accounts, DCM expects to develop third party relationships in the future as it expands into attractive markets, such as pension funds, where consultant relationships are critical. However, DCM may be unable to develop such third party relationships. DCM’s inability to develop such distributor relationships could have a material and adverse effect on the expansion of its investment fund and separately managed accounts business. The fixed income alternative asset management industry is highly competitive, and DCM may lose client assets due to competition from other asset managers that have greater resources than DCM or that are able to offer services and products at more competitive prices. The alternative asset management industry is very competitive. Many firms offer similar and additional investment management products and services to the same types of clients that DCM targets. DCM currently focuses almost exclusively on fixed income securities and related financial instruments in managing client accounts. It has limited experience in equity securities. This is in contrast to numerous other asset managers with comparable AUM, which have significant background and experience in both the equity and debt markets and thus are more diversified. In addition, many of DCM’s competitors have or may in the future develop greater financial and other resources, more extensive distribution capabilities, more effective marketing strategies, more attractive investment vehicle structures and broader name recognition. DCM’s competitors may be able to use these resources and capabilities to place DCM at a competitive disadvantage in retaining AUM and adding new assets. Also, DCM may be at a disadvantage in competing with other asset managers that are subject to less regulation and are thus less restricted in their client solicitation and portfolio management activities, and DCM may be competing for non-U.S. clients with asset managers that are based in the jurisdiction of the prospective client’s domicile. Because barriers to entry into the alternative asset management business are relatively low, DCM may face increased competition from many new entrants into DCM’s relatively limited market of providing fixed income asset management services to institutional clients. Also, DCM is a relatively recent entrant into the REIT management business, and DCM competes in this area against numerous firms that are larger, more experienced or both. Additionally, if other asset managers offer services and products at more competitive prices than DCM, DCM may not be able to maintain its current fee structure. Although DCM’s investment management fees vary somewhat from product to product, historically DCM has competed primarily on the performance of its products and not on the level of its investment management fees relative to those of its competitors. In recent years, however, despite the fact that alternative asset managers typically charge higher fees than traditional managers, particularly with respect to investment funds and similar products, there has been a trend toward lower fees in the investment management industry generally. In order to maintain its fee structure in a competitive environment, DCM must be able to continue to provide clients with investment returns and service that make investors willing to pay DCM’s fees. DCM might not succeed in providing investment returns and service that will allow it to maintain its current fee structure. Fee reductions on existing or future business could impair DCM’s profit margins and results of operations. DCM’s failure to comply with investment guidelines set by its clients or the provisions of the management agreement and other agreements to which it is a party could result in damage awards against DCM and a loss of AUM, either of which could cause our earnings to decline. As an investment advisor, DCM has a fiduciary duty to its clients. When clients retain DCM to manage assets on its behalf, they may specify certain guidelines regarding investment allocation and strategy that DCM is required to observe in the management of its portfolios. In addition, DCM will be required to comply with the obligations set forth in the management agreement and other agreements to which it is a party. 43 Table of Contents DCM’s failure to comply with these guidelines or the terms of these agreements could result in losses to clients, investors in a fund or other parties, and such parties could seek to recover such losses from DCM. In addition, losses could result in the client withdrawing its assets from DCM’s management, the fund terminating DCM’s management agreement or investors withdrawing their capital from the fund. Although DCM has installed procedures and utilizes the services of experienced administrators, accountants and lawyers to assist it in adhering to these guidelines and the terms of these agreements, and maintains limited insurance to protect itself in the case of client losses, we cannot assure that such precautions or insurance will protect us from potential liabilities. The occurrence of any of these events could cause our earnings or stock price to decline. DCM could lose client assets as the result of adverse publicity. Asset managers such as DCM can be particularly vulnerable to losing clients because of adverse publicity. Asset managers are generally regarded as fiduciaries, and if they fail to adhere at all times to a high level of honesty, fair dealing and professionalism they can incur large and rapid losses of client assets. Accordingly, a relatively small perceived lapse in this regard, including if it resulted in a regulatory investigation or enforcement proceeding, could materially harm DCM’s business. Changes in laws, regulations or government policies affecting DCM’s businesses could limit its revenues, increase its costs of doing business and materially and adversely affect its business. DCM’s business is subject to extensive government regulation. This regulation is primarily at the federal level, through regulation by the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, or the Investment Advisers Act, and regulation by the CFTC under the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended. DCM is also regulated by state agencies. The Investment Advisers Act imposes numerous obligations on investment advisers including anti-fraud prohibitions, advertising and custody requirements, disclosure obligations, compliance program duties and trading restrictions. The CFTC regulates commodity futures and option markets and imposes numerous obligations on the industry. DCM is registered with the CFTC as both a commodity trading advisor and a commodity pool operator and certain of its employees are registered with the CFTC as “associated persons.” DCM is also a member of the National Futures Association, the self-regulatory organization for the U.S. commodity futures industry, and thus subject to its regulations. If DCM fails to comply with applicable laws or regulations, DCM could be subject to fines, censure, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of its registration as an investment adviser, commodity trading advisor or commodity pool operator, any of which could cause our earnings or stock price to decline. The regulations to which DCM’s businesses are subject are designed to protect its clients, investors in its funds and other third parties and to ensure the integrity of the financial markets. These regulations are not designed to protect our stockholders. Changes in laws, regulations or government policies could limit DCM’s revenues, increase its costs of doing business and materially and adversely affect our business. Changes in laws, regulations or government policies could limit DCM’s revenues, increase its costs of doing business and materially harm its business. DCM Europe, a subsidiary of Deerfield, is subject to extensive government regulation, primarily by the United Kingdom Financial Services Authority under the U.K. Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000. The non-U.S. domiciled investment funds that DCM manages are regulated in the jurisdiction of their domicile. Changes in the laws or government policies of these foreign jurisdictions could limit DCM’s revenues from these funds, increase DCM’s costs of doing business in these jurisdictions and materially adversely affect DCM’s business. Furthermore, if we expand our business into additional foreign jurisdictions or establish additional offices or subsidiaries overseas, we could become subject to additional non-U.S. laws, regulations and government policies. The level of investor participation in DCM’s products may also be affected by the regulatory and self-regulatory requirements and restrictions applicable to DCM’s products and investors, the financial reporting requirements imposed on DCM’s investors and financial intermediaries, and the tax treatment of DCM’s 44 Table of Contents products. Adverse changes in any of these areas may result in a loss of existing investors or difficulties in attracting new investors. Tax Risks Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes and to maintain our exemption from the 1940 Act, we must continually satisfy numerous income, asset and other tests, thus having to forgo investments we might otherwise make and hindering our investment performance. Failure to qualify as a REIT would subject us to federal income tax, which would reduce the cash available for dividends. We operate in a manner that is intended to cause us to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. However, the tax laws governing REITs are extremely complex, and interpretations of the tax laws governing qualification as a REIT are limited. Qualifying as a REIT requires us to meet numerous income and other tests. While we operate in such a way so as to qualify as a REIT, given the highly complex nature of the rules governing REITs, the ongoing importance of factual determinations, and the possibility of changes in our circumstances, no assurance can be given that we will so qualify for any particular year. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any calendar year and we do not qualify for certain statutory relief provisions, we would have to pay federal income tax on our taxable income. We might need to borrow money or sell assets in order to pay that tax. Our payment of income tax would decrease the amount of our income available for distribution to our stockholders. We would also no longer have to distribute substantially all of our REIT taxable income to our stockholders. Unless our failure to qualify as a REIT is excused under federal tax laws, we could not re-elect REIT status until the fifth calendar year after the year in which we failed to qualify. Failure to make required distributions would subject us to tax, which would reduce the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. In order to qualify as a REIT, we must distribute annually to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain. To the extent that we satisfy the 90% distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed income. In addition, we will incur a 4% nondeductible excise tax on any amount by which our distributions in any calendar year are less than the sum of: • 85% of our ordinary income for that year; • 95% of our capital gain net income for that year; and • 100% of our undistributed taxable income from prior years. We intend to continue to distribute our net taxable income to our stockholders in a manner intended to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement and to avoid both corporate income tax and the excise tax. However, breaches of certain covenants related to our trust preferred securities may prohibit us from making future distributions to holders of our capital stock, which could cause us to incur a significant excise (and possibly corporate income) tax liability or could cause us to lose our qualification as a REIT. There is no requirement that domestic TRSs distribute their after-tax net income to their parent REIT or their stockholders, and any of our TRSs may determine not to make any distributions to us. Our taxable income may substantially exceed our net income as based on GAAP because, for example, realized capital losses will be deducted in determining our GAAP net income, but may not be deductible in computing our taxable income. In addition, we may invest in assets that generate taxable income in excess of economic income or in advance of the corresponding cash flow from the assets, referred to as phantom income. Although some types of phantom income are excluded to the extent they exceed 5% of our REIT 45 Table of Contents taxable income in determining the 90% distribution requirement, we will incur corporate income tax and the excise tax with respect to any phantom income items if we do not distribute those items on an annual basis. As a result of the foregoing, we may generate less cash flow than taxable income in a particular year. In that event, we may be required to use cash reserves, incur debt, or liquidate non-cash assets at rates or times that we regard as unfavorable in order to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the excise tax in that year. Dividends payable by REITs generally do not qualify for the reduced tax rates on dividend income from regular corporations. The maximum tax rate for dividends payable to domestic stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates were reduced in recent years to 15% (through 2010). Dividends payable by REITs, however, are generally not eligible for the reduced rates. Although this legislation does not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends paid by REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the stock of REITs, including our common stock. Stockholders will have “phantom income” if we make a taxable distribution of our stock in order to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement. In order to qualify as a REIT, we must distribute annually to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain. Certain taxable distributions of our stock to our stockholders would be treated as dividends for purposes of the 90% distribution requirement. Stockholders receiving a stock distribution treated as a dividend would have ordinary income to the extent of the value of the stock received. We may use taxable stock distributions to satisfy all or part of the 90% distribution requirement. A stockholder receiving a stock distribution would have taxable income without a corresponding receipt of cash, which is sometimes referred to as “phantom income.” There can be no guarantee that our cash distributions for a year will be sufficient for stockholders to pay the tax owed with respect to any taxable stock distributions. Ownership limitations may restrict change of control or business combination opportunities in which our stockholders might receive a premium for their shares. In order for us to qualify as a REIT for each taxable year, no more than 50% in value of our outstanding capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals during the last half of any calendar year. Individuals for this purpose include natural persons, private foundations, some employee benefit plans and trusts, and some charitable trusts. In order to preserve our REIT qualification, our charter and certain board resolutions generally prohibit any person from directly or indirectly owning more than 7.7% in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of any class or series of the outstanding shares of our capital stock, other than Robert C. Dart, Kenneth B. Dart and certain entities controlled by Robert C. Dart and Kenneth B. Dart, which are not permitted to own more than 18.5% in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of our common stock. Additionally, in connection with the Merger, we granted limited exemptions to (i) Gregory H. Sachs, who is also one of our directors, and (ii) Triarc and Triarc Deerfield Holdings, LLC (a majority-owned subsidiary of Triarc) and certain of their affiliates, including Nelson Peltz and one of our directors, Peter W. May, from the ownership limit with respect to our Series A preferred stock and to Triarc and Triarc Deerfield Holdings, LLC with respect to our common stock. These ownership limitations could discourage a takeover or other transaction in which holders of our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock might receive a premium for their shares over the then prevailing market price or which holders might believe to be otherwise in their best interests. 46 Table of Contents Our ownership of and relationship with our TRSs is limited and a failure to comply with the limits would jeopardize our REIT status and may result in the application of a 100% excise tax. A REIT may own up to 100% of the stock of one or more TRSs. A TRS may earn income that would not be qualifying income if earned directly by the parent REIT. Both the subsidiary and the REIT must jointly elect to treat the subsidiary as a TRS. A corporation of which a TRS directly or indirectly owns more than 35% of the voting power or value of the stock will automatically be treated as a TRS. Overall, no more than 20% of the value of a REIT’s assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more TRSs. A TRS will pay federal, state and local income tax at regular corporate rates on any income that it earns. In addition, the TRS rules limit the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a TRS to its parent REIT to assure that the TRS is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation. The rules also impose a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis. Deerfield TRS Holdings, Inc., the Deerfield TRSs, DFR Middle Market Sub-1, Inc. and DFR Middle Market Sub-2, Inc., as domestic TRSs, will pay federal, state and local income tax on their taxable income, and their after-tax net income is available for distribution to us but is not required to be distributed to us. The aggregate value of the TRS stock and securities owned by us will be less than 20% of the value of our total assets (including the TRS stock and securities). Furthermore, we monitor the value of our investments in TRSs for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the rule that no more than 20% of the value of our assets may consist of TRS stock and securities (which is applied at the end of each calendar quarter). In addition, we scrutinize all of our transactions with TRSs to ensure that they are entered into on arm’s-length terms in order to avoid incurring the 100% excise tax described above. There can be no complete assurance, however, that we will be able to comply with the 20% limitation discussed above or to avoid application of the 100% excise tax discussed above. Our foreign TRSs could be subject to federal income tax at the entity level, which would greatly reduce the amounts those entities would have available to distribute to us. Market Square CLO and DFR MM CLO, which are Cayman Islands exempted limited liability companies and are the issuers of two separate CLO transactions in which we have invested, Pinetree CDO, which is a Cayman Islands exempted limited liability company, and Deerfield TRS (Bahamas) Ltd., which is a Bahamas international business corporation and was formed to allow us to make alternative investments through an offshore entity, have elected to be TRSs. We may elect in the future to treat other foreign entities, including CDO issuers, as TRSs. There is a specific exemption from federal income tax for non-U.S. corporations that restrict their activities in the United States to trading stock and securities (or any activity closely related thereto) for their own account whether such trading (or such other activity) is conducted by the corporation or its employees through a resident broker, commission agent, custodian or other agent. We intend that our foreign TRSs will rely on that exemption or otherwise operate in a manner so that they will not be subject to federal income tax on their net income at the entity level. However, because we have elected to treat two of the DFR MM Subs that hold our interest in DFR MM CLO as TRSs, 40% of our income from that CDO will be subject to corporate income tax. If the Internal Revenue Service successfully challenged the qualification of our foreign TRSs for the exemption from federal income tax described above, that could greatly reduce the amount that our foreign TRSs would have available to pay to their creditors and to distribute to us. We may lose our REIT status if the IRS successfully challenges our characterization of our income from our foreign TRSs. We intend to treat dividends received with respect to our equity investments in our foreign TRSs, such as Market Square CLO, DFR MM CLO (to the extent not received by DFR MM Subs that have elected to be TRSs), Pinetree CDO and Deerfield TRS (Bahamas) Ltd. as qualifying income for purposes of the 95% gross income test but not the 75% gross income test. Because there is no clear precedent with respect to the qualification of such income for purposes of the REIT gross income tests, no assurance can be given that the IRS will not assert a contrary position. If this income was determined not to qualify for the 95% gross income test, we could be subject to a penalty tax with respect to the income to the extent it and our other nonqualifying income exceeds 5% of our gross income, or we could fail to qualify as a REIT. 47 Table of Contents Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively. The REIT provisions of the Code substantially limit our ability to hedge RMBS and related borrowings. Under these provisions, our annual gross income from qualifying and non-qualifying hedges, together with any other income not generated from qualifying real estate assets, cannot exceed 25% of our gross income. In addition, our aggregate gross income from non-qualifying hedges, fees, and certain other non-qualifying sources cannot exceed 5% of our annual gross income. As a result, we might have to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through a TRS. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear. The tax on prohibited transactions will limit our investment transactions, including certain methods of securitizing mortgage loans that would be treated as sales for federal income tax purposes. A REIT’s net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, but including mortgage loans, held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. We might be subject to this tax if we were able to sell or securitize loans in a manner that was treated as a sale of the loans for federal income tax purposes. Therefore, in order to avoid the prohibited transactions tax, we may choose not to engage in certain sales of loans and may limit the structures we utilize for our securitization transactions even though such sales or structures might otherwise be beneficial to us. It may be possible to reduce the impact of the prohibited transaction tax and the holding of assets not qualifying as real estate assets for purposes of the REIT asset tests by conducting certain activities, holding non-qualifying REIT assets or engaging in CDO transactions through our TRSs, subject to certain limitations as described above. To the extent that we engage in such activities through domestic TRSs, the income associated with such activities may be subject to full corporate income tax. We may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could reduce the market price of our common stock or Series A Preferred Stock. At any time, the federal income tax laws or regulations governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws or regulations may be amended. We cannot predict when or if any new federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, or any amendment to any existing federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, will be adopted, promulgated or become effective and any such law, regulation or interpretation may take effect retroactively. We and our stockholders could be adversely affected by any such change in, or any new, federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation. If we make distributions in excess of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, those distributions will be treated as a return of capital, which will reduce the adjusted basis of your stock, and to the extent such distributions exceed your adjusted basis, you may recognize a capital gain. Unless you are a tax-exempt entity, distributions that we make to you generally will be subject to tax as ordinary income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits as determined for federal income tax purposes. If the amount we distribute to you exceeds your allocable share of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, the excess will be treated as a return of capital to the extent of your adjusted basis in your stock. This will reduce your basis in your stock but will not be subject to tax. If the amount we distribute to you exceeds both your allocable share of our current and accumulated earnings and profits and your adjusted basis, this amount will be treated as a gain from the sale or exchange of a capital asset. Certain financing activities may subject us to U.S. federal income tax and could have negative tax consequences for our stockholders. We have not and currently do not intend to enter into any transactions that could result in our, or a portion of our assets, being treated as a taxable mortgage pool for federal income tax purposes. However, we might enter into transactions that will have that effect. If we enter into such a transaction at the REIT level, 48 Table of Contents although the law on the matter is unclear, the Internal Revenue Service has taken the position that we would be taxable at the highest corporate income tax rate on a portion of the income arising from a taxable mortgage pool, referred to as “excess inclusion income,” that is allocable to the percentage of our stock held in record name by disqualified organizations. These are generally certain cooperatives, governmental entities and tax-exempt organizations that are exempt from unrelated business taxable income (including certain state pension plans and charitable remainder trusts). They are permitted to own our stock. Because this tax would be imposed on us, all of our investors, including investors that are not disqualified organizations, would bear a portion of the tax cost associated with the classification of us or a portion of our assets as a taxable mortgage pool. A regulated investment company or other pass-through entity owning our stock may also be subject to tax at the highest corporate rate on any excess inclusion income allocated to their record name owners that are disqualified organizations. Nominees who hold our stock on behalf of disqualified organizations also potentially may be subject to this tax. If we were to realize excess inclusion income, recently issued guidance from the Internal Revenue Service indicates that the excess inclusion income would be allocated among our stockholders in proportion to our dividends paid. Excess inclusion income cannot be offset by losses of our stockholders. If the stockholder is a tax-exempt entity and not a disqualified organization, then this income would be fully taxable as unrelated business taxable income under Section 512 of the Code. If the stockholder is a foreign person, it would be subject to U.S. federal income tax withholding on this income without reduction or exemption pursuant to any otherwise applicable income tax treaty. Risks Related to the Series A Preferred Stock An active trading market for the Series A Preferred Stock may not develop, and holders of our Series A Preferred Stock may be unable to resell their shares of Series A Preferred Stock at or above the purchase price. The shares of Series A Preferred Stock that were issued in a private placement transaction pursuant to Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, and are not tradable on the PORTAL Market of the Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. or any other market. We have agreed to seek a listing for the Series A Preferred Stock on the NYSE on or before April 30, 2008, subject to satisfaction of applicable listing standards, if the shares of Series A Preferred Stock have not been converted into shares of our common stock by that date. These listing standards may not be satisfied, and there can be no assurance that the Series A Preferred Stock will be listed on the NYSE or any other exchange or that a market for the Series A Preferred Stock will develop. Furthermore, even if the Series A Preferred Stock is accepted for listing on the NYSE, an active trading market may not develop and the market price of the Series A Preferred Stock may be volatile. As a result, holders of our Series A Preferred Stock may be unable to sell their shares of Series A Preferred Stock at a price equal to or greater than that which such stockholders paid, if at all. Conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock will dilute the ownership interests of our existing common stockholders. The conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock will dilute the ownership interests of our existing common stockholders. Any sales in the public market of the shares of common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the Series A Preferred Stock may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock could depress the price of our common stock. We may not be able to pay the redemption price of our Series A Preferred Stock upon the earlier of a change in control or December 20, 2014. Upon the earlier to occur of (i) a change in control of our company or (ii) December 20, 2014, we have an obligation to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) approximately $150.0 million or (ii) the value of our common stock that the holders of Series A Preferred Stock would have received on the date of redemption as if the conversion occurred on that date, based on then 49 Table of Contents current market prices. We may be unable to finance the redemption on favorable terms, or at all. Consequently, we may not have sufficient cash to purchase the shares of our Series A Preferred Stock upon the occurrence of such a mandatory redemption event. Further, the redemption obligation may limit or prevent our ability to undertake a change in control that would otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. We may not issue preferred stock that is on par with, or senior to, the Series A Preferred Stock without the consent of the holders of 80% of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock, which limits the flexibility of our capital structure. As long as the Series A Preferred Stock is outstanding, we may not issue preferred stock that is on par with, or senior to, the Series A Preferred Stock with respect to dividend or liquidation rights without the consent of the holders of 80% of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock. This limitation restricts the flexibility of our capital structure and may prevent us from issuing equity that would otherwise be in the best interests of our company and common stockholders. The market price of common stock holders of our Series A Preferred Stock receive upon conversion may be less than the effective price paid for the shares of Series A Preferred Stock. The market value of shares of our common stock received by holders of our Series A Preferred Stock on the conversion of the shares of our Series A Preferred Stock may be less than the effective price paid for the shares of Series A Preferred Stock. If the market value of our common stock is less than the liquidation price of those shares at the time of conversion, the value of the shares of our common stock issued to holders of our Series A Preferred Stock will be less than the redemption value of those shares. During the time when the Series A Preferred Stock is subject to conversion, we expect that the trading prices for the shares of our Series A Preferred Stock in the secondary market will be directly affected by the trading prices of our common stock, the general level of interest rates and our credit quality. The market price of our common stock has been volatile in the past and may be so in the future, which could adversely affect the value of the Series A Preferred Stock. Accordingly, holders of our Series A Preferred Stock assume the risk that the market value of the common stock may be less than the value of the Series A Preferred Stock, may decline further, and that any such decline could be substantial. The shares of our Series A Preferred Stock will rank junior to all of our and our subsidiaries’ liabilities in the event of a bankruptcy, liquidation or winding up of our assets. In the event of bankruptcy, liquidation or winding up, our assets will be available to pay obligations on the Series A Preferred Stock only after all of our liabilities have been paid and the liquidation preference, if any, of any future senior preferred stock issued by us has been paid and only on a pari passu basis with any parity preferred stock we may issue hereafter. In addition, the Series A Preferred Stock will effectively rank junior to all existing and future liabilities of our subsidiaries and any preferred stock of our subsidiaries held by third parties, and thus the rights of holders of our Series A Preferred Stock to participate in the assets of our subsidiaries upon any liquidation or reorganization of any subsidiary will be subject to the prior claims of that subsidiary’s creditors and preferred equity holders. In the event of bankruptcy, liquidation or winding up, there may not be sufficient assets remaining, after paying our and our subsidiaries’ liabilities, to pay amounts due on our Series A Preferred Stock then outstanding. Our issuance of additional common stock or preferred stock may cause our common stock price to decline, which may negatively impact an investment in our Series A Preferred Stock. Issuances or sales of substantial numbers of additional shares of our common or preferred stock, including in connection with future acquisitions, if any, or the perception that such issuances or sales could occur, may cause prevailing market prices for our common stock to decline, which may negatively impact an investment in our Series A Preferred Stock. In addition, our Board is authorized to issue additional series of shares of preferred stock without any action on the part of our common stockholders. Our Board also has the power, without common stockholder approval, to set the terms of any such series of shares of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, conversion rights, dividend rights and preferences over our common 50 Table of Contents stock. For example, the Series A Preferred Stock obligates us to make (i) preferential dividends in the minimum amount of approximately $7.5 million per year, (ii) a minimum redemption payment of approximately $150.0 million upon the earlier of a change in control or December 20, 2014, and (iii) obtain the consent of 80% of the outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock prior to our issuance of capital stock on parity with, or senior to, the Series A Preferred Stock. If we issue preferred stock in the future that has preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could decrease, adversely affecting the value of our Series A Preferred Stock. We are also authorized to issue, without common stockholder approval, but subject to approval by 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of the outstanding Series A Preferred Stock, equity securities that rank on parity with, or senior to, the Series A Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends and distributions of assets upon liquidation. Any future issuance of preferred stock on parity with or senior to the Series A Preferred Stock may adversely affect our ability to pay dividends on the shares of our Series A Preferred Stock. Holders of our Series A Preferred Stock may not receive common stock upon the conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock to the extent the receipt of such common stock would cause a violation of our ownership limitations. In order for us to qualify as a REIT for each taxable year, no more than 50% in value of our outstanding capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals during the last half of any calendar year. Individuals for this purpose include natural persons, private foundations, some employee benefit plans and trusts, and some charitable trusts. In order to preserve our REIT qualification, our charter and certain board resolutions generally prohibit any person from directly or indirectly owning more than 7.7% in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of any class or series of the outstanding shares of our capital stock, other than Robert C. Dart, Kenneth B. Dart and certain entities controlled by Robert C. Dart and Kenneth B. Dart, which are not permitted to own more than 18.50% in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of our common stock. Additionally, in connection with the Merger, we granted limited exemptions to (i) Gregory H. Sachs, who is one of our directors, and (ii) Triarc and Triarc Deerfield Holdings, LLC (a majority-owned subsidiary of Triarc) and certain of their affiliates, including Nelson Peltz and one of our directors, Peter W. May, from the ownership limit with respect to our Series A Preferred Stock and to Triarc and Triarc Deerfield Holdings, LLC with respect to our common stock. The Series A Preferred Stock and our common stock received upon conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock are subject to these ownership limitations. If the conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock would result in a holder (other than a holder with an exemption from the ownership limitation with respect to our common stock) owning, directly or indirectly, in excess of 7.7% in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of our common stock, any common stock that would have been received upon conversion in excess of that threshold would automatically be transferred to a trust for the exclusive benefit of a charitable beneficiary (as defined in our charter) and the holder would lose his or her rights to such common stock. Holders of shares of our Series A Preferred Stock have limited voting rights, and will have no rights as a common stockholder unless and until they acquire shares of our common stock upon conversion. Unless and until holders of our Series A Preferred Stock acquire shares of our common stock upon conversion, holders of our Series A Preferred Stock will have no rights with respect to our common stock, including voting rights (except as required by applicable state law or our articles of amendment and restatement, as amended, including the articles supplementary relating to the Series A Preferred Stock). Upon conversion, holders of our Series A Preferred Stock will be entitled to exercise the rights of a holder of common stock only as to matters for which the record date occurs after the conversion date. For example, in the event that an amendment is proposed to our charter or bylaws requiring stockholder approval that would not materially adversely affect the rights of our Series A Preferred Stock, and the record date for determining the stockholders of record entitled to vote on the amendment occurs prior to delivery of the common stock, holders of our Series A Preferred Stock will not be entitled to vote on the amendment, although such holders 51 Table of Contents will nevertheless be subject to any changes in the powers, preferences or special rights of our common stock upon conversion. The value of shares of our Series A Preferred Stock may be adversely affected by modifications to our capital structure for which the conversion rate will not be adjusted. The number of shares of common stock that holders of our Series A Preferred Stock are entitled to receive upon conversion is subject to adjustment for certain events arising from stock splits and combinations, stock dividends and certain other actions by us that modify our capital structure. However, we may undergo an event which would not adjust the conversion rate. As a result, an event that adversely affects the value of the shares of our Series A Preferred Stock, but does not result in an adjustment to the conversion rate, could occur. Further, we are not restricted from issuing additional shares of our common stock or junior series of preferred stock while our Series A Preferred Stock is outstanding and have no obligation to consider the interests of holders of our Series A Preferred Stock for any reason. If we issue additional shares of common stock or junior series of preferred stock, it may materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock and the trading price of the shares of our Series A Preferred Stock. For example, we could issue a junior series of preferred stock without the consent of the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock that would ultimately be senior to the interests of the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock following the conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock into shares of common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 