ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business We have a limited operating history and limited experience as a REIT and we may not be able to successfully operate our business or generate sufficient revenue to make or sustain dividends to stockholders. We were organized in December 2004 and have a limited operating history and limited experience operating as a REIT. We are subject to all the business risks and uncertainties associated with any relatively new business, including that we will not achieve our investment objectives and that the value of your investment could decline substantially. Our ability to achieve attractive risk-adjusted returns depends on our ability both to generate sufficient cash flow to pay an attractive dividend and to achieve capital appreciation. We cannot assure you we will do either, or that we can generate sufficient revenue from operations to pay our operating expenses and make or sustain dividends to stockholders. We are dependent on Deerfield Capital and may not find a suitable replacement if it terminates the management agreement. We have no employees. Our officers are employees of Deerfield Capital. We have no separate facilities and rely completely on Deerfield Capital, which has broad discretion as to the conduct of our business. We face the risk that Deerfield Capital will terminate its management agreement with us and that no suitable replacement will be found to manage us. Such termination could also give some of our swap counterparties the right to terminate their swap transactions with us, which might prevent us from being able to execute our business plan and could impair our ability to make dividend distributions to our stockholders. Our success depends significantly upon the experience of Deerfield Capital’s executive officers, whose continued service is not guaranteed. Deerfield Capital has limited prior experience managing a REIT and its past experience may not be sufficient to successfully manage our business as a REIT. The federal income tax and securities laws impose numerous constraints on the operations of REITs. Deerfield Capital’s limited experience in managing a portfolio of assets under these constraints may hinder its ability to achieve our investment objective. Maintaining our REIT qualification also limits the types of investments we can make. Our investment returns could be substantially lower than the returns achieved by Deerfield Capital or its portfolio managers in non-REIT accounts they have managed. We depend upon Deerfield Capital’s key personnel for our success. We depend on the diligence, skill and network of business contacts of the Deerfield Capital personnel who manage our portfolio. In addition, the business contacts of Triarc personnel may also be important to us in sourcing investment opportunities. Deerfield Capital portfolio managers, supervised by Deerfield Capital’s senior management, evaluate, negotiate, structure, close and monitor our investments. Our performance depends on the continued service of experienced and skilled Deerfield Capital employees. The departure of any of Deerfield Capital’s senior management, or of key portfolio managers, could impair our performance. There is no assurance Deerfield Capital will remain our investment manager or that we will continue to have access to Deerfield’s or Triarc’s principals and professionals or their information and deal flow. 23 Deerfield Capital manages our portfolio pursuant to very broad investment guidelines and our board does not approve each investment decision made by Deerfield Capital, which may result in our making riskier investments. Deerfield Capital manages our portfolio pursuant to very broad investment guidelines. While our directors periodically review those guidelines and our portfolio, they do not review all of our proposed investments. In conducting their reviews, the directors may rely primarily on information provided to them by Deerfield Capital. Deerfield Capital may use complex strategies, and transactions that may be difficult or impossible to unwind by the time they are reviewed by the directors. Deerfield Capital has great latitude within the broad investment guidelines in determining the types of investments it makes for us. Poor investment decisions could impair our ability to pay dividends. We may change our investment strategy without stockholder consent, which may result in riskier investments. We have not adopted a policy as to the amounts to be invested in any of our asset classes, including securities rated below investment grade. We may change our investment strategy, including the percentage of assets that may be invested in any particular asset class, or in a single issuer, at any time, without the consent of or notice to our stockholders. Thus, we may invest in assets that are different from, and possibly riskier than, the investments described herein. A change in our investment strategy may increase our exposure to interest rate risk, default risk and real estate market fluctuations, all of which could reduce our stock price and our ability to pay dividends. A change in our asset allocation could result in our investing in asset classes different from those described herein. There are conflicts of interest in our relationship with Deerfield Capital, which could result in decisions that are not in the best interests of our stockholders. We depend entirely on Deerfield Capital for our day-to-day management. We do not have any independent officers, and we have no employees. Our chairman, chief executive officer, president, chief financial officer and general counsel also serve as employees, officers or directors of Deerfield Capital or Triarc. In addition, certain of our other directors and all of the members of our Investment Committee are directors or officers of Deerfield, Deerfield Capital or Triarc. As a result, our management agreement with Deerfield Capital was negotiated between related parties and its terms, including fees payable, may not be as favorable to us as if it had been negotiated with an unaffiliated third party. It would be difficult and costly for us to terminate the management agreement. We can do so only following the initial term expiring on December 31, 2007, annually upon the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of our independent directors or a majority of the outstanding shares of our stock. The termination must be based upon either unsatisfactory performance by Deerfield Capital that is materially detrimental to us or a determination that the management fee payable to Deerfield Capital is not fair, subject to Deerfield Capital’s right to prevent such a termination by accepting a mutually acceptable reduction of management fees that at least two-thirds of our independent directors determines to be fair. We must give Deerfield Capital 180 days prior notice of any such termination, and pay it a termination fee of two times the sum of the average annual base management fee and the average annual incentive fees earned by Deerfield Capital during the two 12-month periods immediately before the termination, calculated as of the end of the most recently completed fiscal quarter before the termination. These provisions may increase the effective cost to us of terminating the agreement, thereby impairing our ability to terminate Deerfield Capital without cause. The ability of Deerfield Capital and its officers and employees to engage in other business activities may reduce the time Deerfield Capital spends managing us. The fees we pay Deerfield Capital may cause it to invest in potentially higher yielding investments, which are generally riskier or more speculative. These fees consist of both a management fee that is not tied to our performance and an incentive fee that is based entirely on our performance. The risk of the incentive fee is that it may cause Deerfield Capital to place undue emphasis on the maximization of net income at the expense of other criteria, such as preservation of capital, in order to achieve a higher incentive fee. This could result in increased risk to our invested portfolio. Subject to certain limitations, Deerfield Capital must receive at least 15% of its incentive fee in shares of our common stock, and, Deerfield Capital has the right to receive up to 100% of the fee in such shares. Deerfield Capital can allocate these shares to, among others, its employees who manage our portfolio, thus giving those employees additional incentive to seek to maximize the incentive fee through investments in higher risk securities. The risk of the management fee is that it may not sufficiently incentivize Deerfield Capital to generate attractive risk-adjusted returns for us. We may compete with future investment vehicles for access to Deerfield Capital. Deerfield Capital manages various other investment vehicles and may manage additional vehicles in the future. If any such vehicles have an investment focus similar to ours, we may be competing with those vehicles for access to investment opportunities with a limited supply, thus potentially impairing our investment strategy. 24 Our investment portfolio is heavily concentrated in adjustable-rate MBS and we might not be able to achieve or sustain a more diversified portfolio. As of December 31, 2006, 87.8% of our investment portfolio consisted of RMBS. One of our key strategic objectives is to achieve a more diversified portfolio of investments that delivers attractive risk-adjusted returns. We might not succeed in this respect, and even if we do approximately 80% of our fully leveraged assets will likely be MBS. If we cannot achieve a more diversified portfolio, we will be particularly exposed to the investment risks that relate to investments in adjustable-rate MBS and we may suffer losses if those investments decline in value. We leverage our investments and incur other indebtedness, which may reduce our returns and our dividends. We leverage our investments through borrowings, generally through warehouse facilities, bank credit facilities, repurchase agreements, secured loans, securitizations (including the issuance of CDOs), loans to entities in which we hold interests in pools of assets, and other borrowings. We also incur other indebtedness from time to time such as our obligations resulting from the issuance of trust preferred securities. We are not limited in the amount of leverage we may use. Our leverage amount at any given time varies depending on such factors as our ability to obtain credit facilities, the lender’s and rating agencies’ estimate of the stability of our investments’ cash flow and market conditions for debt securities. Our return on investments and cash available for distribution to our stockholders may be reduced to the extent that changes in market conditions increase the cost of our financing relative to the income that can be derived from the assets acquired. Our debt service payments will reduce cash flow available for distributions to stockholders. We may not be able to meet our debt service obligations, thus risking the loss of some or all of our assets to foreclosure or sale to satisfy the obligations. We leverage certain of our assets through repurchase agreements. A decrease in the value of these assets may lead to margin calls, which we will have to satisfy. We may not have the funds available to satisfy any these calls and may have to sell assets at a time when we might not otherwise choose to do so. Credit facility providers and other holders of our indebtedness may require us to maintain a certain amount of uninvested cash, to set aside unlevered assets sufficient to maintain a specified liquidity position to satisfy our collateral obligations or to maintain certain minimum net worth. Thus, we may not be able to leverage our assets as fully as we would choose, which could reduce our returns. If we are unable to meet these collateral obligations, our financial condition could deteriorate rapidly. Our failure to maintain an adequate alternative investment portfolio may impair our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to achieve our investment objective and generate an attractive dividend may depend on our ability to maintain our alternative asset portfolio, such as mezzanine loans. This in turn depends on Deerfield Capital’s ability to identify and invest in such assets, as well as on our access to the financing of such assets on acceptable terms. If we cannot identify and acquire satisfactory alternative investments, our portfolio will be concentrated in a less diversified portfolio of RMBS investments, increasing our dependence on these investments. The availability of suitable alternative assets may be limited and there is often active competition for these assets among investors. When we obtain financing of our alternative (and other) assets, lenders could impose restrictions on us that would reduce our ability to incur additional debt, our capability to make distributions to stockholders and our flexibility to determine our operating policies. Loan documents we execute might limit, among other things, our ability to repurchase stock, distribute more than a certain amount of our funds from operations, and employ leverage beyond certain amounts. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. We compete for investments with various other investors—such as other REITs, public and private funds, commercial and investment banks and commercial finance companies. Many of our competitors are substantially larger than us and have considerably more financial and other resources. Other REITs may have investment objectives that overlap with ours, which may create competition for investment opportunities with limited supply. Some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us, and may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. The competitive pressures we face could impair our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time. Failure to procure adequate capital and funding would hurt our results and reduce the price of our stock and our ability to pay dividends. We depend upon the availability of adequate funding and capital for our operations. As a REIT, we generally must distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income to our stockholders, and therefore cannot retain significant amounts of our earnings for new investments. However, Deerfield Triarc TRS Holdings, Inc., one of our TRSs, is able to retain its earnings for investment in 25 new capital, subject to the REIT requirements which limit the relative value of TRS stock and securities owned by a REIT. The failure to secure acceptable financing could reduce our taxable income, as our investments would no longer generate the same level of net interest income due to the lack of funding or increase in funding costs. A reduction in our net income would impair our liquidity and our ability to pay dividends. We cannot assure you that any, or sufficient, funding or capital will be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable to us. Therefore, if we cannot obtain sufficient funding on acceptable terms, there may be a negative impact on the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions. If we issue senior securities we will be subject to additional restrictive covenants and limitations on our operating flexibility, which impair our ability to pay dividends. If we issue senior securities, they will likely be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. Holders of senior securities may be granted specific rights, including the right to hold a perfected security interest in certain of our assets, to accelerate payments due under the indenture, to restrict dividend payments, and to require approval to sell assets. Any convertible or exchangeable securities we issue may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock. We, and indirectly our stockholders, will bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities. We may be unable to complete securitization transactions. In addition to issuing senior securities to raise capital as described above, we may seek to securitize some of our assets to generate cash for funding new investments. This would involve creating a special-purpose vehicle, contributing a pool of our assets to the vehicle, and selling interests in the vehicle on a non-recourse basis to purchasers (who we would expect to be willing to accept a lower interest rate to invest in investment grade loan pools). We would retain all or a portion of the equity in the securitized pool of portfolio investments. We may finance our investments with relatively short-term credit facilities, until a sufficient quantity of securities is accumulated, with the intent of refinancing these facilities through a securitization such as a CDO issuance or other financing. However, we may not be able to acquire, during the period that our short-term facilities are available, a sufficient amount of eligible securities to maximize the efficiency of a CDO issuance. We also may not be able to obtain short-term credit facilities or to renew any such facilities after they expire should we find it necessary to extend the facilities to allow more time to buy the necessary eligible securities for a long-term financing. The inability to renew the facilities may require us to seek more costly financing for our investments or to liquidate assets. In addition, conditions in the capital markets may make the issuance of a CDO impractical when we do have a sufficient pool of collateral. The inability to securitize our portfolio could hurt our performance. At the same time, the securitization of our portfolio investments might expose us to losses, as the residual portfolio investments in which we do not sell interests will tend to be riskier and more likely to generate losses. The use of CDO financings with over-collateralization requirements may reduce our cash flow. If we issue CDOs, we expect that their terms will generally provide that the principal amount of assets must exceed the principal balance of the related bonds by a certain amount, commonly referred to as over-collateralization, and that if certain delinquencies or losses exceed specified levels, which we will establish based on the analysis by the rating agencies (or any financial guaranty insurer) of the characteristics of the assets collateralizing the bonds, our ability to receive net income from assets collateralizing the obligations will be restricted. We cannot be certain that the over-collateralization tests will be satisfied. In advance of completing negotiations with the rating agencies or other key transaction parties on our future CDO financings, we cannot be certain of the actual terms of the CDO, over-collateralization terms, cash flow release mechanisms or other significant factors regarding the calculation of net income to us. Failure to obtain favorable terms on these matters may hurt our performance. If our assets fail to perform as anticipated, our over-collateralization or other credit enhancement expense associated with our CDO financings will increase. An increase in our borrowing costs relative to the interest we receive on our assets may impair our profitability, and thus our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. As our repurchase agreements and other short-term borrowings mature, we must either enter into new borrowings or liquidate certain of our investments at times when we might otherwise not choose to do so. An increase in short-term interest rates when we seek new borrowings would reduce the spread between our returns on our assets and the cost of our borrowings. This would reduce the returns on our assets that are subject to prepayment risk, including our MBS, which might reduce earnings and in turn cash available for dividends. We may not be able to renew our total return swaps, which could impair our leveraging strategy. We may leverage certain of our investments through total return swaps, and may wish to renew many of the swaps, which are for specified terms, as they mature. However, there are a limited number of providers of these swaps, and the initial swap providers might not renew the swaps, and we might not be able to obtain suitable replacement providers. Providers may choose not to renew for 26 various reasons. Our ability to use swaps, other than through a TRS, may also be limited by the REIT qualification requirements because swaps are not qualifying assets and do not produce qualifying income for purposes of the REIT asset and income tests. Declines in the market values of our investments may adversely affect periodic reported results and credit availability, which may reduce earnings and thus cash available for dividends. A substantial portion of our assets is classified for accounting purposes as available-for-sale. Changes in the market values of those assets are directly charged or credited to stockholders’ equity. As a result, a decline in their values may reduce the book value of our assets, and a decline in value of an available-for-sale security that is other than temporary will reduce earnings. A decline in the market value of our assets may adversely affect us particularly where we have borrowed money based on the market value of those assets. In such case, the lender may require us to post additional collateral to support the borrowing. If we cannot post the additional collateral, we would have to liquidate assets at a time when we might not otherwise choose to do so. A reduction in credit available may reduce our earnings and cash available for dividends. Our failure to achieve adequate operating cash flow would impair our ability to pay dividends. As a REIT, we generally must distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income to our stockholders. Our ability to make and sustain cash distributions is based on many factors, some of which are beyond our control. No assurance can be given as to our ability to pay distributions. Loss of our 1940 Act exclusion would adversely affect us and reduce the market price of our shares and our ability to pay dividends. In order to be exempt from regulation under the 1940 Act, we must meet certain exclusions from the definition of investment company. Because we conduct our business through wholly-owned subsidiaries, we also must ensure that each subsidiary so qualifies. To ensure that our main subsidiary, Deerfield Triarc Capital LLC, is not regulated under the 1940 Act, we must ensure that at least 55% of its assets consist of qualifying real estate assets and at least 80% of its assets consist of real estate-related assets (including qualifying real estate assets). And, we generally must ensure that each of our other subsidiaries meets this 55%/80% test or another 1940 Act test—namely, that the subsidiary does not publicly offer its securities and that each owner of the subsidiary is a qualified purchaser. Finally, to ensure that Deerfield Triarc Capital Corp. itself qualifies for an exclusion from regulation under the 1940 Act, we must ensure that no more than 40% of its assets, on an unconsolidated basis, excluding government securities and cash, are investment securities as defined in the 1940 Act. If we fail to satisfy the requirements in the 1940 Act to preserve our exemptions from regulation under the 1940 Act, we could be required to materially restructure our activities and to register as an investment company under the 1940 Act, which could impair our operating results. Rapid changes in the values of our MBS and other real estate-related investments may make it more difficult for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT or exemption from the 1940 Act. If the market value or income potential of our MBS and other real estate-related investments declines as a result of increased interest rates, prepayment rates or other factors, we may need to increase our real estate investments and income or liquidate our non-qualifying assets in order to maintain our REIT qualification or exemption from the 1940 Act. If the decline in real estate asset values or income occurs quickly, this may be especially difficult to accomplish, and may be exacerbated by the illiquid nature of many of our non-real estate assets. We may have to make investment decisions that we otherwise would not make absent the REIT and 1940 Act requirements. We depend on information systems and third parties, and systems failures could disrupt our business, which may reduce the market price of our stock and our ability to pay dividends. Our business is highly dependent on Deerfield Capital’s communications and information systems. Any failure or interruption of these systems could cause delays or other problems in our securities trading activities, including MBS trading activities. This could impair our operating results and reduce the market price of our stock and our ability to pay dividends. 27 Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may affect the market for our stock, the industry in which we conduct our operations and our profitability. Terrorist attacks may harm our results of operations and your investment. We have no assurance that there will not be further terrorist attacks against the United States or U.S. businesses. These attacks or armed conflicts may directly impact the property underlying our ABS securities or the securities markets in general. Losses resulting from these types of events are uninsurable. More generally, any of these events could reduce consumer confidence and spending or increase volatility in the United States and worldwide financial markets and economy. Adverse economic conditions could harm the value of the property underlying our ABS or the securities markets in general, which could reduce our operating results and revenues and increase the volatility of our holdings. Risks Related to Our Investments We may not realize gains or income from our investments. We seek to generate both current income and capital appreciation, but our assets may not appreciate in value (and may decline) and the debt securities may default on interest or principal payments. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains or income from our investments, and the gains that we do realize may not be enough to offset our losses. The income that we realize may not be sufficient to offset our expenses. Our real estate investments are subject to risks particular to real property. We own assets secured by real estate and may own real estate directly. Real estate investments are subject to various risks, including: • acts of God, including earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters, which may result in uninsured losses; • acts of war or terrorism, including the consequences of terrorist attacks, such as those that occurred on September 11, 2001; • adverse changes in national and local economic and market conditions; • changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and the related costs of compliance with laws and regulations, fiscal policies and ordinances; • costs of remediation and liabilities associated with environmental conditions; and • the potential for uninsured or under-insured property losses. The occurrence of these or similar events may reduce our return from an affected property or investment and impair our ability to make distributions to stockholders. The mortgage loans underlying our MBS and ABS are subject to delinquency, foreclosure and loss, which could result in losses to us. Commercial mortgage loans are secured by multi-family or commercial property. They are subject to risks of delinquency and foreclosure, and risks of loss that are greater than similar risks associated with loans made on the security of single-family residential property. The ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by an income-producing property typically is dependent primarily upon the successful operation of the property rather than upon the existence of independent income or assets of the borrower. If the net operating income of the property is reduced, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Such income can be affected by many factors. Residential mortgage loans are secured by single-family residential property. They are subject to risks of delinquency and foreclosure, and risks of loss. The ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by a residential property depends on the income or assets of the borrower. Many factors may impair borrowers’ abilities to repay their loans. ABS are bonds or notes backed by loans or other financial assets. The ability of a borrower to repay these loans or other financial assets depends upon the income or assets of these borrowers. In the event of any default under a mortgage loan held directly by us, we will bear a risk of loss of principal to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the collateral and the principal and accrued interest of the mortgage loan. This could impair our cash flow from operations. In the event of the bankruptcy of a mortgage loan borrower, the loan will be deemed secured only to the extent of the value of the underlying collateral at the time of bankruptcy (as determined by the bankruptcy court). The lien securing the mortgage loan will be subject to the avoidance powers of the bankruptcy trustee or debtor-in-possession to the extent the lien is unenforceable under state law. 28 Foreclosure of a mortgage loan can be expensive and lengthy. This could impair our anticipated return on the foreclosed mortgage loan. RMBS represent interests in or are secured by pools of residential mortgage loans and CMBS represent interests in or are secured by a single commercial mortgage loan or a pool of commercial mortgage loans. Accordingly, the MBS we invest in are subject to all of the risks of the underlying mortgage loans. Our investments in subordinated MBS could subject us to increased risk of losses. In general, losses on an asset securing a mortgage loan included in a securitization will be borne first by the equity holder of the property, then by any cash reserve fund or letter of credit provided by the borrower, and then by the first loss subordinated security holder. In the event of default and the exhaustion of any equity support, reserve fund, letter of credit—and any classes of securities junior to those in which we invest—we may not be able to recover all of our investment in the securities we purchase. In addition, if the underlying mortgage portfolio has been overvalued by the originator, or if the values subsequently decline and, as a result, less collateral is available to satisfy delinquent interest and principal payments due on the related MBS, the securities in which we invest may effectively become the first loss position behind the more senior securities, which may result in significant losses to us. The prices of lower credit quality securities are generally less sensitive to interest rate changes than more highly rated investments, but more sensitive to adverse economic downturns or individual issuer developments. A projection of an economic downturn, for example, could cause a decline in the price of lower credit quality securities because the ability of obligors of mortgages underlying mortgage backed securities to make principal and interest payments or to refinance may be impaired. In this case, existing credit support in the securitization structure may be insufficient to protect us against loss of our principal on these securities. Our assets include high yield and subordinated corporate securities that have greater risks of loss than secured senior loans and if those losses are realized, it could adversely affect our earnings, which could adversely affect our cash available for dividends. Our assets include high yield and subordinated securities, which involve a higher degree of risk than long-term senior secured loans. These securities may not be secured by mortgages or liens on assets, and even if secured may have higher loan-to-value ratios than a senior secured loan. Our right to payment and security interest with respect to such securities may be subordinated to the payment rights and security interests of the senior lender. Therefore, we may be limited in our ability to enforce our rights to collect these loans and to recover any of the loan balance through a foreclosure of collateral. Some of these securities may have an interest only payment schedule, with the principal amount remaining outstanding and at risk until the maturity of the obligation. In this case, a borrower’s ability to repay its obligation may depend upon a liquidity event that will enable the repayment of the obligation. Numerous other factors may affect a company’s ability to repay its high yield and subordinated securities, including the failure to meet its business plan, a downturn in its industry or negative economic conditions. Deterioration in a company’s financial condition and prospects may be accompanied by deterioration in the collateral for the obligation. Losses in our high yield and subordinated securities could adversely affect our earnings and thus cash available for dividends. High yield and subordinated securities from highly leveraged companies may have a greater risk of loss, which could reduce cash available for dividends. Leverage may have material adverse consequences to the companies in which we invest. These companies may be subject to restrictive financial and operating covenants. The leverage may impair their ability to finance their future operations and capital needs. Their flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to business opportunities may thus be limited. A leveraged company’s income and net assets will tend to increase or decrease at a greater rate than if borrowed money were not used. As a result, leveraged companies have a greater risk of loss. Losses on our leveraged investments could reduce our earnings and thus cash available for dividends. We may invest in the equity securities of CDOs, such as Market Square and Pinetree, and such investments involve various risks, including that CDO equity receives distributions from the CDO only if the CDO generates enough income to first pay the holders of its debt securities and its expenses. Our assets include the equity securities of two CDOs (Market Square CLO Ltd. and Pinetree CDO Ltd.) and we buy equity securities of other CDOs. A CDO is a special purpose vehicle that purchases collateral (such as loans or asset-backed securities) that is expected to generate a stream of interest or other income. The CDO issues various classes of securities that participate in that income stream, typically one or more classes of debt instruments and a class of equity securities. The equity is usually entitled to all of the income generated by the CDO after the CDO pays all of the interest due on the debt securities and its expenses. However, there will be little or no income available to the CDO equity if there are defaults on the underlying collateral in excess of certain amounts or the recoveries on such defaulted collateral are less than certain amounts. In that event, the value of our investment in the CDO’s equity 29 could decrease substantially. In addition, the equity securities of CDOs are generally illiquid, and because they represent a leveraged investment in the CDO’s assets, their value will generally fluctuate more than the values of the underlying collateral. We may enter into warehouse agreements in connection with our planned investment in the equity securities of CDOs and if the CDO investment is not consummated, the warehoused collateral will be sold and we must bear any loss resulting from the purchase price of the collateral exceeding the sale price. In connection with our investment in CDOs that Deerfield Capital structures for us, we may enter into warehouse agreements with investment banks or other financial institutions, pursuant to which the institution will initially finance the purchase of the collateral that will be transferred to the CDO. Deerfield Capital will select the collateral. If the CDO transaction is not consummated, the institution would liquidate the warehoused collateral and we would have to pay any amount by which the purchase price of the collateral exceeds its sale price, subject to any negotiated caps on our exposure. In addition, regardless of whether the CDO transaction is consummated, if any of the warehoused collateral is sold before the consummation, we may have to bear any resulting loss on the sale. The amount at risk in connection with the warehouse agreements supporting our investments in CDOs generally is the amount that we have agreed to invest in the equity securities of the CDO. Although we would expect to complete the CDO transaction within about six to nine months after the warehouse agreement is signed, we cannot assure you that we would in fact be able to complete the transaction, or within the expected time period. We will lose money on our repurchase transactions if the counterparty to the transaction defaults on its obligation to resell the underlying security back to us at the end of the transaction term, or if the value of the underlying security has declined as of the end of that term or if we default on our obligations under the repurchase agreement. When we engage in a repurchase transaction, we generally sell securities to the transaction counterparty and receive cash from the counterparty. The counterparty is obligated to resell the securities back to us at the end of the term of the transaction, which is typically 30-90 days. Because the cash we receive from the counterparty when we initially sell the securities is less than the value of those securities (typically about 97% of that value), if the counterparty defaulted on its obligation to resell the securities back to us we would incur a loss on the transaction equal to about 3% of the value of the securities (assuming no change in the value of the securities). We would also lose money on a repurchase transaction if the value of the underlying securities has declined as of the end of the transaction term, as we would have to repurchase the securities for their initial value but would receive securities worth less than that amount. Any losses we incur on our repurchase transactions could adversely affect our earnings and thus our dividend. If we default on one of our obligations under a repurchase transaction, the counterparty can terminate the transaction and cease entering into any other repurchase transactions with us. In that case, we would likely need to establish a replacement repurchase facility with another repurchase dealer in order to continue to leverage our portfolio and carry out our investment strategy. There is no assurance we would be able to establish a suitable replacement facility. Investments in mezzanine loans involve greater risks of loss than senior loans secured by income producing properties. Investments in mezzanine loans take the form of subordinated loans secured by second mortgages on the underlying property or loans secured by a pledge of the ownership interests in the entity that directly or indirectly owns the property. These types of investments involve a higher degree of risk than a senior mortgage loan because the investment may become unsecured as a result of foreclosure by the senior lender. In the event of a bankruptcy of the entity providing the pledge of its ownership interests as security, we may not have full recourse to the assets of the property owning entity, or the assets of the entity may not be sufficient to satisfy our mezzanine loan. If a borrower defaults on our mezzanine loan or debt senior to our loan, or in the event of a borrower bankruptcy, our mezzanine loan will be satisfied only after the senior debt is paid in full. As a result, we may not recover some or all of our investment, which could result in losses. In addition, mezzanine loans may have higher loan to value ratios than conventional mortgage loans, resulting in less equity in the property and increasing the risk of loss of principal. Increases in interest rates could reduce the value of our investments, which could result in reduced earnings or losses and reduce the cash available dividends. We invest indirectly in mortgage loans by purchasing MBS. Under a normal yield curve, an investment in MBS will decline in value if long-term interest rates increase. Despite Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae guarantees of certain of the MBS we own, those guarantees do not protect us from declines in market value caused by changes in interest rates, which may ultimately reduce earnings or result in losses to us, which may reduce cash available for distribution to our stockholders. A significant risk of our MBS investment is that both long-term and short-term interest rates will increase significantly. If long-term rates increased significantly, the market value of these MBS would decline and the duration and weighted average life of the investments would increase. We could realize a loss if the securities were sold. At the same time, an increase in short-term interest rates would increase the amount of interest owed on the repurchase agreements we may enter into in order to finance the purchase of MBS. 30 Market values of our investments may decline without any general increase in interest rates for a number of reasons, such as increases in defaults, increases in voluntary prepayments for those investments that are subject to prepayment risk, and widening of credit spreads. We remain subject to losses on our mortgage portfolio despite our strategy of investing in highly-rated MBS. A significant portion of our assets is invested in MBS that are either agency issued or rated investment grade by at least one rating agency. While highly-rated MBS are generally subject to a lower risk of default than lower credit quality MBS, and may benefit from third-party credit enhancements such as insurance or corporate guarantees, such MBS could be subject to credit losses. Furthermore, ratings may change over time as a result of a number of factors, including greater than expected delinquencies, defaults or credit losses, or a deterioration in the financial strength of corporate guarantors, any of which may reduce the market value of such securities. Furthermore, ratings do not take into account the reasonableness of the issue price, interest rate risk, prepayment risk, extension risk or other risks associated with such MBS. As a result, while we attempt to mitigate our exposure to credit risk in our mortgage portfolio on a relative basis by focusing on highly-rated MBS, we cannot completely eliminate credit risk in these instruments. Some of our investments are recorded at values based on estimates of fair value made by management, and there is thus uncertainty as to the value of these investments. Some of our investments are securities that are not publicly traded. The fair value of such investments is not readily determinable. Depending on the accounting classification, these investments can be carried at fair value, lower of cost or market, or amortized cost with a loan loss reserve. Each of these carrying values is based on an estimate of fair value. Management estimates fair value of these investments quarterly. Because such valuations are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these securities existed. Our stock price could fall if our carrying values based on determinations of fair value of these investments are materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon their disposal. The lack of liquidity in our investments may impair our results. We invest in securities that are not publicly traded. Some of these securities may be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or may be less liquid than publicly traded securities for other reasons. This may make it difficult for us to liquidate such investments if the need arises. In addition, if we must liquidate all or a portion of our investments quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded the investments. We may face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a business entity if we, Deerfield Capital or Triarc may have material non-public information regarding the issuer. Negative covenants in our repurchase agreements may reduce our ability to maintain adequate capital and funding and cash available for dividends. We obtain a significant portion of our funding through repurchase facilities. Certain of our repurchase agreements include negative covenants that if breached, may cause our repurchase transactions to be terminated early, in which event our counterparty could terminate all repurchase transactions existing with us and make any amount due by us to the counterparty payable immediately. If we have to terminate outstanding repurchase transactions and are unable to negotiate more favorable funding terms, our cash will impaired. This may reduce the amount of capital available for investing or reduce our ability to distribute dividends. In addition, we may have to liquidate assets at a time when we might not otherwise choose to do so. A prolonged economic slowdown, a recession or declining real estate values could impair our investments and harm our operating results. Many of our investments may be susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions, which could lead to losses on those investments and a decrease in revenues, net income and assets. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in lenders not extending credit to us, all of which could impair our operating results. We may be exposed to environmental liabilities with respect to properties we own. We may take title to real estate and thus could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. In such a circumstance, we could be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation, and clean-up costs incurred by those parties in connection with environmental contamination, or have to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. Our costs associated with these activities could be substantial. If we are subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be impaired. 31 Our hedging transactions may not completely insulate us from interest rate risk. We typically engage in certain hedging transactions to seek to limit our exposure to changes in interest rates, but this may expose us to separate risks associated with such hedging transactions. We use instruments such as forward contracts and interest rate swaps, caps, collars and floors to seek to hedge against mismatches between the cash flows on our assets and the interest payments on our liabilities or fluctuations in the relative values of our portfolio positions, in each case resulting from changes in interest rates. Hedging against a decline in the values of our portfolio positions does not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the values of these positions or prevent losses if the values decline. Such hedging transactions may also limit the opportunity for gain if the positions increase. Moreover, it may not be possible feasibly to hedge against an interest rate fluctuation that is widely anticipated. The success of our hedging transactions depends on Deerfield Capital’s ability to anticipate interest rate movements. Therefore, while we may enter into such transactions to seek to reduce interest rate risks, unanticipated changes in interest rates may result in poorer overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in any hedging. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions being hedged may vary. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not seek to establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the portfolio holdings being hedged. This may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss. Hedging instruments often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities and involve risks and costs. The cost of using hedging instruments increases as the period covered by the instrument increases and during periods of rising and volatile interest rates. We may increase our hedging activity and thus our hedging costs when interest rates are volatile or rising. Hedging instruments involve the risk that they often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities. Consequently, there may be no requirements with respect to record keeping, financial responsibility or segregation of customer funds and positions with regard to such transactions. The enforceability of agreements underlying derivative transactions may depend on compliance with various legal requirements and, depending on the identity of the counterparty, non-U.S. legal requirements. The business failure of a hedging counterparty of ours will most likely result in a default, which may result in the loss of unrealized profits and force us to cover our resale commitments at the then current market price. Although we will generally seek to reserve the right to terminate our hedging positions, it may not always be possible to dispose of or close out a hedging position without the consent of the hedging counterparty, and we may not be able to enter into an offsetting contract in order to cover our risk. A liquid secondary market might not always exist for our hedging instruments, and we may have to hold a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in losses. Changes in prepayment rates could reduce the value of our MBS, which could reduce our earnings and the cash available for dividends. In the case of residential mortgage loans, there are seldom any restrictions on borrowers’ abilities to prepay their loans. Homeowners tend to prepay mortgage loans faster when interest rates fall. Consequently, owners of the loans have to reinvest the money received from the prepayments at the lower prevailing interest rates. Conversely, homeowners tend not to prepay mortgage loans when interest rates rise. Consequently, owners of the loans are unable to reinvest money that would have otherwise been received from prepayments at the higher rates. This volatility in prepayment rates may impair our ability to maintain targeted amounts of leverage on our mortgage-backed securities portfolio and result in reduced earnings or losses and reduce the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. The Fannie Mae guarantees of principal and interest related to certain of our MBS do not protect us against prepayment risks. Our derivative contracts could expose us to unexpected economic losses. Our investment strategy involves entering into derivative contracts that could require us to fund cash payments in the future under certain circumstances, e.g., the early termination of the derivative agreement caused by an event of default or other early termination event, or the decision by a counterparty to request margin securities that we owe it under the derivative contract. The amount due would be the unrealized loss of the open positions with the counterparty and could also include fees and charges. These economic losses will be reflected in our financial results, and our ability to fund these obligations will depend on the liquidity of our assets and access to capital at the time. The need to fund these obligations could hurt our financial condition. 32 We make investments in non-U.S. dollar denominated investments, which subject us to currency rate exposure and the uncertainty of foreign laws and markets. We may purchase investments denominated in foreign currencies. A change in foreign currency exchange rates may reduce our returns on any of these non-dollar denominated investments. Although we may choose to hedge our foreign currency risk, we may not be able to do so successfully and may incur losses on these investments as a result of exchange rate fluctuations. Investments in foreign countries also subject us to risks of multiple and conflicting tax laws and regulations and political and economic instability abroad, which could reduce our yield on these investments. Our dependence on the management of other entities may adversely affect our business. We do not control the management, investment decisions or operations of the enterprises in which we have invested. Management of those enterprises may decide to change the nature of their assets, or management may otherwise change in a manner that is not satisfactory to us. We typically have no ability to affect these management decisions and we may have only limited ability to dispose of our investments. Our due diligence may not reveal all of an issuer’s liabilities and may not reveal other weaknesses in its business. Before investing in a company, we assess the strength and skills of its management and other factors that we believe are material to the performance of the investment. In this process, we rely on the resources available to us and, in some cases, an investigation by third parties. This process is particularly important and subjective with respect to new companies because there may be little or no information publicly available about them. Our due diligence processes might not uncover all relevant facts, thus resulting in investment losses. Tax Risks Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities. To qualify as a REIT for tax and 1940 Act purposes, we must continually satisfy numerous income, asset and other tests, thus having to forgo investments we might otherwise make and hindering our investment performance. Certain financing activities may subject us to U.S. federal income tax and could have negative tax consequences for our stockholders. We have not and currently do not intend to enter into any transactions that could result in our, or a portion of our assets, being treated as a taxable mortgage pool for federal income tax purposes. However, we might enter into transactions that will have that effect. If we enter into such a transaction at the REIT level, although the law on the matter is unclear, the Internal Revenue Service has taken the position that we would be taxable at the highest corporate income tax rate on a portion of the income arising from a taxable mortgage pool, referred to as “excess inclusion income,” that is allocable to the percentage of our stock held in record name by disqualified organizations. These are generally certain cooperatives, governmental entities and tax-exempt organizations that are exempt from unrelated business taxable income (including certain state pension plans and charitable remainder trusts). They are permitted to own our stock. Because this tax would be imposed on us, all of our investors, including investors that are not disqualified organizations, would bear a portion of the tax cost associated with the classification of us or a portion of our assets as a taxable mortgage pool. A regulated investment company or other pass-through entity owning our stock may also be subject to tax at the highest corporate rate on any excess inclusion income allocated to their record name owners that are disqualified organizations. Nominees who hold our stock on behalf of disqualified organizations also potentially may be subject to this tax. If we were to realize excess inclusion income, recently issued guidance from the Internal Revenue Service indicates that the excess inclusion income would be allocated among our stockholders in proportion to our dividends paid. Excess inclusion income cannot be offset by losses of our stockholders. If the stockholder is a tax-exempt entity and not a disqualified organization, then this income would be fully taxable as unrelated business taxable income under Section 512 of the Internal Revenue Code. If the stockholder is a foreign person, it would be subject to U.S. federal income tax withholding on this income without reduction or exemption pursuant to any otherwise applicable income tax treaty. Failure to qualify as a REIT would subject us to federal income tax, which would reduce the cash available for dividends. We operate in a manner that is intended to cause us to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. However, the tax laws governing REITs are extremely complex, and interpretations of the tax laws governing qualification as a REIT are limited. Qualifying as a REIT requires us to meet numerous income and other tests. While we operate in such a way so as to qualify as a REIT, given the highly complex nature of the rules governing REITs, the ongoing importance of factual determinations, and the possibility of changes in our circumstances, no assurance can be given that we will so qualify for any particular year. 33 If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any calendar year and we do not qualify for certain statutory relief provisions, we would have to pay federal income tax on our taxable income. We might need to borrow money or sell assets in order to pay that tax. Our payment of income tax would decrease the amount of our income available for distribution to our stockholders. We would also no longer have to distribute substantially all of our REIT taxable income to our stockholders. Unless our failure to qualify as a REIT is excused under federal tax laws, we could not re-elect REIT status until the fifth calendar year after the year in which we failed to qualify. Failure to make required distributions would subject us to tax, which would reduce the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. In order to qualify as a REIT, we must distribute annually to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain. To the extent that we satisfy the 90% distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed income. In addition, we will incur a 4% nondeductible excise tax on any amount, by which our distributions in any calendar year are less than the sum of: • 85% of our ordinary income for that year; • 95% of our capital gain net income for that year; and • 100% our undistributed taxable income from prior years. We intend to continue to distribute our net taxable income to our stockholders in a manner intended to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement and to avoid both corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax. However, there is no requirement that domestic TRSs distribute their after-tax net income to their parent REIT or their stockholders, and Deerfield Triarc TRS Holdings, Inc., one of our TRSs, may determine not to make any distributions to us. Our taxable income may substantially exceed our net income as based on generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, because, for example, realized capital losses will be deducted in determining our GAAP net income, but may not be deductible in computing our taxable income. In addition, we may invest in assets that generate taxable income in excess of economic income or in advance of the corresponding cash flow from the assets, referred to as phantom income. Although some types of phantom income are excluded to the extent they exceed 5% of our REIT taxable income in determining the 90% distribution requirement, we will incur corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax with respect to any phantom income items if we do not distribute those items on an annual basis. As a result of the foregoing, we may generate less cash flow than taxable income in a particular year. In that event, we may be required to use cash reserves, incur debt, or liquidate non-cash assets at rates or times that we regard as unfavorable in order to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax in that year. Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates on dividend income from regular corporations. The maximum tax rate for dividends payable to domestic stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates were reduced in recent years from 38.6% to 15% (through 2010). Dividends payable by REITs, however, are generally not eligible for the reduced rates. Although this legislation does not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends paid by REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the stock of REITs, including our common stock. Ownership limitation may restrict change of control or business combination opportunities in which our stockholders might receive a premium for their shares. In order for us to qualify as a REIT for each taxable year, no more than 50% in value of our outstanding capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals during the last half of any calendar year. Individuals for this purpose include natural persons, private foundations, some employee benefit plans and trusts, and some charitable trusts. In order to preserve our REIT qualification, our charter and certain board resolutions generally prohibit any person from directly or indirectly owning more than 7.7% in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of any class or series of the outstanding shares of our capital stock, other than Robert C. Dart and certain entities controlled by Mr. Dart, which are not permitted to own more than 18.5% in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of our common stock. This ownership limitation could discourage a takeover or other transaction in which holders of our common stock might receive a premium for their shares over the then prevailing market price or which holders might believe to be otherwise in their best interests. 34 Our ownership of and relationship with our TRSs is limited and a failure to comply with the limits would jeopardize our REIT status and may result in the application of a 100% excise tax. A REIT may own up to 100% of the stock of one or more TRSs. A TRS may earn income that would not be qualifying income if earned directly by the parent REIT. Both the subsidiary and the REIT must jointly elect to treat the subsidiary as a TRS. A corporation of which a TRS directly or indirectly owns more than 35% of the voting power or value of the stock will automatically be treated as a TRS. Overall, no more than 20% of the value of a REIT’s assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more TRSs. A TRS will pay federal, state and local income tax at regular corporate rates on any income that it earns. In addition, the TRS rules limit the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a TRS to its parent REIT to assure that the TRS is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation. The rules also impose a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis. Deerfield Triarc TRS Holdings, Inc., as a domestic TRS, will pay federal, state and local income tax on its taxable income, and its after-tax net income is available for distribution to us but is not required to be distributed to us. The aggregate value of the TRS stock and securities owned by us will be less than 20% of the value of our total assets (including the TRS stock and securities). Furthermore, we monitor the value of our investments in TRSs for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the rule that no more than 20% of the value of our assets may consist of TRS stock and securities (which is applied at the end of each calendar quarter). In addition, we scrutinize all of our transactions with TRSs to ensure that they are entered into on arm’s-length terms in order to avoid incurring the 100% excise tax described above. There can be no complete assurance, however, that we will be able to comply with the 20% limitation discussed above or to avoid application of the 100% excise tax discussed above. Our foreign TRSs could be subject to federal income tax at the entity level, which would greatly reduce the amounts those entities would have available to distribute to us. Market Square, which is a Cayman Islands company and is the issuer in a CDO transaction, and Deerfield Triarc TRS (Bahamas) Ltd., which is a Bahamas international business corporation and was formed to allow us to make alternative investments through an offshore entity, have elected to be TRSs. We may elect in the future to treat other foreign entities, including CDO issuers, as TRSs. There is a specific exemption from federal income tax for non-U.S. corporations that restrict their activities in the United States to trading stock and securities (or any activity closely related thereto) for their own account whether such trading (or such other activity) is conducted by the corporation or its employees through a resident broker, commission agent, custodian or other agent. We intend that our foreign TRSs will rely on that exemption or otherwise operate in a manner so that they will not be subject to federal income tax on their net income at the entity level. If IRS successfully challenged that tax treatment, that could greatly reduce the amount that our foreign TRSs would have available to distribute to us and to pay to their creditors. We may lose our REIT status if the IRS successfully challenges our characterization of our income from our foreign TRSs. We intend to treat dividends received with respect to our equity investments in Market Square, Deerfield Triarc TRS (Bahamas) Ltd. and any other foreign TRSs as qualifying income for purposes of the 95% gross income test but not the 75% gross income test. Because there is no clear precedent with respect to the qualification of such income for purposes of the REIT gross income tests, no assurance can be given that the IRS will not assert a contrary position. If this income was determined not to qualify for the 95% test, we could be subject to a penalty tax with respect to the income to the extent it and our other nonqualifying income exceeds 5% of our gross income, or we could fail to qualify as a REIT. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively. The REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code substantially limit our ability to hedge MBS and related borrowings. Under these provisions, our annual gross income from qualifying and non-qualifying hedges, together with any other income not generated from qualifying real estate assets, cannot exceed 25% of our gross income. In addition, our aggregate gross income from non-qualifying hedges, fees, and certain other non-qualifying sources cannot exceed 5% of our annual gross income. As a result, we might have to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through Deerfield Triarc TRS Holdings, Inc. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear. The tax on prohibited transactions will limit our investment transactions, including certain methods of securitizing mortgage loans that would be treated as sales for federal income tax purposes. A REIT’s net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, but including mortgage loans, held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. We might be subject to this tax if we were able to sell or securitize loans in a manner that was treated as a sale of the loans for federal income tax purposes. Therefore, in order to avoid the prohibited transactions tax, we may choose not to 35 engage in certain sales of loans and may limit the structures we utilize for our securitization transactions even though such sales or structures might otherwise be beneficial to us. It may be possible to reduce the impact of the prohibited transaction tax and the holding of assets not qualifying as real estate assets for purposes of the REIT asset tests by conducting certain activities, holding non-qualifying REIT assets or engaging in CDO transactions through our TRSs, subject to certain limitations as described above. To the extent that we engage in such activities through domestic TRSs, the income associated with such activities may be subject to full corporate income tax. We may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could reduce the market price of our common stock. At any time, the federal income tax laws or regulations governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws or regulations may be amended. We cannot predict when or if any new federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, or any amendment to any existing federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, will be adopted, promulgated or become effective and any such law, regulation or interpretation may take effect retroactively. We and our stockholders could be adversely affected by any such change in, or any new, federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation. If we make distributions in excess of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, those distributions will be treated as a return of capital, which will reduce the adjusted basis of your stock, and to the extent such distributions exceed your adjusted basis, you may recognize a capital gain. Unless you are a tax-exempt entity, distributions that we make to you generally will be subject to tax as ordinary income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits as determined for federal income tax purposes. If the amount we distribute to you exceeds your allocable share of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, the excess will be treated as a return of capital to the extent of your adjusted basis in your stock. This will reduce your basis in your stock but will not be subject to tax. If the amount we distribute to you exceeds both your allocable share of our current and accumulated earnings and profits and your adjusted basis, this amount will be treated as a gain from the sale or exchange of a capital asset. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 