Risk Factors" in this Annual Report for a description of the risks relating to the Proposed Merger. In addition, we filed a proxy statement on Schedule 14A with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on March 15, 2011 which further discusses the Proposed Merger and related transactions. History of Operations We commenced operations on December 23, 2004 as an externally managed real estate investment trust ("REIT") and completed our initial public offering in July 2005. In December 2007, we acquired DCM's parent company, Deerfield & Company LLC ("Deerfield"). As a result of this acquisition, each of Deerfield and DCM became our indirect, wholly-owned subsidiaries, and we became internally managed. During 2008, we suffered significant losses in our Principal Investing segment and goodwill and intangible asset impairments in our Investment Management segment as a result of the global credit crisis. In response, we implemented cost savings initiatives designed to improve our financial results without adversely impacting our ability to operate our business in a prudent and competitive manner and negotiated significant amendments and waivers to the documents governing our long-term debt. The cost savings initiatives included headcount reductions and reductions in bonus compensation for employees. During 2008, we terminated our REIT status and converted to a C corporation to maximize the use of potential significant tax benefits and provide more flexibility with respect to future capital investment. During 2009, we achieved a return to profitability due to our continued focus on cost containment and growth, and our RMBS portfolio exhibited more stability. We did, however, experience a decline in investment advisory fees due to the liquidation of certain investment funds and CDOs that we managed and a deferral of subordinated management fees from the majority of our CLOs. In a continuation of efforts to reduce expenses, in November 2009, we entered into a lease amendment, which allowed us to relocate to a smaller space in the same building and will result in significantly reduced occupancy costs. In addition, we continued to reduce our alternative asset portfolio and we sold our investment in the preference shares issued by Market Square CLO Ltd. ("Market Square CLO") on June 30, 2009, resulting in the deconsolidation of that entity. 5 Table of Contents During 2010, we remained profitable due in part to increased revenues from our Investment Management segment, a significant restructuring of our long-term debt and continued stability in our RMBS portfolio. In addition, at December 31, 2010, we released the valuation allowance associated with our deferred tax assets which significantly contributed to net income attributable to Deerfield Capital Corp. In June, we acquired CNCIM, an investment manager with four CLOs under management, from Bounty, (the "CNCIM Acquisition"). The CNCIM Acquisition contributed to the increase in our Investment Management segment revenues for 2010, as did the fact that most of our CLOs resumed the current payment of subordinated management fees and began to repay previously deferred subordinated management fees. In connection with this acquisition, Bounty purchased, for cash, $25.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our newly-issued senior subordinated convertible notes (the "Convertible Notes"). The restructuring of our long-term debt consisted of (i) replacing our existing $120.0 million of trust preferred securities with $120.0 million of junior subordinated notes, all of which contain significantly reduced covenant requirements, and $95.0 million of which are subject to the significantly lower interest rate of 1.00% through April 30, 2015, and (ii) discharging our $73.9 million of our senior secured notes at a significant discount, in part with the cash from the issuance of the Convertible Notes. Our Strategy Currently, our growth strategy centers on four areas: (i) the acquisition of existing CDO contracts from other managers, (ii) the internal development of new product offerings relying on existing capabilities, (iii) the introduction of new products resulting from acquisitions of and ventures with external managers and (iv) the creation of new CLOs as the market environment improves and the economics for new issuances become attractive to investors. Consistent with our strategy, we acquired CNCIM, an investment manager with four CLOs under management on June 9, 2010 and in prior years, acquired the management contracts for Robeco CDO II Limited and Mayfair Euro CDO I B.V. We believe the Proposed Merger will provide enhanced opportunities to pursue our growth strategy. The Proposed Merger is also expected to result in significant economies of scale and synergies as a result of the combined company's larger size and improved financial condition, including cash flow and profitability. We intend to grow our Investment Management segment by launching new investment products that we believe will diversify our revenue streams and take advantage of our core competencies of credit analysis and asset management. We intend to make investments in certain of these new investment products. We believe that the growth of fee-based income through the management of alternative investment products will provide the most attractive risk-adjusted return on capital. We are also focused on managing our Principal Investing segment by opportunistically redeploying our capital into other fee-based strategies. In the near term, we expect to continue to hold our RMBS portfolio both for the income it provides and as a source of liquidity. Competition We compete for investment management clients and AUM with numerous other investment managers, including those affiliated with major commercial banks, broker-dealers and other financial institutions. The factors considered by clients in choosing us or a competitor include the past performance of the accounts we manage, the background and experience of our key portfolio management personnel, our reputation in the fixed income asset management industry, our advisory fees and the structural features of the investment products (such as CDOs and investment funds) that we offer. Some of our competitors have greater portfolio management resources than us, have managed client accounts for longer periods of time or have other competitive advantages over us. The Reincorporation We are also seeking stockholder approval of our reincorporation in Delaware, which will be effected by the merger of DFR with and into our newly formed wholly-owned subsidiary, Deerfield Capital Corp., a Delaware corporation ("Deerfield (Delaware)"). Upon the consummation of the merger, Deerfield (Delaware) will succeed to the assets and liabilities of the Company and will continue to operate the business under the name "Deerfield Capital Corp." 6 Table of Contents Operating and Regulatory Structure Exclusion from Regulation under the 1940 Act We have operated, and intend to continue to operate, in such a way as to be excluded from registration under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the "1940 Act"). We and our wholly-owned subsidiaries are primarily excluded from registration under the 1940 Act because we are not engaged, and do not propose to engage, in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities and do not own or propose to acquire "investment securities" having a value over 40% of our assets, on an unconsolidated basis, excluding cash and government securities (the "40% Test"). "Investment securities" excludes, among other things, majority-owned subsidiaries that rely on the 40% Test and those that rely on Section 3(c)(5)(C), the mortgage exemption. One of our majority-owned subsidiaries historically has relied on and intends to rely on the mortgage exemption, and several of our other majority-owned subsidiaries rely on the 40% Test. Governmental Regulations DCM is registered with the SEC as an investment adviser and with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, as a commodity trading advisor. In these capacities, DCM is subject to various regulatory requirements and restrictions with respect to our asset management activities (in addition to other laws). In addition, investment vehicles managed by DCM are subject to various securities and other laws. CNCIM is not registered with the SEC or any state securities authority as an investment adviser, pursuant to exemptions from such registration, but, as a wholly-owned subsidiary of DCM, it is operated as if subject to the same regulatory requirements as DCM. You may obtain a copy of DCM's Brochure in lieu of SEC Form ADV Part II upon request by contacting our Investor Relations Officer at the address below. Employees As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately 64 full-time employees. Available Information Our Internet address is www.deerfieldcapital.com. We make available free of charge, on or through the "SEC Filings" section of our website, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Also posted on our website, and available in print upon request to our Investor Relations Department, are the charters for our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which governs our directors, officers and employees. Within the time period required by the SEC and the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC ("NASDAQ"), we will post on our website any amendment to our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and any waiver applicable to our senior financial officers, and our executive officers or directors. In addition, information concerning purchases and sales of our equity securities by our directors and Section 16 reporting officers is posted on our website. Information on our website is not part of this Annual Report and is not deemed incorporated by reference into this Annual Report of any other public filing made with the SEC. Our Investor Relations Officer can be contacted at Deerfield Capital Corp., 6250 North River Road, 12th Floor, Rosemont, Illinois 60018, Attn: Glenn Duffy, Investor Relations, Telephone: (773) 380-1635. 7 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be impacted by a number of factors. The following sets forth the most significant factors that make an investment in our company speculative or risky. In addition to the following risk factors, please also refer to the section entitled "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements." Risks Related to Our Business Our existing recourse indebtedness and the inability to access capital markets could restrict our business activities or adversely affect our financial performance. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $383.7 million of outstanding recourse indebtedness, including long-term indebtedness in the form of $120.0 million of junior subordinated notes and $16.8 million of Convertible Notes. $25.0 million of our junior subordinated notes bear interest at a variable interest rate, which may subject us to interest rate risk and increase our debt service obligations if such interest rate increases. In addition, the debt instruments governing our indebtedness contain covenants that may restrict our business activities, and our failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under our indebtedness. Furthermore, we are permitted by the terms of our notes and our other debt instruments to incur substantial additional indebtedness. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, to refinance our debt obligations or to access capital markets or otherwise obtain additional financing on commercially reasonable terms could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Additionally, our return on investments and available cash flow may be reduced to the extent that changes in market conditions increase the cost of our financing relative to the income that can be derived from the assets acquired. Our outstanding recourse indebtedness also includes approximately $246.9 million of short-term indebtedness in the form of repurchase agreements as of December 31, 2010. As this indebtedness matures, we must either enter into new borrowings or liquidate certain of our investments at times when we might otherwise not choose to do so. Lenders may seek to use a maturity date as an opportune time to demand additional terms or increased collateral requirements that could be adverse to us and harm our operations. In addition, an increase in short-term interest rates when we seek new borrowings would reduce the spread between the returns on our assets and the cost of our borrowings, which could adversely affect our financial performance. We operate in highly competitive markets, and we may not be able to grow our assets under management. The alternative asset management industry is very competitive and subject to rapid change. Many firms offer similar and additional investment management products and services to the same types of clients that we target. We currently focus almost exclusively on fixed income securities and related financial instruments, which is in contrast to numerous other asset managers with comparable AUM, which have significant background and experience in both the equity and debt markets. In addition, many of our competitors have or may in the future develop greater financial and other resources, more extensive distribution capabilities, more effective marketing strategies, more attractive investment vehicle structures and broader name recognition. Additionally, if other asset managers offer services and products at more competitive prices than us, we may not be able to maintain our current fee structure. Investment strategies and products, including CDOs, that had historically been attractive to investors may lose their appeal for various reasons. In such case, we would have to develop new strategies and products in order to remain competitive. It could be both expensive and difficult for us to develop new strategies and products, and we may not be successful in this regard. These competitive pressures could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Currently, the substantial majority of our investment products are CDOs that cannot be redeemed or terminated by investors unless certain conditions are met or they are not yet redeemable or terminable by investors at all. However, with the passage of time or upon the satisfaction of such conditions, these investment products will be redeemed, and we will no longer receive investment advisory fees related to these products. In addition, the prepayment of the assets contained in the CDOs we manage and our inability to reinvest the proceeds of such prepayments in accordance with the investment guidelines of the CDO will reduce the asset base on which our fees are paid and thus the amount of our investment advisory fees. If we are unable to 8 Table of Contents launch new products and grow assets under management to sufficiently replace lost assets under management, our revenues will decline. A reduction in the amount or value of client assets could significantly reduce our investment management and performance fees and adversely affect our financial performance. DCM's success depends on its ability to earn investment advisory fees from the client accounts it manages. Such fees generally consist of payments based on the amount of assets in the account (management fees) and on the profits earned by the account or the returns to certain investors in the account (performance fees). If there is a reduction in an account's assets, there will be a corresponding reduction in DCM's management fees from the account and a likely reduction in DCM's performance fees, if any, relating to the account, since the smaller the account's asset base, the smaller the potential profits earned by the account. There could be a reduction in an account's assets as the result of investment losses in the account, the withdrawal by investors of some or all of their capital in the account, the prepayment of the assets in the account if we are unable to reinvest the proceeds or forced liquidation of the assets in the account. As a result, a reduction in the value of client assets and investment advisory fees may adversely affect our financial performance. We may be unable to maintain adequate liquidity to support our ongoing operations and planned growth. As of December 31, 2010, we had unrestricted cash and cash equivalents of $50.1 million and net equity in our financed RMBS portfolio of $15.2 million. In addition, cash generated from operations and outstanding indebtedness may not provide sufficient liquidity to fund our operations and pay general corporate expenses. Declines in the fair value of our assets may additionally adversely affect our liquidity. If we are unable to maintain adequate liquidity, we may be unable to support our ongoing operations and planned growth, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We may leverage our assets and a decline in the fair value of such assets may adversely affect our financial performance. We may leverage our assets through borrowings, generally through warehouse facilities, repurchase agreements, secured loans, securitizations (including the issuance of CDOs) and other borrowings. A rapid decline in the fair value of our leveraged assets, such as the declines we experienced in the fourth quarter of 2007 and the first quarter of 2008, may adversely affect us. Lenders may require us to post additional collateral to support the borrowing. If we cannot post the additional collateral, we may have to rapidly liquidate assets, which we may be unable to do on favorable terms or at all. Even after liquidating assets, we may still be unable to post the required collateral, further harming our liquidity and subjecting us to liability to our lenders for the declines in the fair values of the collateral. A reduction in credit availability may reduce our earnings, liquidity and available cash. Decreases in the fair value of our RMBS or increases in the prepayment rates thereon may also cause us to sell investment securities which we may be unable to do on favorable terms or at all, which could cause liquidity pressures or shortfalls. We compete for investment opportunities with larger institutions. We compete for investments with various other investors, such as other public and private funds, commercial and investment banks and commercial finance and other companies. Many of our competitors are substantially larger than us, have considerably more financial and other resources and may have investment objectives that overlap with ours, which may create competition for investment opportunities with limited supply. Some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us, and may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. The competitive pressures we face could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We enter into repurchase transactions which will expose us to substantial risks that, if realized, could adversely affect our financial performance. We obtain a significant portion of our funding for our Principal Investing Portfolio through repurchase facilities. When we engage in a repurchase transaction, we generally sell securities to the transaction 9 Table of Contents counterparty and receive cash from the counterparty. The counterparty is obligated to resell the securities back to us at the end of the term of the transaction, which is currently one to 30 days. We would lose money on a repurchase transaction if the value of the underlying securities has declined as of the end of the transaction term, as we would have to repurchase the securities for their initial value but would receive securities worth less than that amount. Because the cash we receive from the counterparty when we initially sell the securities is less than the value of those securities (by the margin), if the counterparty defaults on its obligation to resell the securities back to us, we would incur a loss on the transaction equal to such margin (assuming no change in the value of the securities). Any losses we incur on our repurchase transactions could adversely affect our earnings. Certain of our repurchase agreements include negative covenants and collateral posting requirements. When the estimated fair value of the existing pledged collateral under such agreements declines and such lenders may demand additional collateral (i.e., initiate a margin call). We may not have the funds available to satisfy any of these calls and may have to sell assets at a time when we might be able to do so on favorable terms or at all, thereby suffering significant losses and harming our liquidity. Additionally, if we breach the negative covenant or collateral posting requirements, our repurchase transactions may be terminated early, in which event our counterparty could terminate all repurchase transactions existing with us and make any amount due by us to the counterparty payable immediately. If we have to terminate outstanding repurchase transactions and are unable to negotiate new and acceptable funding terms, our liquidity will be impaired. This may reduce the amount of capital available for investing. In addition, we may have to liquidate assets at a time when we might not be able to do so on favorable terms or at all. There is no assurance we would be able to establish suitable replacement facilities. We are exposed to risk based on the concentration of the majority of our repurchase agreements with a single counterparty. Our repurchase agreement liabilities are significantly concentrated with a single counterparty. Should that counterparty decide to or be forced to exit the repurchase agreement financing business or to significantly increase the margins or haircuts associated with its repurchase agreements, we may be required to enter into replacement agreements with another counterparty with potentially less favorable terms. In addition, we run the risk of not being able to identify a new counterparty, in which case, we would have significantly reduced access to repurchase agreement financing. Either of these results could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We expect to enter into warehouse agreements in connection with our potential investment in and management of CDOs, which may expose us to substantial risks. In connection with our potential investment in and management of new CDOs, we expect to enter into warehouse agreements with warehouse providers such as investment banks or other financial institutions, pursuant to which the warehouse provider will initially finance the purchase of the collateral that will be ultimately transferred to the CDO. We will typically select the collateral in the warehouse. If the CDO transaction is not consummated, the warehouse collateral may be liquidated, and we may be required to pay any amount by which the purchase price of the collateral exceeds its sale price and may be liable for certain of the expenses associated with the warehouse or planned CDO, subject to any negotiated caps on our exposure. In addition, regardless of whether the CDO transaction is consummated, if any of the warehoused collateral is sold before the consummation, we may have to bear any resulting loss on the sale. The amount at risk in connection with the warehouse agreements supporting our investments in CDOs will vary and may not be limited to the amount that we have agreed to invest in the equity securities of the CDO. Although we would expect to complete the CDO transaction within six to nine months after the warehouse agreement is signed, we may not be able to complete the transaction within the expected time period or at all. Our business and financial performance may be adversely affected by market, economic and other industry conditions. Our business and financial performance may be adversely affected by market, economic and other industry conditions, such as the economic slowdown and recessions that were experienced in the United States in 2008, which could lead to losses on our investments or in the assets held in the products we manage and a decrease in revenues, net income and assets. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in lenders not extending credit to us, all of which could impair 10 Table of Contents our operating results. While our business environment and that of many of the entities in which we invest was extremely challenging in 2008 and 2009, we saw improvements in our business as the markets stabilized in 2010. There is no assurance that these conditions will continue to improve in the near term or at all. If the economic slowdown and adverse business conditions resume or get worse, we expect our results of operations to be adversely affected. Our quarterly results could fluctuate and may not be indicative of our future quarterly performance. Our quarterly operating results could fluctuate; therefore investors should not rely on past quarterly results to be indicative of our performance in future quarters. Factors that could cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate include, among other things, variations in quarterly fair value determinations of our assets and derivatives, impairments on our loans held for investment and intangible assets (including goodwill), changes in interest rates affecting our interest income and interest expense and our provision for income tax. Because the value we record for certain investments is based on estimates of fair value made by management, we are exposed to substantial risks. Some of our investments are securities that are not publicly traded. The fair value of such investments is not readily determinable. Depending on the accounting classification, these investments can be carried at fair value, lower of cost or market, or amortized cost with a loan loss reserve. Each of these carrying values is based on an estimate of fair value. Management reports estimated fair value of these investments quarterly, which may cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate. Therefore, our past quarterly results may not be indicative of our performance in future quarters. In addition, because such valuations are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these securities existed and we may be unable to realize the carrying value upon a sale of these assets. Our business could be impaired if we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel. We depend on the diligence, experience, skill and network of business contacts of our executive officers and employees for the evaluation, negotiation, structuring and monitoring of our investments and the operation of our business. Additionally, certain of our investment management contracts may be tied to the retention of certain key employees. For example, DCM generally assigns the management of its investment products to specific teams, consisting of DCM portfolio management and other personnel, most of whom are not bound by employment agreements. The loss of a particular member or members of such a team could cause investors in the product to withdraw all or a portion of their investment in the product, and adversely affect the marketing of the product to new investors and the product's performance. In the case of certain CDOs, DCM can be removed as investment advisor upon its loss of specified key employees. In the case of certain other accounts, investors may have the right to redeem their investments upon DCM's loss of specified key employees. In addition to the loss of specific portfolio management team members, the loss of one or more members of DCM's senior management involved in supervising the portfolio teams and operating our business could have similar adverse effects on DCM's investment products or our business. Accordingly, the inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could affect our ability to provide an acceptable level of service to our clients and take advantage of new opportunities, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. We may in the future issue shares of additional capital stock to raise proceeds for a wide variety of purposes, which could dilute and therefore reduce the value of our existing outstanding capital stock. We may seek to issue shares of our capital stock, either in public offerings, private transactions or both, to raise additional capital or enter into strategic transactions. Such issuances could substantially dilute the stock of our existing stockholders without a corresponding increase in value. We may raise capital for a wide variety of purposes, such as implementing our business plan and repaying indebtedness. Our management will have broad discretion over how we use the proceeds of any capital raise. We may not be able to raise capital at the time or times that we wish, in the amounts we wish, or on the terms or at the prices we consider favorable to us and our stockholders. We may use the proceeds of any future offering in ways in which holders of our capital stock disagree and that yield less than our expected return, or no return at all, which could result in substantial losses to us. 11 Table of Contents Loss of our 1940 Act exemption could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated and could have a material adverse effect on our business and the price of our shares. We rely primarily on section 3(a)(1)(C) for our exclusion from the registration requirements of the 1940 Act. This provision requires that we neither engage nor propose to engage in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities nor own or propose to acquire "investment securities" having a value exceeding 40% of the value of our total assets on an unconsolidated basis, or the 40% Test. "Investment securities" excludes U.S. government securities and securities of majority-owned subsidiaries that are not themselves investment companies and are not relying on the exception from the definition of investment company under section 3(c)(1) or section 3(c)(7) of the 1940 Act. One of our majority-owned subsidiaries historically has relied on and may in the future rely on the mortgage exemption, and several of our other majority-owned subsidiaries rely on the 40% Test. In 2008, we could not rely on our historical exclusion from regulation as an investment company and had to rely on Rule 3a-2, which provides a safe harbor exemption, not to exceed one year, which for us expired in early March 2009. We were able to restore our compliance prior to March 2009. Reliance upon Rule 3a-2 is permitted only once every three years. As a result, if we fail to meet our current exemption within three years and another exemption is not available, we may be required to register as an investment company. If we were to be deemed an investment company, restrictions imposed by the 1940 Act, including limitations on our capital structure and our ability to transact with affiliates, could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated and would have a material adverse effect on our business and the price of our shares. The accounting rules applicable to certain of our transactions are highly complex and require the application of significant judgment and assumptions by our management. In addition, changes in accounting interpretations or assumptions could impact our financial statements. Accounting rules for consolidations, income taxes, business acquisitions, transfers of financial assets, securitization transactions and other aspects of our operations are highly complex and require the application of judgment and assumptions by management. The consolidation of VIEs is subject to periodic reassessment which could lead to the deconsolidation of previously consolidated entities or the consolidation of entitles that were previously not required to be consolidated. Deferred tax assets are subject to the establishment of a valuation allowance in the event management concludes that the tax benefits of certain timing differences may not be realized. Business acquisitions require the valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Assets acquired include intangible assets, including goodwill that will be subject to periodic testing and evaluation for impairment. These complexities could lead to a delay in the preparation of our financial information. In addition, changes in accounting rules, interpretations or assumptions could materially impact the presentation, disclosure and usability of our financial statements. Failure to develop effective business continuity plans could disrupt our operations and cause financial losses. We operate in an industry that is highly dependent on information systems and technology. We depend to a substantial degree on the availability of our office facilities and the proper functioning of our computer and telecommunications systems. Although we have established a significant disaster recovery program, a disaster, such as water damage to our office, an explosion or a prolonged loss of electrical power, could materially interrupt our business operations and cause material financial loss, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability, which, in turn, could depress our stock price. Additionally, we cannot assure holders of our stock that the cost of maintaining those services and technology will not materially increase from its current level. Such an increase in costs related to these information systems could have a material and adverse effect on us. Bounty exercises significant influence over us, including through its ability to elect three of nine members of our Board. Our common stock owned by Bounty represented approximately 40.7% of the outstanding shares of our common stock as of March 28, 2011 (excluding the shares of common stock issuable upon conversion or exercise of the Convertible Notes, restricted stock units or warrants). Assuming Bounty elects to convert the entire principal amount of the Convertible Notes and we have not elected to pay PIK Interest, the common stock owned by Bounty will represent approximately 56.7% of the outstanding shares of our common stock as 12 Table of Contents of March 28, 2011 (excluding the exercise of restricted stock units or warrants). There are no restrictions on Bounty's ability to vote the shares of our common stock owned by it other than a voting agreement relating to the Proposed Merger. As a result, Bounty may have the ability to significantly influence the outcome of any matter submitted for the vote of our stockholders, including the amendment of our organizational documents, acquisitions or other business combinations involving us and disapproving extraordinary transactions such as a takeover attempt. In addition, we have adopted a majority voting bylaw, so that Bounty will be in a position to block the election of any director nominated by our Nominating Committee. The Stockholders Agreement provides that if Bounty holds at least 25% of the outstanding shares of our common stock (including shares issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes), then Bounty will have the right to designate three (one of whom must qualify as an independent director) out of nine directors to the Board. If Bounty holds less than 25% but holds 15% or more, then Bounty will have the right to designate two out of nine directors to the Board, and if Bounty holds less than 15% but holds 5% or more, Bounty will have the right to designate one director out of nine directors to the Board. The Board has established a strategic committee consisting of two directors designated by Bounty and two directors designated by our independent directors not designated by Bounty. The strategic committee reports and makes recommendations to the Board regarding: (i) the identification and execution of merger and acquisition opportunities; (ii) setting direction for us with management, including new investment initiatives and investment products; (iii) the hiring, dismissal and scope of responsibility of senior management; and (iv) the integration of the CLO platforms of CNCIM and us, and if approved by the Board, managing the execution of such actions. As a result, the directors elected to the Board by Bounty may exercise significant influence on matters considered by the Board. Bounty may have interests that diverge from, or even conflict with, our interests and those of our other stockholders. We have goodwill and other intangibles assets that may become impaired and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. At December 31, 2010, we had $11.3 million of goodwill and $23.4 million of intangible assets. Goodwill and other intangible assets are tested for impairment on an annual basis, or when facts and circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. If these tests indicate that an asset has been impaired, we will recognize a charge to results of operations, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to substantial risk from litigation, regulatory investigations and potential securities laws liability and may face significant damage to our professional reputation as a result of such allegations and negative publicity associated therewith. Many aspects of our business involve substantial risks of litigation, regulatory investigations and/or arbitration, and from time to time, we are involved in various legal proceedings in the course of operating our business. We may be exposed to liability under federal and state securities laws, other federal and state laws and court decisions, as well as rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC and other regulatory bodies. We and/or certain of our past and present officers, have been subject to regulatory investigations and proceedings, in the past and have been subject to claims alleging violation of laws, rules and regulations, which have resulted in the payment of disgorgement and other amounts. An adverse resolution of any lawsuit, legal or regulatory proceeding or claim against us could result in substantial costs or reputational harm to us, and have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. In addition to these financial costs and risks, the defense of litigation or arbitration may divert resources and management's attention from operations. Asset managers such as DCM also are particularly vulnerable to losing clients because of adverse publicity. Accordingly, allegations or an adverse resolution of any lawsuit, legal or regulatory proceeding or claim against us, could materially harm our financial performance. Regulatory risk is substantial in our business and non-compliance with regulations, or changes in regulations, could have a significant impact on the conduct of our business and our financial performance. DCM is heavily regulated as an investment adviser, primarily at the federal level. Non-compliance with applicable laws or regulations could result in sanctions being levied against us, including fines and censures, suspension or expulsion from a certain jurisdiction or market, or the revocation of licenses. Non-compliance with applicable laws or regulations could also adversely affect our reputation, prospects, revenues and earnings. 13 Table of Contents In addition, changes in current legal, regulatory, accounting, tax or compliance requirements or in governmental policies could adversely affect our operations, revenues and earnings by, among other things, increasing expenses and reducing investor interest in certain products we offer. Additionally, our profitability could be affected by rules and regulations that impact the business and financial communities generally, including changes to the laws governing state and federal taxation. In July 2010, the U.S. Congress enacted the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act"), in part to impose significant investment restrictions and capital requirements on banking entities and other organizations that are significant to U.S. financial markets. For instance, the Dodd-Frank Act will impose significant restrictions on the proprietary trading activities of certain banking entities and subject other systemically significant organizations regulated by the U.S. Federal Reserve to increased capital requirements and quantitative limits for engaging in such activities. The Dodd-Frank Act also seeks to reform the asset-backed securitization market (including the RMBS and CDO markets) by requiring the retention of a portion of the credit risk inherent in the pool of securitized assets and by imposing additional registration and disclosure requirements. Certain of the new requirements and restrictions exempt Agency RMBS, other government issued or guaranteed securities, or other securities. Nonetheless, the Dodd-Frank Act also imposes significant regulatory restrictions on the origination of residential mortgage loans. While the full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act cannot be assessed until implementing regulations are released, the Dodd-Frank Act's extensive requirements may have a significant effect on the financial markets, and may affect our ability to launch new CDOs and the availability or terms of financing from our lender counterparties and the availability or terms of RMBS, both of which may have an adverse effect on our business. The federal conservatorship of the Federal National Mortgage Association ("Fannie Mae") and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation ("Freddie Mac") and related efforts, along with any changes in laws and regulations affecting the relationship between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the U.S. Government, may adversely affect our business. Due to increased market concerns about Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac's ability to withstand future credit losses associated with securities held in their investment portfolios, and on which they provide guarantees, without the direct support of the U.S. Government, on July 30, 2008, Congress passed the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008, or the HERA. Among other things, the HERA established the Federal Housing Finance Agency, or FHFA, which has broad regulatory powers over Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. On September 6, 2008, the FHFA placed Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac into conservatorship and, together with the U.S. Treasury, established a program designed to boost investor confidence in Fannie Mae's and Freddie Mac's debt and Agency RMBS. As the conservator of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the FHFA controls and directs the operations of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and may (1) take over the assets of and operate Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac with all the powers of the shareholders, the directors and the officers of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and conduct all business of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac; (2) collect all obligations and money due to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac; (3) perform all functions of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac which are consistent with the conservator's appointment; (4) preserve and conserve the assets and property of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac; and (5) contract for assistance in fulfilling any function, activity, action or duty of the conservator. Although the Treasury has committed capital to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, there can be no assurance that these actions will be adequate for their needs. If these actions are inadequate, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could continue to suffer losses and could fail to honor their guarantees and other obligations. The future roles of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could be significantly reduced and the nature of their guarantees could be considerably diminished. Any changes to the nature of the guarantees provided by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could redefine what constitutes Agency RMBS and could have broad adverse market implications and severe adverse consequences to our business. Such consequences to us may include an inability to finance our investments in Agency RMBS under our repurchase agreements since any decline in their value, or perceived market uncertainty about their value, would make it more difficult for us to obtain financing on acceptable terms or at all, or to maintain our compliance with the terms of any financing transactions, or to maintain our exemption under the 1940 Act. Further, the current credit support provided by the Treasury to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and any additional credit support it may provide in the future, could have the effect of lowering the interest rates we 14 Table of Contents expect to receive from Agency RMBS, thereby tightening the spread between the interest we earn on these securities and the cost of financing them. All of the foregoing as well as unforeseen consequences resulting from the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our financial performance. We do not know the impact on our business of the actions by U.S. and foreign governments, central banks and other governmental and regulatory bodies attempting to stabilize and strengthen the financial and real estate markets or their increased focus on the regulation of our industry. In recent years, U.S. and foreign governments, central banks and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken a number of steps to attempt to stabilize and strengthen the U.S. and global financial markets and economies. In particular, in the U.S., these efforts have included direct government investments in, and guarantees of, troubled financial institutions as well as government-sponsored programs such as the Troubled Asset Relief Program in 2008 and the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act imposes new regulations and significant investment restrictions and capital requirements on banking entities and other organizations that are significant to the U.S. financial markets and could increase our costs of operating as a public company. Furthermore, many key aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act will be established by various regulatory bodies and other groups over the next several years. We are not able to predict the impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition of these efforts by U.S. and foreign governments, central banks or other governmental and regulatory bodies or the impact of future regulation of our industry. Failure to qualify as a REIT in prior years would subject us to federal income tax. Prior to our 2008 tax year, we operated in a manner that was intended to cause us to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. However, the tax laws governing REITs are extremely complex, and interpretations of the tax laws governing qualification as a REIT are limited. Qualifying as a REIT required us to meet numerous income and other tests. Given the highly complex nature of the rules governing REITs, the ongoing importance of factual determinations, and the possibility of changes in our circumstances, no assurance can be given that we qualified for any particular year. If we failed to qualify as a REIT prior to our 2008 tax year and we do not qualify for certain statutory relief provisions, we would have to pay federal income tax on our taxable income for the year of the failure and for the following four years. Foreign corporate entities in which we have invested could be subject to federal income tax at the entity level, which would greatly reduce the amounts those entities would have available to distribute to us. DFR Middle Market CLO Ltd. ("DFR MM CLO") is a Cayman Islands exempted limited liability company and is the issuer of a CLO transaction in which we have invested. We have also invested in other foreign corporate entities and may in the future invest in new foreign corporate entities. There is a specific exemption from federal income tax for non-U.S. corporations that restrict their activities in the United States to trading stock and securities (or any activity closely related thereto) for their own account whether such trading (or such other activity) is conducted by the corporation or its employees through a resident broker, commission agent, custodian or other agent. We intend that our foreign corporate investments will rely on that exemption or otherwise operate in a manner so that they will not be subject to federal income tax on their net income at the entity level. If the IRS successfully challenged the qualification of our foreign corporate investment for the exemption from federal income tax described above, that could greatly reduce the amount that our foreign corporate entities would have available to pay to their creditors and to distribute to us. Our results of operations may be negatively affected by our future tax liabilities. As a result of the stock issuance to Bounty in connection with the CNCIM Acquisition, we experienced an ownership change under Section 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which will severely limit our ability to use our existing net operating losses ("NOLs") and net capital losses ("NCLs") to offset our taxable income and capital gains recognized after the CNCIM Acquisition. Accordingly, to the extent we have future taxable income, we anticipate that we will incur federal corporate income tax liabilities, which may have a significant impact on our results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Specific Risks Related to Our Investment Management Segment DCM's performance fees may increase the volatility of our cash flows, which could adversely affect our financial performance. Historically, a portion of DCM's revenues has been derived from performance fees on the various accounts that DCM manages. Performance fees are generally based on the profits DCM generates for client accounts or the returns to certain investors in those accounts. With respect to DCM's CDOs, DCM is entitled to performance fees only if the returns on the related portfolios exceed agreed-upon return targets. Performance fees, if any, may vary from period to period in relation to volatility in investment returns, causing DCM's cash flows to be more volatile than if it did not manage assets on a performance fee basis. Adverse credit and capital markets conditions could significantly increase the volatility of the investment funds managed by DCM and decrease the likelihood that DCM will earn performance fees. Also, alternative asset managers typically derive a greater portion of their revenues from performance fees than traditional asset managers, thus increasing the potential volatility in DCM's cash flows. The volatility in DCM's cash flows and decreases in performance fees could harm our financial performance. Poor investment performance could lead to a loss of clients and a decline in DCM's revenues. Investment performance is a key factor for the retention of client assets, the growth of DCM's assets under management and the generation of investment advisory fee revenue. Poor investment performance, including downgrades of ratings assigned to the portfolios DCM manages, could impair DCM's revenues and growth because: existing clients might withdraw funds or redeem existing products in favor of better performing products, which would result in lower investment advisory fees for DCM; DCM's subordinate management fees for a CDO may be deferred or never received; DCM's ability to attract funds from existing and new clients might diminish; and DCM might earn minimal or no performance fees. The failure of DCM's investment products to perform well both on an absolute basis and in relation to competing products, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on DCM's business and our financial performance. DCM derives much of its revenues from investment management agreements that may be terminated on short notice and without cause. DCM derives a substantial portion of its revenues from investment management agreements with accounts that generally have the right to remove DCM as the investment advisor of the account and replace it with a substitute investment advisor under certain specified conditions. Some of these investment management agreements may be terminated with or without cause. With respect to DCM's agreements with some of the CDOs it manages, DCM can be removed without cause by investors that hold a specified amount of the securities issued by the CDO. Additionally, all of DCM's agreements with CDOs allow investors that hold a specified amount of securities issued by the CDO to remove DCM for "cause," which typically includes DCM's violation of the management agreement or the indenture of the CDO, DCM's breach of its representations and warranties under the agreement, DCM's bankruptcy or insolvency, fraud or a criminal offense by DCM or its employees, and the failure of certain of the CDO's performance tests. These "cause" provisions may be triggered from time to time with respect to our CDOs, and as a result, investors could elect to remove DCM as the investment manager of such CDOs. Furthermore, DCM's investment advisory agreements with separately managed accounts are typically terminable by the client without penalty on 30 days' notice or less. The termination of DCM's investment management agreements could adversely affect our financial performance. DCM may experience declines in and deferrals of investment advisory fee income from its CDOs due to defaults, downgrades and depressed market values with respect to the collateral underlying such CDOs. Under the investment management agreements between DCM and the CDOs it manages, payment of DCM's management fees is generally subject to a "waterfall" structure. Pursuant to these "waterfalls," all or a 16 Table of Contents portion of DCM's fees may be deferred if, among other things, the CDOs do not generate sufficient cash flows to pay the required interest on the notes they have issued to investors and certain expenses they have incurred. Deferrals could occur if the issuers of the collateral underlying the CDOs default on or defer payments of principal or interest relating to such collateral. Due to severe levels of defaults and delinquencies on the assets underlying certain of the CDOs, DCM has experienced declines in and deferrals of its investment advisory fees. If such defaults and delinquencies resume, DCM will experience additional declines in and deferrals of its investment advisory fees. Additionally, all or a portion of DCM's investment advisory fees from the CDOs that it manages may be deferred if such CDOs fail to meet their over-collateralization requirements. Pursuant to the "waterfall" structure discussed above, such failures generally require cash flows to be diverted to amortize the most senior class of notes prior to paying a portion of DCM's investment advisory fees. Defaulted assets and assets that have been severely downgraded are generally carried at a reduced value for purposes of the over-collateralization tests. In some CDOs, these assets are required to be carried at their market values for purposes of the over-collateralization tests. Due to exceptionally high levels of defaults, severe downgrades and depressed market values of the collateral underlying certain CDOs managed by DCM, some CDOs have breached their over-collateralization tests, and DCM has therefore experienced, and may continue to experience, declines in and deferrals of its investment advisory fees. DCM could lose investment advisory income from the CDOs it manages or client AUM as a result of the triggering of certain structural protections built into such CDOs. The CDOs managed by DCM generally contain structural provisions including, but not limited to, over-collateralization requirements and/or market value triggers that are meant to protect investors from deterioration in the credit quality of the underlying collateral pool. In certain cases, non-compliance with these structural provisions can lead to events of default under the indenture governing a CDO followed by the acceleration of the CDO's obligation to repay the notes issued by the CDO and, ultimately, liquidation of the underlying collateral. In the event of a liquidation of the collateral underlying a CDO, DCM will lose client AUM and therefore management fees, which could have a material and adverse effect on DCM's earnings. Four of the CDOs of asset backed securities that DCM manages have triggered events of default primarily resulting from downgrades of their underlying collateral. The notes issued by two of these CDOs have been accelerated. However, pursuant to the indentures governing these CDOs, the CDOs will not be liquidated unless either the proceeds of such liquidation will be sufficient to pay off all of the notes issued by the CDO, the accrued management fees and certain administrative expenses or the holders of a supermajority (or, in the case of one of the CDOs that has triggered an event of default but not an acceleration of notes, a majority) of the notes direct the liquidation. We could incur losses due to trading errors by DCM. DCM could make errors in placing transaction orders for client accounts, such as purchasing a security for an account whose investment guidelines prohibit the account from holding the security, purchasing an unintended amount of the security, or placing a buy order when DCM intended to place a sell order, or vice-versa. If the transaction resulted in a loss for the account, DCM might be required to reimburse the account for the loss. Such reimbursements could be substantial. It is also possible that we could be subject to intentional misconduct by our employees or others that could result in severe negative consequences. These errors and misconduct could affect trades on behalf of DFR, which could exacerbate the adverse financial impact on us. Changes in the fixed income markets could adversely affect our financial performance. Adverse changes in the fixed income markets could reduce DCM's AUM and therefore affect our financial performance. Such changes could include increased volatility in the prices of fixed income instruments, periods of illiquidity in the fixed income trading markets, changes in the taxation of fixed income instruments and significant changes in the "spreads" in the fixed income markets (the amount by which the yields on particular fixed income instruments exceed the yields on benchmark U.S. Treasury securities or other indexes). 17 Table of Contents Changes in CDO spreads and an adverse market environment could continue to make it difficult for DCM and other investment managers to launch new CDOs. The ability to launch new CDOs is dependent, in part, on the amount by which the interest earned on the collateral held by the CDO exceeds the interest payable by the CDO on the debt obligations it issues to investors, as well as other factors. If these "spreads" are not wide enough, the proposed CDO will not be attractive to investors and thus cannot be launched. There may be sustained periods when such spreads will not be sufficient for DCM to launch new CDO products, which could materially impair DCM's business. Since late-2007, there has been a dislocation in the credit market that has significantly impeded CDO origination. Although we believe market conditions have improved, this dislocation continues into 2011 and may continue for a significantly longer period of time. Prolonged dislocation of these markets could adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition. DCM depends on third-party distribution channels to market its CDOs and anticipates developing third-party distribution channels to market its investment funds. DCM's CDO management services are marketed by institutions that act as selling or placement agents for CDOs. The potential investor base for CDOs is limited, and DCM's ability to access clients is highly dependent on access to these selling and placement agents. These channels may not be accessible to DCM, which could have a material and adverse effect on DCM's ability to launch new CDOs. In addition, DCM's existing relationships with third-party distributor and access to new distributors could be adversely impacted by recent consolidation in the financial services industry, which could result in increased distribution costs, a reduction in the number of third parties selling or placing DCM's CDOs or increased competition to access third-party distribution channels. DCM's failure to comply with investment guidelines set by its clients or the provisions of the management agreement and other agreements to which it is a party could result in damage awards against DCM and a loss of AUM, either of which could cause our earnings to decline. As an investment advisor, DCM has a fiduciary duty to its clients. When clients retain DCM to manage assets on their behalf, they may specify certain guidelines regarding investment allocation and strategy that DCM is required to observe in the management of its portfolios. In addition, DCM is required to comply with the obligations set forth in the management agreements and other agreements to which it is a party. Although DCM utilizes procedures, processes and the services of experienced advisors to assist it in adhering to these guidelines and agreements, we cannot assure that such precautions will protect us from potential liabilities. DCM's failure to comply with these guidelines or the terms of these agreements could adversely affect our financial performance. Specific Risks Related to Our Principal Investing Segment We may not realize gains or income from our investments. We seek to generate both current income and capital appreciation, but our assets may not appreciate in value (and may decline), and the debt securities may default on interest or principal payments. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains or income from our investments, and the gains that we do realize may not be enough to offset our losses. Any income that we do realize may not be sufficient to offset our expenses. The lack of liquidity in our investments may impair our results. We invest in securities that are not publicly traded. Some of these securities may be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or may be less liquid than publicly traded securities for other reasons. This may make it difficult for us to liquidate such investments if the need arises. In addition, if we must liquidate all or a portion of our investments quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded the investments. We may face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a business entity if we have material non-public information regarding the issuer. 18 Table of Contents Changes in prepayment rates could reduce the value of our RMBS, which could adversely affect our financial performance. Pools of mortgage loans underlie the RMBS that we acquire. We generally receive payments on the RMBS from the payments that are made on these underlying mortgage loans. In the case of residential mortgage loans, there are seldom any restrictions on borrowers' abilities to prepay their loans. Homeowners tend to prepay mortgage loans faster when applicable mortgage interest rates decline. Consequently, owners of the loans have to reinvest the money received from the prepayments at the lower prevailing interest rates. Conversely, homeowners tend not to prepay mortgage loans when mortgage interest rates remain steady or increase. Consequently, owners of the loans are unable to reinvest money that would have otherwise been received from prepayments at the higher prevailing interest rates. When we acquire the RMBS, we anticipate that prepayments on the underlying mortgage loans will occur at a projected rate, generating an expected yield. This volatility in prepayment rates may affect our ability to maintain targeted amounts of leverage on our Agency RMBS portfolio and may adversely affect our financial performance. As announced in February 2010, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will buyout any loan that falls 120+ delinquent from the pools that carry an agency guaranty. This is a new form of prepayment in that a prepayment is the result of a loan going into default, rather than a refinance. From a bond investors standpoint, a prepayment driven from an underlying loan default appears the same way as a refinance driven payment. When a loan in a pool falls 120+ days delinquent, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will buy the loan out of the pool. A prepayment of loan proceeds is made to bond investors at par. This new complexity adds further uncertainty to the expected path of prepayments and could increase the volatility of prepayment rates the Agency RMBS portfolio experiences. We may invest in the equity and mezzanine securities of CDOs, and such investments involve various risks, including that CDO equity receives distributions from the CDO only if the CDO generates enough income to first pay the holders of its debt securities and its expenses. Our assets include equity and mezzanine securities of certain CDOs we manage, and we may buy mezzanine and equity securities of or other interests in other CDOs. A CDO is a special purpose vehicle that purchases collateral (such as loans or asset-backed securities) that is expected to generate a stream of interest or other income. The CDO issues various classes of securities that participate in that income stream, typically one or more classes of debt instruments and a class of equity securities. The equity is usually entitled to all of the income generated by the CDO after the CDO pays all of the interest due on the debt securities and its expenses. However, there will be little or no income available to the CDO equity if there are defaults on the underlying collateral in excess of certain amounts or if the recoveries on such defaulted collateral are less than certain amounts. In that event, the value of our investment in the CDO's equity could decrease substantially. In addition, the equity securities of CDOs are generally illiquid, and because they represent a leveraged investment in the CDO's assets, their value will generally fluctuate more than the values of the underlying collateral. We are required to consolidate the CIP CDOs, however, we have no right to the benefits from, nor do we bear the risk associated with, the assets held by the CIP, beyond our minimal direct investments and beneficial interests in, and management fees generated from, the CIP CDOs. Our Corporate Loan portfolio includes debt of middle market companies. Investment in middle market companies involves a number of significant risks, including: these companies may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their loans or debt securities that we hold, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of us realizing any guarantees we may have obtained in connection with our investment; they typically have shorter operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors' actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns; 19 Table of Contents they are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons, therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on our portfolio company and, in turn, on us; they generally have less predictable operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position; and the possibility that our executive officers and directors may, in the ordinary course of business, be named as defendants in litigation arising from our investments in the portfolio companies. Our investments in middle market companies consist primarily of mezzanine and senior loans or debt securities. Middle market companies usually have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, the debt instruments in which we invest. By their terms, such debt instruments may provide that the holders thereof are entitled to receive payment of interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments in respect of the debt instruments in which we invest. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a middle market company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investment in that company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution in respect of our investment. After repaying such senior creditors, the company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to us. In the case of debt ranking equally with debt instruments in which we invest, we would have to share on an equal basis any distributions with other creditors holding such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant company. In addition, we may not be in a position to control any middle market company by investing in its debt instruments. As a result, we are subject to the risk that the company in which we invest may make business decisions with which we disagree and the management of such company, as representatives of the holders of their common equity, may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not serve our interests as debt investors. Our due diligence may not reveal all of an issuer's liabilities and may not reveal other weaknesses in its business. Before investing in a company, we assess the strength and skills of its management and other factors that we believe are material to the performance of the investment. In this process, we rely on the resources available to us and, in some cases, an investigation by third parties. This process is particularly important and subjective with respect to new companies because there may be little or no information publicly available about them. Our due diligence processes might not uncover all relevant facts, thus resulting in investment losses. Our dependence on the management of our investments by other entities may adversely affect our business. We do not control the management, investment decisions or operations of the enterprises in which we have invested. Management of those enterprises may decide to change the nature of their assets, or management may otherwise change in a manner that is not satisfactory to us. We typically have no ability to affect these management decisions and we may have only limited ability to dispose of our investments. We have incurred losses on our assets and may incur additional losses in the future. Due to a variety of factors, including adverse market conditions affecting the mortgage markets, we have in the past incurred losses on our assets. Our assets, including our RMBS, may suffer additional losses in the future causing us to reduce earnings. Investors and lenders alike could lose confidence in the quality and value of our assets. We may be forced to sell substantial assets at a time when the market is depressed in order to support or enhance our liquidity. Despite our need to sell substantial assets, we may be unable to make such sales on favorable terms or at all, further materially damaging our liquidity and operations. If we are unable to maintain adequate liquidity, as a result of these losses or otherwise, it could have a material and adverse impact on our financial performance. 20 Table of Contents Increases in interest rates could reduce the value of our investments, which could result in losses or reduced earnings. We invest indirectly in mortgage loans by purchasing RMBS. Under a normal yield curve where long-term rates are higher than short-term rates, the fair value of an investment in RMBS will decline in value if long-term interest rates increase. We are not protected from declines in fair value caused by changes in interest rates, which could adversely affect our financial performance. A significant risk of our RMBS investment is that both long-term and short-term interest rates will increase significantly. If long-term rates increased significantly, the fair value of these RMBS would decline and the duration and weighted average life of the investments would increase. We could realize a loss if the securities were sold. At the same time, an increase in short-term interest rates would increase the amount of interest owed on the repurchase agreements we may enter into in order to finance the purchase of RMBS. We do not currently hedge against interest rate risk, and any interest rate hedging transactions we enter into may not completely insulate us from interest rate risk. We do not currently hedge our investment portfolio to limit our exposure to changes in interest rates. Although we may in the future enter into hedging transactions to seek to reduce interest rate risks, there is no guarantee that such hedging transactions will completely insulate us from interest rate risk. Additionally, entering into hedging transactions could potentially cause a number of adverse consequences to our business, such as limiting the opportunity for gain if the positions increase. Unanticipated changes in interest rates may result in poorer overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in any hedging. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions being hedged may vary. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not seek to establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the portfolio holdings being hedged. This may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss. Hedging instruments often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities and involve risks and costs. The cost of using hedging instruments increases as the period covered by the instrument increases and during periods of rising and volatile interest rates. We may increase our hedging activity and thus our hedging costs when interest rates are volatile or rising. Hedging instruments involve the risk that they often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities. Consequently, there may be no requirements with respect to record keeping, financial responsibility or segregation of customer funds and positions with regard to such transactions. The enforceability of agreements underlying derivative transactions may depend on compliance with various legal requirements and, depending on the identity of the counterparty, non-U.S. legal requirements. The business failure of a hedging counterparty of ours will most likely result in a default, which may result in the loss of unrealized profits and force us to cover our resale commitments at the then current market price. It may not always be possible to dispose of or close out a hedging position without the consent of the hedging counterparty, and we may not be able to enter into an offsetting contract in order to cover our risk. A liquid secondary market might not always exist for our hedging instruments, and we may have to hold a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in losses. Derivative contracts could expose us to economic losses. Our investment strategy may involve entering into derivative contracts in the future that could require us to fund cash payments in the future under certain circumstances, e.g., the early termination of the derivative agreement caused by an event of default or other early termination event, or the decision by a counterparty to request margin securities that we owe it under the derivative contract. The amount due would be the unrealized loss of the open positions with the counterparty and could also include fees and charges. In addition, these derivative contracts could require us to maintain a specified percentage of cash collateral with the counterparty to fund potential liabilities under the derivative contract. These economic losses would be reflected in our financial results, and our ability to fund these obligations will depend on the liquidity of our assets and access to capital at the time. The need to fund these obligations could hurt our financial condition. 21 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Proposed Merger The issuance of common stock in connection with the Proposed Merger will have a substantial dilutive effect on our common stock, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As of March 28, 2011, holders of our common stock other than Bounty own approximately 59.3% of our issued and outstanding common stock. If the Proposed Merger and related transactions are completed, there will be an additional 9,090,909 shares of our common stock outstanding, which will be entitled to participate in any dividends or other distributions paid on the common stock, and the common stock owned by stockholders other than CIFC Parent and Bounty (together, the "Investors" and each an "Investor") would represent approximately 33.2% of our common stock issued and outstanding as of March 7, 2011, the record date for the meeting of our stockholders convened in connection with the Proposed Merger (the "Meeting Record Date"), on a pro forma basis. Additionally, if Bounty elects to convert the entire $25 million in aggregate principal amount of our Convertible Notes on the closing date of the Proposed Merger, the common stock owned by stockholders other than CIFC Parent and Bounty would represent approximately 27.6% of our common stock issued and outstanding as of the Meeting Record Date on a pro forma basis. Alternatively, if Bounty elects to convert the entire $25 million in aggregate principal amount of the Convertible Notes on the business day immediately preceding the maturity date of such notes, and we have elected to pay the maximum permitted amount of PIK Interest from now until such date (we have not elected to pay PIK Interest to date), the common stock owned by stockholders other than CIFC Parent and Bounty would represent approximately 26.4% of our common stock issued and outstanding as of the Meeting Record Date on a pro forma basis. CIFC Parent and Bounty may each exercise significant influence over (or, if acting together, would control) us, including through their ability to each designate members of the Board. If the Proposed Merger and the related transactions are completed, the common stock owned by CIFC Parent and Bounty would represent approximately 44.5% and 22.3%, respectively, of our common stock issued and outstanding as of the Meeting Record Date on a pro forma basis. Additionally, if Bounty elects to convert the entire $25 million in aggregate principal amount of our Convertible Notes on the closing date of the Proposed Merger, the common stock owned by CIFC Parent and Bounty would represent approximately 37.0% and 35.4%, respectively, of our common stock issued and outstanding as of the Meeting Record Date on a pro forma basis. Alternatively, if Bounty elects to convert the entire $25 million in aggregate principal amount of the Convertible Notes on the business day immediately preceding the maturity date of such notes, and we have elected to pay the maximum permitted amount of PIK Interest from now until such date (we have not elected to pay PIK Interest to date), the common stock owned by CIFC Parent and Bounty would represent approximately 35.5% and 38.1%, respectively, of our common stock issued and outstanding as of the Meeting Record Date on a pro forma basis. The Investors may also have interests that differ from those of our other stockholders and may vote in a way with which they disagree and which may be adverse to their interests. Pursuant to the Amended and Restated Stockholders Agreement to be entered into among us, CIFC Parent and Bounty on the closing date of the Proposed Merger, the Investors will have certain rights with respect to the designation of our directors. In addition, the Amended and Restated Stockholders Agreement provides that, for a period of three years, each of the Investors has consent rights with respect to certain material transactions. Other than requirements to support the nomination, election and removal of directors in accordance with the Amended and Restated Stockholders Agreement and to support maintaining our status as a "controlled company" under applicable NASDAQ rules, there are no restrictions on CIFC Parent's or Bounty's ability to vote the common stock owned by them. In accordance with the Amended and Restated Stockholders Agreement, the Investors will form a "group" for purposes of holding their shares of common stock and vote their shares as a group in respect of the election and removal of directors and maintenance of our status as a "controlled company" under applicable NASDAQ rules. As a result, CIFC Parent and Bounty, acting alone, may have the ability to significantly influence (or, if acting together, would control) the outcome of any matter submitted for the vote of our stockholders, including the amendment of our organizational documents, acquisitions or other business combinations involving us and potentially the ability to prevent extraordinary transactions such as a takeover attempt. 22 Table of Contents The concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of us, may deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our business and may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In connection with the Proposed Merger, we intend to elect to become a "controlled company" within the meaning of NASDAQ rules and, as a result, will qualify for, and intend to rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements intended to protect public stockholders' interests. Upon the consummation of the Proposed Merger and related transactions, CIFC Parent and Bounty will together control a majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. As a result, we intend to elect to become a "controlled company" within the meaning of the corporate governance standards of the NASDAQ rules. Under these rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, group or another company is a "controlled company" and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including: the requirement that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors; the requirement that we have independent director oversight of executive officer compensation, which is currently complied with through our compensation committee consisting entirely of independent directors; and the requirement that we have independent director oversight of director nominations, which is currently complied with through our nominating and corporate governance committee consisting entirely of independent directors. Following the consummation of the Proposed Merger and related transactions, we have agreed pursuant to the Amended and Restated Stockholders Agreement to utilize these exemptions. As a result, our Board will not have a majority of independent directors, and its nominating and corporate governance committee and compensation committee will not consist entirely of independent directors. Accordingly, our stockholders will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements under the NASDAQ rules. The market price of the common stock may decline as a result of the issuance of common stock in connection with the Proposed Merger. We are unable to predict the potential effects of our issuance of common stock in connection with the Proposed Merger on the trading activity and market price of our common stock. We have granted registration rights to CIFC Parent and Bounty for the resale of certain shares received by them in the Proposed Merger and the shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes (the "Conversion Shares"). These registration rights would facilitate the resale of such securities into the public market, and any such resale would increase the number of shares of our common stock available for public trading. Sales by CIFC Parent or Bounty of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales might occur, could have a material adverse effect on the market price of the common stock. If the Proposed Merger is not completed, the price of our common stock could decline, and its future business and operations could be harmed. Our and CIFC's obligations to complete the Proposed Merger are subject to conditions, many of which are beyond the control of the parties. If the Proposed Merger is not completed for any reason, we may be subject to a number of material risks, including the following: we may be required under certain circumstances to pay CIFC a termination fee of $3 million, plus any reasonable and documented out-of-pocket legal fees and expenses incurred by CIFC to enforce payment of such termination fee; the price of our common stock may decline; we may be subject to litigation related to the failure to complete the Proposed Merger, which could require substantial time and resources to resolve; 23 Table of Contents costs related to the Proposed Merger, such as financial advisory, legal, accounting, proxy solicitation and printing fees, are required to be paid even if the Proposed Merger and related transactions are not completed; matters relating to the Proposed Merger and related transactions (including the negotiation of terms and integration planning) required a substantial commitment of time and resources by our management, which could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that may have been beneficial to us; and we may be unable to find a partner willing to engage in similar transactions on terms as favorable as those set forth in the Merger Agreement, or at all. We may not be able to realize all of the benefits of the Proposed Merger. CIFC derives its revenues primarily from collateral management agreements with the CLOs currently managed by CIFC, which includes each of CIFC Funding 2006-I, Ltd., CIFC Funding 2006-IB, Ltd., CIFC Funding 2006-II, Ltd., CIFC Funding 2007-I, Ltd., CIFC Funding 2007-II, Ltd., CIFC Funding 2007-III, Ltd. and CIFC Funding 2007-IV, Ltd. (the "CIFC CLOs"), and the CLOs (the "CT CLOs") managed by CypressTree Investment Management, LLC, a subsidiary of CIFC ("Cypress Tree"). Under the collateral management agreements, payment of CIFC's management fees is generally subject to a "waterfall" structure providing that a significant portion of CIFC's fees may be deferred if, among other things, the CIFC CLOs or CT CLOs do not generate sufficient cash flows to pay the required interest on the notes they have issued to investors and certain expenses they have incurred. This could occur if the issuers of the collateral underlying the CIFC CLOs or CT CLOs default on or defer payments of principal or interest relating to the collateral. If defaults and delinquencies on the assets underlying the CIFC CLOs or CT CLOs occur, CIFC could experience declines in and deferrals of its management fees. In addition, a significant portion of CIFC's management fees from the CIFC CLOs and CT CLOs may be deferred if the CIFC CLOs or CT CLOs, as applicable, fail to meet their over-collateralization requirements. Pursuant to the "waterfall" structure discussed above, such failures generally require cash flows to be diverted to amortize the most senior class of notes prior to paying a portion of CIFC's management fees. Defaulted assets, which in some CLOs may include severely-downgraded assets, are generally carried at a reduced value for purposes of the over-collateralization tests. In some CLOs, defaulted assets are required to be carried at the lower of their expected recovery rates and their market values for purposes of the over-collateralization tests. In the event of defaults, severe downgrades and depressed market values of the collateral underlying the CIFC CLOs or CT CLOs, such CLOs could breach their over-collateralization tests, which would result in declines in and deferrals of CIFC's management fees. The CIFC CLOs and CT CLOs contain typical structural provisions including, but not limited to, over-collateralization requirements that are meant to protect investors from deterioration in the credit quality of the underlying collateral pool. In certain cases, breaches of these structural provisions can lead to events of default under the indentures governing the CIFC CLOs or CT CLOs and, ultimately, acceleration of the notes issued by such CLO and liquidation of the underlying collateral. In the event of a liquidation of the collateral underlying a CIFC CLO or CT CLO, CIFC will lose client AUM and therefore management fees, which could have a material and adverse effect on CIFC's earnings. CIFC's collateral management agreements allow investors that hold a specified amount of securities issued by the CIFC CLO to remove CIFC as manager for "cause," which typically includes CIFC's violation of the management agreement or the CIFC CLO's indenture, CIFC's bankruptcy or insolvency, fraud or a criminal offense by CIFC or its employees, and, under one CIFC CLO, the failure of certain of the CIFC CLO's performance tests. These "cause" provisions may be triggered from time to time with respect to the CIFC CLOs and as a result CIFC could be removed as the investment manager of a CIFC CLO. In the case of certain CIFC CLOs, CIFC can also be removed as the investment manager upon its loss of specified key employees. As a result of the failure of certain CypressTree individuals to remain employed at CypressTree following its acquisition by CIFC, CypressTree has received notice that it is being removed as manager of one of the CT CLOs (such removal to be effective upon appointment of a suitable replacement manager). With respect to the 24 Table of Contents other CT CLOs, unlike investors in the CIFC CLOs, certain investors therein have the right to remove CypressTree as manager at any time without cause. The CIFC CLO management agreements are subject to minimum ownership requirements, which if not met, could result in CIFC's removal as the CLO manager. The CIFC CLO management agreements require that CIFC, or an affiliate of CIFC or certain employees of CIFC, at all times maintain a minimum ownership of securities issued by the related CLO issuers. A breach of the foregoing minimum ownership requirement may allow a CLO issuer to remove CIFC or its successor as the manager of the corresponding CIFC CLO. Currently, CIFC Parent, as an affiliate of CIFC, owns such securities thereby satisfying the minimum ownership requirement. The CIFC CLO issued securities owned by CIFC Parent will not be transferred to us as part of the Proposed Merger and related transactions. As a result, in order to comply with the foregoing requirements under a CIFC CLO management agreement following consummation of the Proposed Merger, for so long as the minimum ownership requirements in the CIFC CLO management agreements remain in effect, CIFC Parent has agreed not to transfer any securities of the related CIFC CLO issuers that it owns to any person other than us or one of our subsidiaries, and has agreed to, among other things, use commercially reasonable efforts to remain our affiliate. Despite this covenant, such minimum ownership and affiliate requirements may fail to be satisfied in the future, which may result in the removal of CIFC or New CIFC as manager under the applicable CLO management agreements. The failure to successfully integrate CIFC's business and operations could adversely affect us. The combined company's ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the Proposed Merger will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to integrate the businesses of CIFC with our business. The combination of two independent companies is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. As a result, the combined company will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the business practices and operations of us and CIFC. The integration process may disrupt the business of either or both of the companies and, if implemented ineffectively, would preclude realization of the full benefits expected by us and CIFC. The failure of the combined company to meet the challenges involved in integrating successfully the operations of us and CIFC or otherwise to realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction could cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, the activities of the combined company and could seriously harm its results of operations. In addition, the overall integration of the two companies may result in unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of customer and supplier relationships and diversion of management's attention and may cause the combined company's stock price to decline. The difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among others: consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures and eliminating duplicative operations; maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees; the diversion of management's attention from ongoing business concerns; coordinating geographically separate organizations; unanticipated issues in integrating information technology and other systems; managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating the operations of the combined company; and making any necessary modifications to operating control standards to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. We may be unable to realize anticipated cost synergies or may incur additional costs. We have identified certain cost synergies in connection with the Proposed Merger and related transactions, including the elimination of redundant corporate costs, reductions of general and administrative expenses and other savings. While management believes that these cost synergies are achievable, we may be unable to realize all of these cost synergies within the timeframe expected or at all. In addition, we may incur additional and/or unexpected costs in order to realize these cost synergies. 25 Table of Contents We will incur significant transaction costs in connection with the Proposed Merger. We expect to incur a number of non-recurring costs associated with combining the operations of two companies. The substantial majority of non-recurring expenses resulting from the Proposed Merger and related transactions will be comprised of transaction costs, operations, facilities and systems transfer costs, and costs related to formulating and implementing integration plans. Additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the two companies' businesses. Although we expect that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, should allow us to offset incremental transaction and transaction-related costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. We must continue to retain, motivate and recruit executives, experts and other key employees, which may be difficult in light of uncertainty regarding the Proposed Merger, and failure to do so could negatively affect the combined company. For the Proposed Merger and related transactions to be successful, we must continue to retain, motivate and recruit executives, experts and other key employees. Experienced experts and executives are in high demand, and competition for their talents can be intense. Our employees may experience uncertainty about their future role with us until, or even after, strategies with regard to the combined companies are announced or executed. These potential distractions may adversely affect our ability to keep executives, experts and other key employees focused on applicable strategies and goals. Our failure to retain and motivate executives, experts and other key employees during the period prior to or after the completion of the Proposed Merger and related transactions could have a material and adverse impact on our business. Any delays in the consummation of the Proposed Merger will reduce the value of the Proposed Merger to Deerfield. We expect to realize certain benefits from the Proposed Merger, the value of which will be reduced if the closing date of the Proposed Merger is delayed. For example, the value of a CLO management agreement, a contract with a finite life, generally diminishes over time as management fees under it are paid out. All CLO management fee income that is earned and paid to CIFC prior to the closing date of the Proposed Merger will be either distributed to CIFC Parent prior to the closing date or, if held within CIFC at closing, added to the cash portion of the merger consideration through a post-closing purchase price adjustment pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement. As another example, prior to the consummation of the Proposed Merger, CIFC is expected to generate taxable income for U.S. federal income tax purposes during the taxable year beginning January 1, 2011. CIFC's federal NOL carryforwards will be reduced by any such taxable income. Any delay in the consummation of the Proposed Merger will cause a greater reduction in the amount of such NOL carryforwards available to us following the Proposed Merger. The consideration for the Proposed Merger will not be adjusted despite such reduction in NOL carryforwards nor will we be indemnified for such reductions. The timing of the closing is subject to a number of conditions, many of which are outside of our control. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 