ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be impacted by a number of factors. The following sets forth the most significant factors that make an investment in our company speculative or risky. In addition to the following risk factors, please also refer to the section entitled "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements." Risks Related to Our Business We operate in highly competitive markets, and we may not be able to grow our assets under management. The alternative asset management industry is very competitive and subject to rapid change. Many firms offer similar and additional asset management products and services to the same types of clients that we target. We currently focus almost exclusively on SSCLs and related financial instruments, which is in contrast to numerous other asset managers with comparable AUM, which have significant background and experience in both the equity and debt markets. In addition, many of our competitors have or may in the future develop greater financial and other resources, more extensive distribution capabilities, more effective marketing strategies, more attractive investment vehicle structures and broader name recognition. Additionally, if other asset managers offer services and products at more competitive prices than us, we may not be able to maintain our current fee structure. Investment strategies and products, including CLOs, that had historically been attractive to investors may lose their appeal for various reasons. In such case, we would have to develop new strategies and products in order to remain competitive. It could be both expensive and difficult for us to develop new strategies and products, and we may not be successful in this regard. These competitive pressures could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Currently, the substantial majority of our investment products are CLOs that cannot be redeemed or terminated by investors unless certain conditions are met or they are not yet redeemable or terminable by investors at all. However, with the passage of time or upon the satisfaction of such conditions, these investment products will be redeemed, and we will no longer receive investment advisory fees related to these products. In addition, the prepayment of the assets contained in the CLOs we manage and our inability to reinvest the proceeds of such prepayments in accordance with the investment guidelines of the CLOs will reduce the asset base on which our fees are paid and thus the amount of our investment advisory fees. If we are unable to launch new products and grow assets under management to sufficiently replace lost assets under management, our revenues will decline. A reduction in the amount or value of assets in the investment products we manage could significantly reduce our investment advisory fees and incentive fees and adversely affect our financial performance. Our success depends on our ability to earn investment advisory fees from the investment products we manage for third party investors. Such fees generally consist of payments based on the amount of assets in the investment product (management fees) and in certain cases, on the returns generated for certain investors in the investment product (incentive fees). If there is a reduction in a product's assets, there will be a corresponding reduction in our investment advisory fees from the account and a likely reduction in our incentive fees, if any, relating to the product, since the smaller the product's asset base, the smaller the potential profits earned by the product. There could be a reduction in a product's assets as the result of the prepayment of the assets in the product if we are unable to reinvest the proceeds or forced liquidation of the assets in the product due to poor investment performance, including downgrades of ratings assigned to the portfolios the Advisers manage, which could lead to: •the withdrawal by existing clients of funds or redemption by existing clients of existing products in favor of better performing products; •the deferral or non-receipt of the Advisers' subordinate management fees for a CLO; •impairment of the Advisers' ability to attract funds from existing and new clients might diminish; and •minimal or no incentive fees received by the Advisers. 11 Table of Contents As a result, a reduction in the value of assets in the investment products we manage and investment advisory fees, and the failure of the Advisers' investment products to perform well both on an absolute basis and in relation to competing products, may adversely affect our business and financial performance. We have incurred losses on our assets and may incur additional losses in the future. Due to a variety of factors, including adverse market conditions affecting the mortgage markets, we have in the past incurred losses on our assets. Our assets may suffer additional losses in the future causing us to reduce earnings. Investors and lenders alike could lose confidence in the quality and value of our assets. We may be forced to sell substantial assets or we may be unable to make such sales on favorable terms or at all, materially damaging our liquidity and operations. If we are unable to maintain adequate liquidity, as a result of these losses or otherwise, our financial performance may be materially and adversely impacted. We compete for investment opportunities with larger institutions. We compete for investments with various other investors, such as other public and private funds, commercial and investment banks and commercial finance and other companies. Many of our competitors are substantially larger than us, have considerably more financial and other resources and may have investment objectives that overlap with ours, which may create competition for investment opportunities with limited supply. Some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us, and may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. The competitive pressures we face could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our existing recourse indebtedness and the inability to access capital markets could restrict our business activities or adversely affect our financial performance. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $137.5 million of outstanding recourse indebtedness, including long-term indebtedness in the form of $120.0 million of Junior Subordinated Notes and $17.5 million of Convertible Notes. $25.0 million of our Junior Subordinated Notes currently bear interest at a variable interest rate and the remainder will begin to bear interest at a variable interest rate after April 30, 2015, which may subject us to interest rate risk and increase our debt service obligations if such interest rate increases. In addition, the debt instruments governing our indebtedness contain covenants that may restrict our business activities, and our failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under our indebtedness. Furthermore, we are permitted by the terms of our Junior Subordinated Notes and our other debt instruments to incur additional indebtedness, however the proceeds of such indebtedness are subject to the limits on restricted payments of the Junior Subordinated Notes. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, to refinance our debt obligations or to access capital markets or otherwise obtain additional financing on commercially reasonable terms could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Additionally, our return on investments and available cash flow may be reduced to the extent that changes in market conditions increase the cost of our financing relative to the income that can be derived from the assets acquired. Our business could be impaired if we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel. We depend on the diligence, experience, skill and network of business contacts of our executive officers and employees for the evaluation, negotiation, structuring and monitoring of our investments and the operation of our business. Additionally, certain of our investment management contracts may be tied to the retention of certain key employees. The management of our investment products is undertaken by our Investment Management and Fund and Product Management teams, consisting of various investment management and fund management personnel, most of who are not bound by employment agreements. The loss of a particular member or members of such teams could cause investors in the product to withdraw all or a portion of their investment in the product, and adversely affect the marketing of the product to new investors and the product's performance. In the case of certain CLOs, we can be removed as investment adviser upon its loss of specified key employees. In addition to the loss of specific investment management and fund and product management team members, the loss of one or more members of our senior management involved in supervising the teams and operating our business could have similar adverse effects on our investment products or our business. 12 Table of Contents Accordingly, the inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could affect our ability to provide an acceptable level of service to our clients and take advantage of new opportunities, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. We may leverage our assets and a decline in the fair value of such assets may adversely affect our financial performance. We may leverage our assets through borrowings, generally through warehouse facilities, secured loans, derivative instruments such as total return swaps, securitizations (including the issuance of CLOs) and other borrowings. A rapid decline in the fair value of our leveraged assets, such as the declines we experienced in the fourth quarter of 2007 and the first quarter of 2008, may adversely affect us. Lenders may require us to post additional collateral to support the borrowing. If we cannot post the additional collateral, we may have to rapidly liquidate assets, which we may be unable to do on favorable terms or at all. Even after liquidating assets, we may still be unable to post the required collateral, further harming our liquidity and subjecting us to liability to our lenders for the declines in the fair values of the collateral. A reduction in credit availability may reduce our earnings, liquidity and available cash. We expect to enter into warehouse agreements in connection with our potential investment in and management of CLOs, which may expose us to substantial risks. In connection with our potential investment in and management of new CLOs, we expect to enter into warehouse agreements with warehouse providers such as investment banks or other financial institutions, pursuant to which the warehouse provider will initially finance the purchase of the collateral that will be ultimately transferred to the CLO. We will typically select the collateral in the warehouse. If the CLO transaction is not consummated, the warehouse collateral may be liquidated, and we may be required to pay any amount by which the purchase price of the collateral exceeds its sale price and may be liable for certain of the expenses associated with the warehouse or planned CLO, subject to any negotiated caps on our exposure. In addition, regardless of whether the CLO transaction is consummated, if any of the warehoused collateral is sold before the consummation, we may have to bear any resulting loss on the sale. The amount at risk in connection with the warehouse agreements supporting our investments in CLOs will vary and may not be limited to the amount that we have agreed to invest in the equity securities of the CLO. Although we would expect to complete the CLO transaction within six to nine months after the warehouse agreement is signed, we may not be able to complete the transaction within the expected time period or at all. Our business and financial performance may be adversely affected by market, economic and other industry conditions. Our business and financial performance may be adversely affected by market, economic and other industry conditions, such as the economic slowdown and recessions that were experienced in the United States in 2008, which could lead to losses on our investments or in the assets held in the products we manage and a decrease in revenues, net income and assets. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in lenders not extending credit to us, all of which could impair our operating results. While our business environment and that of many of the entities in which we invest was extremely challenging in 2008 and 2009, we saw improvements in our business as the markets stabilized in 2010 and 2011. There is no assurance that these conditions will continue to improve in the near term or at all. If the economic slowdown and adverse business conditions resume or get worse, we expect our results of operations to be adversely affected. Our quarterly results could fluctuate and may not be indicative of our future quarterly performance. Our quarterly operating results could fluctuate; therefore investors should not rely on past quarterly results to be indicative of our performance in future quarters. Factors that could cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate include, among other things, variations in quarterly fair value determinations of our assets and liabilities, impairments on our intangible assets (including goodwill), changes in interest rates affecting our interest income and interest expense, distributions from our investments in CLOs and our provision for income tax. 13 Table of Contents Because the values we record for certain investments and liabilities are based on estimates of fair value made by management, we are exposed to substantial risks. Some of our investments and liabilities are not publicly traded. The fair value of such investments and liabilities are not readily determinable. Depending on the accounting classification, these investments can be carried at fair value, lower of cost or market, or amortized cost with a loan loss reserve. Each of these carrying values is based on an estimate of fair value. Management reports estimated fair value of these investments quarterly, which may cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate. Therefore, our past quarterly results may not be indicative of our performance in future quarters. In addition, because such valuations are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these securities existed and we may be unable to realize the carrying value upon a sale of these assets. We may in the future issue shares of additional capital stock to raise proceeds for a wide variety of purposes, which could dilute and therefore reduce the value of our existing outstanding capital stock. We may seek to issue shares of our capital stock, either in public offerings, private transactions or both, to raise additional capital or enter into strategic transactions. Such issuances could substantially dilute the stock of our existing stockholders without a corresponding increase in value. We may raise capital for a wide variety of purposes, such as implementing our business plan and repaying indebtedness. Our management will have broad discretion over how we use the proceeds of any capital raise. We may not be able to raise capital at the time or times that we wish, in the amounts we wish, or on the terms or at the prices we consider favorable to us and our stockholders. We may use the proceeds of any future offering in ways in which holders of our capital stock disagree and that yield less than our expected return, or no return at all, which could result in substantial losses to us. Loss of our 1940 Act exemption could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated and could have a material adverse effect on our business and the price of our shares. We rely primarily on section 3(a)(1)(C) for our exclusion from the registration requirements of the 1940 Act. This provision requires that we neither engage nor propose to engage in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities nor own or propose to acquire "investment securities" having a value exceeding 40% of the value of our total assets on an unconsolidated basis, or the 40% Test. "Investment securities" excludes U.S. government securities and securities of majority-owned subsidiaries that are not themselves investment companies and are not relying on the exception from the definition of investment company under section 3(c)(1) or section 3(c)(7) of the 1940 Act. If we fail to meet our current exemption and another exemption is not available, we may be required to register as an investment company. If we were to be deemed an investment company, restrictions imposed by the 1940 Act, including limitations on our capital structure and our ability to transact with affiliates, could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated and would have a material adverse effect on our business. The accounting rules applicable to certain of our transactions are highly complex and require the application of significant judgment and assumptions by our management. In addition, changes in accounting interpretations or assumptions could impact our financial statements. Accounting rules for consolidations, income taxes, business acquisitions, transfers of financial assets, securitization transactions and other aspects of our operations are highly complex and require the application of judgment and assumptions by management. The consolidation of VIEs is subject to periodic reassessment which could lead to the deconsolidation of previously consolidated entities or the consolidation of entities that were previously not required to be consolidated. Deferred tax assets are subject to the establishment of a valuation allowance in the event management concludes that the tax benefits of certain timing differences may not be realized. Business acquisitions require the valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Assets acquired include intangible assets, including goodwill, that will be subject to periodic testing and evaluation for impairment. These complexities could lead to a delay in the preparation of our financial information. In addition, changes in accounting rules, interpretations or assumptions could materially impact the presentation, disclosure and usability of our financial statements. 14 Table of Contents Failure to develop effective business continuity plans could disrupt our operations and cause financial losses. We operate in an industry that is highly dependent on information systems and technology. We depend to a substantial degree on the availability of our office facilities and the proper functioning of our computer and telecommunications systems. Although we have established a significant disaster recovery program, including pursuant to which data is backed up at secured off-site locations and is accessible remotely, a disaster, such as water damage to our office, an explosion or a prolonged loss of electrical power, could materially interrupt our business operations and cause material financial loss, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability, which, in turn, could depress our stock price. Additionally, we cannot assure holders of our stock that the cost of maintaining those services and technology will not materially increase from its current level. Such an increase in costs related to these information systems could have a material and adverse effect on us. CIFC Parent Holdings LLC and DFR Holdings, LLC exercise significant influence over us, including through the ability of each to elect three members of our Board of Directors. Our common stock owned by (i) CIFC Parent, an entity in which Charlesbank Capital Partners holds a majority interest, represented approximately 44.88% of the outstanding shares of our common stock as of December 31, 2011 and (ii) DFR Holdings, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Columbus Nova Private Equity Partners, represented approximately 22.44% of the outstanding shares of our common stock as of December 31, 2011, in each case excluding the shares of common stock issuable upon conversion or exercise of the Convertible Notes, restricted stock units, stock options or warrants. Assuming DFR Holdings elects to convert the entire principal amount of the Convertible Notes on the business day immediately preceding the maturity date of such notes, and we have not elected to pay PIK Interest, the common stock owned by (i) CIFC Parent will represent approximately 37.28% of the outstanding shares of our common stock as of December 31, 2011 and (ii) DFR Holdings will represent approximately 35.58% of the outstanding shares of our common stock as of December 31, 2011, in each case excluding the exercise of restricted stock units, stock options or warrants. There are no restrictions on CIFC Parent's or DFR Holdings's ability to vote the shares of our common stock owned by it. In addition, the Amended and Restated Stockholders Agreement provides that CIFC Parent and DFR Holdings together may block the election of any director nominated by the nominating committee of our Board of Directors (the "Board"). The Amended and Restated Stockholders Agreement provides that CIFC Parent and DFR Holdings each has the right to designate three directors to the Board. As a result, the directors elected to the Board by CIFC Parent and DFR Holdings may exercise significant influence on matters considered by the Board. Each of CIFC Parent and DFR Holdings may have interests that diverge from, or even conflict with, our interests and those of our other stockholders. Other than requirements to support the nomination, election and removal of directors in accordance with the Amended and Restated Stockholders Agreement and to support maintaining our status as a "controlled company" under applicable NASDAQ rules, there are no restrictions on CIFC Parent's or DFR Holdings's ability to vote the common stock owned by them. In accordance with the Amended and Restated Stockholders Agreement, CIFC Parent and DFR Holdings will form a "group" for purposes of holding their shares of common stock and vote their shares as a group in respect of the election and removal of directors and maintenance of our status as a "controlled company" under applicable NASDAQ rules. As a result, CIFC Parent and DFR Holdings, acting alone, may have the ability to significantly influence (or, if acting together, would control) the outcome of any matter submitted for the vote of our stockholders, including the amendment of our organizational documents, acquisitions or other business combinations involving us and potentially the ability to prevent extraordinary transactions such as a takeover attempt. The concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of us, may deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our business and may have a material adverse affect on the market price of our common stock. 15 Table of Contents We have goodwill and other intangible assets that may become impaired and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. At December 31, 2011, we had $67.9 million of goodwill and $55.6 million of intangible assets. Goodwill and other intangible assets are tested for impairment on an annual basis, or when facts and circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. If these tests indicate that an asset has been impaired, we will recognize a charge to results of operations, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to substantial risk from litigation and potential securities laws liability and may face significant damage to our professional reputation as a result of such allegations and negative publicity associated therewith. Many aspects of our business involve substantial risks of litigation and/or arbitration, and from time to time, we are involved in various legal proceedings in the course of operating our business. We may be exposed to liability under federal and state securities laws, other federal and state laws and court decisions, as well as rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC and other regulatory bodies. An adverse resolution of any lawsuit, legal or regulatory proceeding or claim against us could result in substantial costs or reputational harm to us, and have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. In addition to these financial costs and risks, the defense of litigation or arbitration may divert resources and management's attention from operations. Asset managers such as the Advisers also are particularly vulnerable to losing clients because of adverse publicity. Accordingly, allegations or an adverse resolution of any lawsuit, legal or regulatory proceeding or claim against us, could materially harm our financial performance. Extensive regulation of our businesses affects our activities and creates the potential for significant liabilities and penalties. The possibility of increased regulatory focus could result in additional burdens on our business. Legislative or regulatory changes could adversely affect us. The Advisers are heavily regulated as investment advisers, primarily at the federal level. Many of these regulators, including the SEC, as well as state securities commissions, are empowered to conduct examinations, investigations and administrative proceedings that can result in fines, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including censure, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or the suspension or expulsion of a broker-dealer or investment adviser from registration or memberships. Even if an investigation or proceeding did not result in a sanction or the sanction imposed against us or our personnel by a regulator were small in monetary amount, the adverse publicity relating to the investigation, proceeding or imposition of these sanctions could harm our reputation and cause us to lose existing clients or fail to gain new asset management or financial advisory clients. Non-compliance with applicable laws or regulations could result in sanctions being levied against us, including fines and censures, suspension or expulsion from a certain jurisdiction or market, or the revocation of licenses. Non-compliance with applicable laws or regulations could also adversely affect our reputation, prospects, revenues and earnings. In addition, changes in current legal, regulatory, accounting, tax or compliance requirements or in governmental policies could adversely affect our operations, revenues and earnings by, among other things, increasing expenses and reducing investor interest in certain products we offer. Additionally, our profitability could be affected by rules and regulations that impact the business and financial communities generally, including changes to the laws governing state and federal taxation. In July 2010, the U.S. Congress enacted the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act"), in part to impose significant investment restrictions and capital requirements on banking entities and other organizations that are significant to U.S. financial markets. For instance, the Dodd-Frank Act imposes significant restrictions on the proprietary trading activities of certain banking entities and subjects other systemically significant organizations regulated by the U.S. Federal Reserve to increased capital requirements and quantitative limits for engaging in such activities. The Dodd-Frank Act also seeks to reform the asset-backed securitization market (including the RMBS and CLO markets) by requiring the retention of a portion of the credit risk inherent in the pool of securitized assets and by imposing additional registration and disclosure requirements. While the full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act cannot be assessed until implementing regulations are released and fully implemented, the Dodd-Frank Act's extensive requirements 16 Table of Contents may have a significant effect on the financial markets, and may affect our ability to launch new CLOs, which may have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, we regularly rely on exemptions from various requirements of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the Exchange Act, the 1940 Act, and the U.S. Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, in conducting our asset management activities. These exemptions are sometimes highly complex and may in certain circumstances depend on compliance by third parties whom we do not control. If for any reason these exemptions were to become unavailable to us, we could become subject to regulatory action or third party claims and our business could be materially and adversely affected. See "—Loss of our 1940 Act exemption could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated and could have a material adverse effect on our business and the price of our shares." Lastly, the requirements imposed by our regulators are designed primarily to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect investors in our investment products and are not designed to protect our common stockholders. Consequently, these regulations often serve to limit our activities and impose burdensome compliance requirements. We do not know the impact on our business of the actions by U.S. and foreign governments, central banks and other governmental and regulatory bodies attempting to stabilize and strengthen the financial market or their increased focus on the regulation of our industry. In recent years, U.S. and foreign governments, central banks and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken a number of steps to attempt to stabilize and strengthen the U.S. and global financial markets and economies. In particular, in the U.S., these efforts have included direct government investments in, and guarantees of, troubled financial institutions as well as government-sponsored programs such as the Troubled Asset Relief Program in 2008 and the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act imposes new regulations and significant investment restrictions and capital requirements on banking entities and other organizations that are significant to the U.S. financial markets and could increase our costs of operating as a public company. Furthermore, many key aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act will be established by various regulatory bodies and other groups over the next several years. We are not able to predict the impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition of these efforts by U.S. and foreign governments, central banks or other governmental and regulatory bodies or the impact of future regulation of our industry. Changes in the fixed income markets could adversely affect our financial performance. Adverse changes in the fixed income markets could reduce the Advisers' AUM and therefore affect our financial performance. Such changes could include increased volatility in the prices of fixed income instruments, periods of illiquidity in the fixed income trading markets, changes in the taxation of fixed income instruments and significant changes in the "spreads" in the fixed income markets (the amount by which the yields on particular fixed income instruments exceed the yields on benchmark U.S. Treasury securities or other indexes). Changes in CLO spreads and an adverse market environment could continue to make it difficult for the Advisers and other investment managers to launch new CLOs. The ability to launch new CLOs is dependent, in part, on the amount by which the interest earned on the collateral held by the CLO exceeds the interest payable by the CLO on the debt obligations it issues to investors, as well as other factors. If these "spreads" are not wide enough, the proposed CLO will not be attractive to investors and thus cannot be launched. There may be sustained periods when such spreads will not be sufficient for the Advisers to launch new CLO products, which could materially impair the Advisers' business. Since late-2007, there has been a dislocation in the credit market that has significantly impeded CLO origination. Although we believe market conditions have improved, this dislocation continues into 2012 and may continue for a significantly longer period of time. Prolonged dislocation of these markets could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. 17 Table of Contents Foreign corporate entities in which we have invested could be subject to federal income tax at the entity level, which would greatly reduce the amounts those entities would have available to distribute to us. From time to time, we invest in investment products managed by the Advisers. Those investments typically are in the form of interests in foreign corporate entities. There is a specific exemption from federal income tax for non-U.S. corporations that restrict their activities in the United States to trading stock and securities (or any activity closely related thereto) for their own account whether such trading (or such other activity) is conducted by the corporation or its employees through a resident broker, commission agent, custodian or other agent. We intend that our foreign corporate investments will rely on that exemption or otherwise operate in a manner so that they will not be subject to federal income tax on their net income at the entity level. If the IRS successfully challenged the qualification of our foreign corporate investment for the exemption from federal income tax described above, that could greatly reduce the amount that our foreign corporate entities would have available to pay to their creditors and to distribute to us. Our results of operations may be negatively affected by our future tax liabilities. As a result of the stock issuances to CIFC Parent and to DFR Holdings in connection with the Merger and CNCIM Acquisition, respectively, we experienced an ownership change under Section 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which will severely limit our ability to use our existing net operating losses ("NOLs") and net capital losses ("NCLs") to offset our taxable income and capital gains. Accordingly, to the extent we have taxable income, we anticipate that we will incur federal corporate income tax liabilities, which may have a significant impact on our results of operations. The Advisers' incentive fees may increase the volatility of our cash flows, which could adversely affect our financial performance. Historically, a portion of the Advisers' revenues have been derived from incentive fees on the various investment products that they manage. Incentive fees are generally based on the returns generated for certain investors in the investment product. With respect to the Advisers' CLOs, the Advisers are entitled to incentive fees only if the returns on the related portfolios exceed agreed-upon return targets. Incentive fees, if any, may vary from period to period in relation to volatility in investment returns, causing the Advisers' cash flows to be more volatile than if it did not manage assets on an incentive fee basis. Adverse credit and capital markets conditions could significantly increase the volatility of the investment products managed by the Advisers and decrease the likelihood that they will earn incentive fees. Also, alternative asset managers typically derive a greater portion of their revenues from incentive fees than traditional asset managers, thus increasing the potential volatility in the Advisers' cash flows. The volatility in the Advisers' cash flows and decreases in incentive fees could harm our financial performance. The Advisers derive much of their revenues from investment management agreements that may be terminated on short notice and without cause. Each Adviser derives a substantial portion of its revenues from investment management agreements with products that generally have the right to remove such Adviser as the investment adviser of the product and replace it with a substitute investment adviser under certain specified conditions. Some of these investment management agreements may be terminated with or without cause. With respect to the Advisers' agreements with some of the CLOs they manage, an Adviser can be removed without cause by investors that hold a specified amount of the securities issued by the CLO. Additionally, all of the Advisers' agreements with CLOs allow investors that hold a specified amount of securities issued by the CLO to remove the Adviser for "cause," which typically includes an Adviser's violation of the management agreement or the indenture of the CLO, an Adviser's breach of its representations and warranties under the agreement, an Adviser's bankruptcy or insolvency, fraud or a criminal offense by an Adviser or its employees, and the failure of certain of the CLOs' performance tests. These "cause" provisions may be triggered from time to time with respect to our CLOs, and as a result, investors could elect to remove the relevant Adviser as the investment manager of such CLOs. In addition, unlike investors in the CIFCAM, DCM and CNCIM CLOs, certain investors in the CypressTree CLOs have the right to remove CypressTree as manager at any time without cause. The termination of an Adviser's investment management agreements could adversely affect our financial performance. 18 Table of Contents We may be unable to maintain adequate liquidity to support our ongoing operations and planned growth. As of December 31, 2011, we had unrestricted cash and cash equivalents of $36.0 million. In addition, cash generated from operations and outstanding indebtedness may not provide sufficient liquidity to fund our operations and pay general corporate expenses. Declines in the fair value of our assets may additionally adversely affect our liquidity. If we are unable to maintain adequate liquidity, we may be unable to support our ongoing operations and planned growth, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. The CIFCAM CLO management agreements are subject to minimum ownership requirements, which if not met, could result in CIFCAM's removal as the CLO manager. The CIFCAM CLO management agreements require that CIFCAM, or an affiliate of CIFCAM or certain employees of CIFCAM, at all times maintain a minimum ownership of securities issued by the related CLO issuers. A breach of the foregoing minimum ownership requirement may allow a CLO issuer to remove CIFCAM or its successor as the manager of the corresponding CIFCAM CLO. Currently, CIFC Parent, as an affiliate of CIFCAM, owns such securities thereby satisfying the minimum ownership requirement. As a result, in order to comply with the foregoing requirements under a CIFCAM CLO management agreement, for so long as the minimum ownership requirements in the CIFCAM CLO management agreements remain in effect, CIFC Parent has agreed not to transfer any securities of the related CIFCAM CLO issuers that it owns to any person other than us or one of our subsidiaries, and has agreed to, among other things, use commercially reasonable efforts to remain our affiliate. Despite this covenant, such minimum ownership and affiliate requirements may fail to be satisfied in the future, which may result in the removal of CIFCAM as manager under the applicable CLO management agreements. The Advisers may experience declines in and deferrals of investment advisory fee income from its CLOs due to defaults, downgrades and depressed market values with respect to the collateral underlying such CDOs. Under the investment management agreements between the Advisers and the CLOs they manage, payment of an Adviser's investment advisory fees is generally subject to a "waterfall" structure. Pursuant to these "waterfalls," all or a portion of an Adviser's fees may be deferred if, among other things, the CLOs do not generate sufficient cash flows to pay the required interest on the notes they have issued to investors and certain expenses they have incurred. Deferrals could occur if the issuers of the collateral underlying the CLOs default on or defer payments of principal or interest relating to such collateral. Due to severe levels of defaults and delinquencies on the assets underlying certain of the CLOs managed by DCM and CypressTree, DCM and CypressTree have both experienced declines in and deferrals of their investment advisory fees. If similar defaults and delinquencies resume, the Advisers could experience additional declines in and deferrals of their investment advisory fees. Additionally, all or a portion of an Adviser's investment advisory fees from the CLOs that it manages may be deferred if such CLOs fail to meet their over-collateralization requirements. Pursuant to the "waterfall" structure discussed above, such failures generally require cash flows to be diverted to amortize the most senior class of notes prior to paying a portion of the Adviser's investment advisory fees. Defaulted assets and assets that have been severely downgraded are generally carried at a reduced value for purposes of the over-collateralization tests. In some CLOs, these assets are required to be carried at their market values for purposes of the over-collateralization tests. Due to exceptionally high levels of defaults, severe downgrades and depressed market values of the collateral underlying certain CLOs managed by the DCM, CNCIM and Cypress Tree, some CLOs have breached their over-collateralization tests, and DCM, CNCIM and CypressTree have therefore experienced, and may continue to experience, declines in and deferrals of their investment advisory fees. The Advisers could lose investment advisory income from the CLOs it manages or client AUM as a result of the triggering of certain structural protections built into such CLOs. The CLOs managed by the Advisers generally contain structural provisions including, but not limited to, over-collateralization requirements and/or market value triggers that are meant to protect investors from deterioration in the credit quality of the underlying collateral pool. In certain cases, non-compliance with these structural provisions can lead to events of default under the indenture governing a CLO followed by the 19 Table of Contents acceleration of the CLO's obligation to repay the notes issued by the CLO and, ultimately, liquidation of the underlying collateral. In the event of a liquidation of the collateral underlying a CLO, the relevant Adviser will lose client AUM and therefore investment advisory fees, which could have a material and adverse effect on such Adviser's earnings. Three of the CDOs of asset backed securities that DCM manages have triggered events of default primarily resulting from downgrades of their underlying collateral. The notes issued by these three CDOs have been accelerated. However, pursuant to the indentures governing these CDOs, the CDOs will not be liquidated unless either the proceeds of such liquidation will be sufficient to pay off all of the notes issued by the CDO, the accrued investment advisory fees and certain administrative expenses or the holders of a supermajority (or, in the case of one of the CDOs that has triggered an event of default but not an acceleration of notes, a majority) of the notes direct the liquidation. We could incur losses due to trading errors by the Advisers. The Advisers could make errors in placing transaction orders for investment products they manage, such as purchasing a security for a product whose investment guidelines prohibit the product from holding the security, purchasing an unintended amount of the security, or placing a buy order when an Adviser intended to place a sell order, or vice-versa. If the transaction resulted in a loss for the product, the relevant Adviser might be required to reimburse the product for the loss. Such reimbursements could be substantial. It is also possible that we could be subject to intentional misconduct by our employees or others that could result in severe negative consequences, including financial penalties and reputational harm. These errors and misconduct could affect trades on behalf of the Advisers, which could exacerbate the adverse financial impact on us. The Advisers depend on third-party distribution channels to market its CLOs. The Advisers' CLO management services are marketed by institutions that act as selling or placement agents for CLOs. The potential investor base for CLOs is limited, and the Advisers' ability to access clients is highly dependent on access to these selling and placement agents. These channels may not be accessible to the Advisers, which could have a material and adverse effect on the Advisers' ability to launch new CLOs. In addition, the Advisers' existing relationships with third-party distributors and access to new distributors could be adversely impacted by recent consolidation in the financial services industry, which could result in increased distribution costs, a reduction in the number of third parties selling or placing the Advisers' CLOs or increased competition to access third-party distribution channels. An Adviser's failure to comply with investment guidelines set by its clients or the provisions of the management agreement and other agreements to which it is a party could result in damage awards against such Adviser and a loss of AUM, either of which could cause our earnings to decline. As an investment adviser, each Adviser has a fiduciary duty to its clients. When clients retain an Adviser to manage assets on their behalf, they may specify certain guidelines regarding investment allocation and strategy that such Adviser is required to observe in the management of its portfolios. In addition, such Adviser is required to comply with the obligations set forth in the management agreements and other agreements to which it is a party. Although each Adviser utilizes procedures, processes and the services of experienced advisors to assist it in adhering to these guidelines and agreements, we cannot assure that such precautions will protect us from potential liabilities. An Adviser's failure to comply with these guidelines or the terms of these agreements could adversely affect our financial performance. We may invest in the subordinated and mezzanine notes of CLOs, and such investments involve various risks, including that CLO subordinated notes receive distributions from the CLO only if the CLO generates enough income to first pay the holders of its debt securities and its expenses. Our assets include subordinated and mezzanine notes of certain CLOs we manage, and we may buy subordinated and mezzanine notes of, or other interests in, other CLOs. A CLO is a special purpose vehicle that purchases collateral (such as loans or asset-backed securities) that is expected to generate a stream of interest or other income. The CLO issues various classes of notes that participate in that income stream, typically one or more classes of debt instruments and a class of subordinated notes. The subordinated notes are usually entitled to all of the income generated by the CLO after the CLO pays all of the interest due on the debt notes and its expenses. However, there will be little or no income available to the CLO subordinated notes 20 Table of Contents if there are defaults on the underlying collateral in excess of certain amounts or if the recoveries on such defaulted collateral are less than certain amounts. In that event, the value of our investment in the CLO's subordinated notes could decrease substantially. In addition, the subordinated notes of CLOs are generally illiquid, and because they represent a leveraged investment in the CLO's assets, their value will generally fluctuate more than the values of the underlying collateral. We are required to consolidate certain CLOs we manage, however, we have no right to the benefits from, nor do we bear the risk associated with, the assets held by such CLOs, beyond our minimal direct investments and beneficial interests in, and management fees generated from, them. Risks Related to the Merger We elected to become a "controlled company" within the meaning of the NASDAQ rules and, as a result, qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements intended to protect public stockholders' interests. CIFC Parent and DFR Holdings together control a majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. As a result, we elected to qualify as a "controlled company" within the meaning of the corporate governance standards of the NASDAQ rules. Under these rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, group or another company is a "controlled company" and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including: •the requirement that a majority of our Board consist of independent directors; •the requirement that we have independent director oversight of executive officer compensation; and •the requirement that we have independent director oversight of director nominations. We have agreed pursuant to the Amended and Restated Stockholders Agreement to utilize these exemptions. As a result, our Board does not have a majority of independent directors, and its nominating and corporate governance committee and compensation committee do not consist entirely of independent directors. Accordingly, our stockholders do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements under the NASDAQ rules. The market price of the common stock may decline as a result of the exercise of certain registration rights granted to CIFC Parent and DFR Holdings. We are unable to predict the potential effects of the exercise of previously granted registration rights on the trading activity and market price of our common stock. We have granted registration rights to CIFC Parent and DFR Holdings for the resale of certain shares received by them in the Merger and CNCIM Acquisition, respectively, and the shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes. These registration rights would facilitate the resale of such securities into the public market, and any such resale would increase the number of shares of our common stock available for public trading. Sales by CIFC Parent or DFR Holdings of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales might occur, could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. The failure to successfully integrate CIFCAM's and DCM's business and operations could adversely affect us. The combined company's ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to integrate the businesses of CIFCAM and DCM. The combination of two independent companies is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. As a result, the combined company has been, and will be, required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the business practices and operations of CIFCAM and DCM. The integration process may disrupt the business of either or both of the companies and their adviser affiliates and, if implemented ineffectively, would preclude realization of the full benefits expected by us. The failure of the combined company to meet the challenges involved in integrating successfully the operations of CIFCAM and DCM or otherwise to realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction could cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, the activities of the combined company and could seriously harm our results of operations. In addition, the overall integration of the two companies may result in unanticipated 21 Table of Contents problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of customer and supplier relationships and diversion of management's attention and may cause our stock price to decline. The difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among others: •consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures and eliminating duplicative operations; •maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees; •the diversion of management's attention from ongoing business concerns; •unanticipated issues in integrating information technology and other systems; •managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating the operations of the combined company; and •making any necessary modifications to operating control standards to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. We may be unable to realize anticipated cost synergies or may incur additional costs. We previously identified certain anticipated cost synergies in connection with the Merger and related transactions, including the elimination of redundant corporate costs, reductions of general and administrative expenses and other savings. While management believes that these cost synergies are achievable, we may be unable to realize all of these cost synergies within the timeframe expected or at all. In addition, we may incur additional and/or unexpected costs in order to realize these cost synergies. We may continue to incur significant transaction costs in connection with the Merger. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, a number of non-recurring costs associated with combining the operations of two companies. The substantial majority of non-recurring expenses resulting from the Merger and related transactions will be comprised of transaction costs, operations, facilities and systems transfer costs, and costs related to formulating and implementing integration plans. Additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the two companies' businesses. Although we expect that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, should allow us to offset incremental transaction and transaction-related costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 