RISK FACTORS — RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS — Slow growth or contractions in the Internet café industry in Korea may affect our ability to target a core group of users.” See also ITEM 4.B. “BUSINESS OVERVIEW — LAWS AND REGULATIONS — Korea” for detailed discussion regarding Korean laws that affect our operations. Under the Act on Promotion of the Game Industry, (i) “business places offering adolescent games” refers to business places which install and provide to the public games which are rated and classified as appropriate for use by all ages, (ii) “business places offering ordinary games” refers to business places which install and provide to the public, in addition to games which are rated and classified as appropriate for use by all ages, games which are rated and classified as prohibited to be used by minors, (iii) “business places offering Internet computer game facilities” refers to business places which have the necessary equipment such as computers to enable the public to play games 19 Table of Contents or access other information materials on the Internet and (iv) “business places offering combined distributed games” refers to business places which provide games or Internet game facilities under the Act on Promotion of the Game Industry as well as other businesses in the same location. China The Chinese government, through various regulatory authorities, heavily regulates the Internet sector, which includes the online game industry. In addition, there are uncertainties in the interpretation and application of existing Chinese laws, regulations and policies regarding the activities of Internet companies and businesses in China. Any violations of current and future laws and regulations could materially and adversely affect our and our Chinese licensee’s business, financial condition and results of operations. See ITEM 4.B. “BUSINESS OVERVIEW — LAWS AND REGULATIONS — China” for detailed discussion regarding Chinese laws that affect our operations. Taiwan In Taiwan, the game industry and online game companies are subject to various laws and regulations on different aspects, including, among others, consumer protection, rating system for protection of children and juveniles, Internet cafés, intellectual property and privacy protection. Currently there is no national law specifically regulating the operation of Internet cafés in Taiwan. However, several municipalities and counties of Taiwan, such as Taipei City, New Taipei City, Taoyuan County, Tainan City, Nantou County, Lienchiang County and Kinmen County, have promulgated ordinances imposing restrictions on Internet cafés. In order to have Internet cafés regulated under a national legislation rather than by different municipalities and counties ordinances, the ROC Ministry of Economic Affairs as well as some legislators propose to regulate all Internet cafés located in Taiwan under a national legislation to be enacted. It is unclear, however, whether or when the above proposals will be passed by the Legislative Yuan and what restrictions will be imposed on Internet cafés. If the future laws and regulations have an impact on the Internet cafés, the growth of the Internet cafés industry in Taiwan may be affected and adversely affect our business, financial condition and result of operations. See ITEM 4.B. “BUSINESS OVERVIEW — LAWS AND REGULATIONS — Taiwan” for detailed discussion regarding Taiwanese laws that affect our operations. Thailand Although there is no specific law or regulation that directly governs the online game industry in Thailand, new legislation was passed in June 2008 to impose certain restrictions to control operators of game shops (i.e., places where people can play games, including Internet cafés that provide game services) and limit access to game shops by users under 18 years of age. These restrictions include limitations on the business days and hours, location and building structure of game shops as well as the daily playing time of games and curfew hours for users under 18 years of age. According to the Ministerial Regulation of Ministry of Culture Re: Permission and Operation of Video Shops B.E. 2552 (September 24, 2009), users under 15 years of age can enter game shops and Internet cafés between 2:00 p.m. and 8:00 p.m. on Monday to Friday; and between 10:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. on public holidays or during school term breaks prescribed by the competent registrar. For users aged from 15 years to 18 years, the access times are limited to between 2:00 p.m. and 10:00 p.m. on Monday to Friday; and between 10:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on public holidays or during school term breaks as prescribed by the competent registrar. See ITEM 4.B. “BUSINESS OVERVIEW — LAWS AND REGULATIONS — Thailand” for detailed discussion regarding Thai laws that affect our operations. United States and Japan See ITEM 4.B. “BUSINESS OVERVIEW — LAWS AND REGULATIONS” for detailed discussion regarding U.S. and Japanese laws that may materially impacted our operations. 20 Table of Contents Our online games may be subject to governmental restrictions or ratings systems, which could delay or prohibit the release of new games or reduce the existing and potential scope of our user base. Legislation is periodically introduced in many of the countries in which our games are distributed to establish a system for protecting consumers from the influence of graphic violence and sexually explicit materials contained in various types of games. For instance, Korean law requires online game companies to obtain ratings classifications and implement procedures to restrict access of online games to certain age groups. Similar mandatory ratings systems and other regulations affecting the content and distribution of our games have been adopted or are under review in Taiwan, China, the United States and other markets for our online games. In the future, we may be required to modify our game content or features or alter our marketing strategies to comply with new governmental regulations or ratings assigned to our current or future games, which could delay or prohibit the release of new games or upgrades and reduce the existing and potential scope of our user base. Moreover, uncertainties regarding governmental restrictions or ratings systems applicable to our business could give rise to market confusion, thereby materially and adversely affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations. Restrictions and controls on currency exchange in Korea and in certain countries in which our games are distributed may limit our ability to effectively utilize revenues generated in Won to fund our business activities outside Korea or expenditures denominated in foreign currencies, and may limit our ability to receive and remit revenues effectively. The existing and any future restrictions on currency exchange in Korea, including Korean exchange control regulations, may restrict our ability to convert Won into foreign currencies under certain emergency circumstances, such as natural calamities, wars, conflicts of arms or grave and sudden changes in domestic or foreign economic circumstances, difficulties in Korea’s international balance of payments and international finance and obstacles in carrying out currency policies, exchange rate policies and other Korean macroeconomic policies. Such restrictions may limit our ability to effectively utilize revenues generated in Won to fund our business activities outside Korea or expenditures denominated in foreign currencies. In addition, the governments in certain markets in which our games are distributed, including Thailand, Taiwan and China, impose controls on the convertibility of local currency into foreign currencies and, in some cases, the remittance of currency outside their countries. Under current foreign exchange control regulations of certain markets, shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our overseas licensees to pay license fees and royalties, most of which are paid in U.S. dollars, to us. Restrictions on our ability to receive license fees, royalties and other payments from our licensees would adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity. Adverse changes in the withholding tax rates in the countries from which we receive license fees and royalties could adversely affect our net income. We may be subject to income tax withholding in countries where we derive revenues. Such withholding is made by our overseas licensees at the current withholding rates in such countries. To the extent Korea has a tax treaty with any such country, the withholding rate prescribed by such tax treaty will apply. Under the Corporation Tax Law of Korea, we are entitled to and recognize a capped tax credit computed based on the amount of income taxes withheld overseas when filing our income tax return in Korea. Accordingly, the amount of taxes withheld overseas may be offset against taxes payable in Korea. The tax rates on royalties pursuant to tax treaties that Korea entered into have not changed recently. Any adverse changes in tax treaties between Korea and the countries from which we receive license fees and royalties, such as with the rate of withholding tax in the countries in which our games are distributed or in Korean tax law enabling us to recognize tax credits for taxes withheld overseas, could adversely affect our net income. 21 Table of Contents RISKS RELATING TO OUR MARKET ENVIRONMENT Our businesses may be adversely affected by developments affecting the economies of the countries in which our games are distributed. Our future performance will depend in large part on the economic growth of our principal markets. Our top geographic markets in terms of revenues were Japan, Korea, the United States and Canada, Taiwan and Hong Kong/ Macau, and Europe, representing 51.3%, 18.2%, 10.2%, 6.2% and 3.6%, respectively, of our total revenues in 2011. Accordingly, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations are subject to the economic, political, legal and regulatory conditions and developments in these countries. Adverse economic developments in such markets may have an adverse effect on the number of our subscribers and our revenues and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Deterioration in global economic conditions in the recent global downturn and the debt crisis in Europe has weakened the economies of the countries in which our games are distributed. Many countries for the foreseeable future may continue to experience economic slowdowns and recessionary pressures, including difficulty in securing credit in the global financial markets and decreased consumer confidence and discretionary spending. While the recent global economic developments did not yet have a material adverse effect on us, continuing deterioration or delayed recovery in global economic conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuations in exchange rates could result in foreign currency exchange losses. In most of the countries in which our games are distributed, the revenues generated by our overseas subsidiaries or licensees are denominated in local currencies, which include the U.S. dollar, the Japanese Yen, the Euro, the NT dollar, the Thai Baht and the Chinese Yuan. In 2011, approximately 81.8% of our revenues were denominated in foreign currencies, primarily in the U.S. dollar and the Japanese Yen. As the revenues denominated in local currencies, other than the U.S. dollar, the Japanese Yen and the Euro, are converted into the U.S. dollar for remittance of monthly royalty payments to us, any depreciation of the local currencies against the U.S. dollar will result in reduced license fees and monthly royalty payments in U.S. dollar terms and may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. While we receive monthly royalty revenues from our overseas licensees in foreign currencies, substantially all of our costs are denominated in Won. Our financial statements are also prepared and presented in Won. We receive monthly royalty payments from our overseas licensees based on a percentage of revenues confirmed and recorded at the end of each month applying the foreign exchange rate applicable on such date. Appreciation of the Won against the Japanese Yen or other foreign currencies will result in foreign currency losses that may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. See ITEM 5.A. “OPERATING RESULTS — OVERVIEW — Foreign currency effects.” As of December 31, 2011, we have not entered into any outstanding foreign currency forward exchange contract. We may enter into hedging transactions in the future to mitigate our exposure to foreign currency exchange risks, but we may not be able to do so in a timely or cost-effective manner, or at all. Increased tensions with North Korea could adversely affect us and the price of our ADSs. Relations between Korea and North Korea have been tense throughout Korea’s modern history. The level of tension between the two Koreas has fluctuated and may increase abruptly as a result of current and future events. In recent years, there have been heightened security concerns stemming from North Korea’s nuclear weapons and long-range missile programs and increased uncertainty regarding North Korea’s actions, particularly in light of the recent leadership change, and possible responses from the international community. There can be no assurance that the level of tension on the Korean peninsula will not escalate in the future. Any further increase in tension, which may occur, for example, if North Korea experiences a leadership or economic crisis, high-level contacts break down, or military hostilities occur, could adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations and could lead to a decline in the market value of our ADSs. 22 Table of Contents Disruptions in Taiwan’s political environment could seriously harm our business and operations in Taiwan. In 2011 and 2010, we derived 6.1% and 5.2%, respectively, of our total revenues from our licensees in Taiwan. The Chinese government asserts that it has sovereignty over Taiwan as well as mainland China and does not recognize the legitimacy of the government of Taiwan. The Chinese government has indicated that it may use military force to gain control over Taiwan if Taiwan declares independence or a foreign power interferes in Taiwan’s internal affairs. In response, the Taiwanese government promulgated the Referendum Law on December 31, 2003, last amended on June 17, 2009, allowing referenda on a range of issues to be proposed and voted upon. The law allows a referendum on key constitutional issues in the event that Taiwan faces a military attack from a foreign power and its sovereignty is threatened. In March 2008, the Taiwanese people elected President Ma Ying-jeou, who has supported the cultivation of better relations with mainland China. For instance, in July 2008, Taiwan lifted the ban on Chinese person’s visiting Taiwan with certain limitations. In December 2008, Taiwan re-established regular direct transportation links with mainland China that had been shut since 1949, including regularly scheduled commercial flights and shipping and mail. Further, the Taiwanese government has partially unwound the restrictions on the investment in Taiwan by Chinese companies and person and several new regulations in connection therewith have been passed. For the purpose of furthering financial cooperation, Taiwan has entered into a memorandum of understanding regarding cross-strait financial supervision with mainland China on November 16, 2009, which became effective on January 16, 2010. Also, after several months of negotiation, the Taiwanese and Chinese governments entered into the Economic Cooperation Framework Agreement for enjoying custom benefits on June 29, 2010, which became effective on September 12, 2010. President Ma Ying-jeou was re-elected in January 2012, and the people on both sides of the Taiwan Straits generally believe he will continue to cultivate better relations with mainland China. Although recent trends may be beneficial to Taiwan’s economy, the history between Taiwan and mainland China has been marked with uncertainties. Deteriorations in the relationship between Taiwan and China and other factors affecting Taiwan’s political environment may materially and adversely affect our Taiwanese licensee’s business and our results of operations. RISKS RELATING TO OUR AMERICAN DEPOSITARY SHARES The public shareholders of our ADSs may have more difficulty protecting their interests than they would as shareholders of a U.S. corporation. Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of incorporation and by the laws and regulations governing Korean corporations. The rights and responsibilities of our shareholders and members of our Board of Directors under Korean law may be different from those that apply to shareholders and directors of a U.S. corporation. For example, minority shareholder rights afforded under Korean law often require the minority shareholder to meet minimum shareholding requirements in order to exercise certain rights. Under applicable Korean law, of the total issued and outstanding shares, a shareholder must own at least (i) one percent to bring a shareholders’ derivative lawsuit (or to demand that a director cease certain activity or conduct if there are concerns that a director may cause irrevocable damage to the company by acting in violation of applicable laws and regulations or the articles of incorporation), (ii) three percent to demand convocation of an extraordinary meeting of shareholders, demand removal of directors or inspect the books and related documents of a company, or to propose the agenda for a general meeting of shareholders, (iii) ten percent to apply to the court for dissolution if there is gross improper management or a deadlock in corporate affairs likely to result in a significant and irreparable harm to the company or to apply to the court for a reorganization in the case of an insolvency and (iv) twenty percent to block a small-scale share exchange or a small merger that may be approved only by a board resolution. In addition, while the facts and circumstances of each case will differ, the duty of care required of a director under Korean law may not be the same as the fiduciary duty of a director of a U.S. corporation. Although the “business judgment rule” concept exists in Korea, there is insufficient case law or precedent to provide guidance to the management and shareholders as to how it should be applied or interpreted. Holders of our ADSs may have more difficulty protecting their interests against actions of our management, members of our Board of Directors or controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders of a U.S. corporation. 23 Table of Contents Any dividends paid on our common shares will be in Won and fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Won and the U.S. dollar may affect the amount received by you. If and when we declare cash dividends, the dividends will be paid to the depositary for the ADSs in Won and then converted by the depositary into U.S. dollars pursuant to the deposit agreement that governs the rights and obligations of the holders of ADSs. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Won and the U.S. dollar will affect, among other things, the U.S. dollar amounts you will receive from the depositary as dividends. Holders of ADSs may not receive dividends if the depositary does not believe it is reasonable or practicable to do so. In addition, the depositary may collect certain fees and expenses, at the sole discretion of the depositary, by billing the holders of ADSs for such charges or by deducting such charges from one or more cash dividends or other cash distributions from us to be distributed to the holders of ADSs. Your ability to deposit or withdraw common shares underlying the ADSs into and from the depositary facility may be limited, which may adversely affect the value of your investment. Under the terms of our deposit agreement, holders of our common shares may deposit such shares with the depositary’s custodian in Korea and obtain ADSs, and holders of our ADSs may surrender the ADSs to the depositary and receive our common shares. However, to the extent that a deposit of common shares exceeds the difference between: • the aggregate number of common shares we have consented to be deposited for the issuance of ADSs (including deposits in connection with offerings of ADSs and stock dividends or other distributions relating to ADSs); and • the number of common shares on deposit with the custodian for the benefit of the depositary at the time of such proposed deposit, such common shares will not be accepted for deposit unless (i) our consent with respect to such deposit has been obtained or (ii) such consent is no longer required under Korean laws and regulations or under the terms of the deposit agreement. Under the terms of the deposit agreement, no consent is required if the common shares are obtained through a dividend, free distribution, rights offering or reclassification of such shares. Under the terms of the deposit agreement, we have consented to any deposit to the extent that, after the deposit, the aggregate number of deposited common shares does not exceed 3,552,229 common shares or any greater number of common shares we determine from time to time (i.e., as a result of a subsequent offering, stock dividend or rights offer), unless the deposit is prohibited by applicable laws or violates our articles of incorporation; provided, however, that in the case of any subsequent offer by us or our affiliates, the limit on the number of common shares on deposit shall not apply to such offer and the number of common shares issued, delivered or sold pursuant to the offer (including common shares in the form of ADSs) shall be eligible for deposit under the deposit agreement, except to the extent such deposit is prohibited by applicable laws or violates our articles of incorporation or, in the case of any subsequent offer by us or our affiliates, we determine with the depositary to limit the number of common shares so offered that would be eligible for deposit under the deposit agreement in order to maintain liquidity of the shares in Korea as may be requested by the relevant Korean authorities. We might not consent to the deposit of any additional common shares. As a result, if a holder surrenders ADSs and withdraws common shares, the holder may not be able to subsequently deposit the common shares to obtain ADSs. You may not be able to exercise preemptive rights or participate in rights offerings and as a result, you may experience dilution in your ownership percentage in us. The Korean Commercial Code and our articles of incorporation require us to offer shareholders the right to subscribe for new common shares in proportion to their existing ownership percentages whenever new common shares are issued, except under certain circumstances as provided in our articles of incorporation. See ITEM 10.B. “ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION — Preemptive rights and issuance of additional shares.” Such exceptions include offering of new shares: • through a general public offering; 24 Table of Contents • to the members of the employee stock ownership association; • upon exercise of a stock option; • in the form of depositary receipts; • to induce foreign direct investment necessary for business in accordance with the Foreign Investment Promotion Act of Korea; • for the purpose of raising funds on an emergency basis; • to certain companies under joint venture arrangements; or • by a public offering or underwritten by underwriters for the purpose of listing such shares on any stock exchange. Accordingly, if we issue new shares to non-shareholders based on such exceptions, existing holders of ADSs will be diluted. If none of the above exemptions is available under Korean law, we may be required to grant subscription rights when issuing additional common shares. However, under U.S. law, we would not be able to make those rights available in the United States unless we register the securities to which the rights relate or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. Under the deposit agreement governing the ADSs, if we offer rights to subscribe for additional common shares, the depositary under the deposit agreement, after consultation with us, may make such rights available to you or dispose of such rights on behalf of you and make the net proceeds available to you or, if the depositary is unable to take such actions, it may allow the rights to lapse with no consideration to be received by you. The depositary is generally not required to make available any rights under any circumstances. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement under the Securities Act to enable you to exercise preemptive rights in respect of the common shares underlying the ADSs, and we cannot assure you that any registration statement would be filed or that an exemption from the registration requirement under the Securities Act would be available. Accordingly, you may not be entitled to exercise preemptive rights and may thereby suffer dilution of your interests in the Company. You will not be treated as our shareholder and you will not have shareholder rights such as the voting rights applicable to a holder of common shares. As an ADS holder, we are not obligated to and we will not treat you as one of our shareholders and therefore, you will not have the rights of a shareholder. Korean law and our articles of incorporation govern the rights applicable to our shareholder. The depositary will be treated as the shareholder of the common shares underlying your ADSs. As a holder of ADSs, you will have ADS holder rights, which is governed by deposit agreement among us, the depositary and you, as an ADS holder. Upon receipt of the necessary voting materials, you may instruct the depositary to vote the number of shares your ADSs represent. The depositary will notify you of shareholders’ meetings and arrange to deliver our voting materials to you only when we deliver them to the depositary with sufficient time under the terms of the deposit agreement. If there is a delay or loss of the proxy materials, we cannot ensure that you will receive voting materials or otherwise learn of an upcoming shareholders’ meeting to ensure that you may instruct the depositary to vote your shares. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions or for the manner of carrying out voting instructions. You would not be able to exercise dissent and appraisal rights unless you have withdrawn the underlying common shares from the depositary facility and become a holder of our common stock. In some limited circumstances, including the transfer of the whole or any significant part of our business, our acquisition of a part of the business of any other company having a material effect on our business, or our merger or consolidation with another company, dissenting shareholders have the right to require us to purchase their shares under Korean law. However, if you hold our ADSs, you will not be able to exercise such dissent and appraisal rights unless you have withdrawn the underlying common shares from the depositary facility and become our direct shareholder prior to the record date for the shareholders’ meeting at which the relevant transaction is to be approved. 25 Table of Contents We may amend the deposit agreement and the American Depositary Receipts without your consent for any reason and, if you disagree, your option will be limited to selling the ADSs or withdrawing the underlying securities. We may agree with the depositary to amend the deposit agreement and the ADRs without your consent for any reason. If an amendment adds or increases fees or charges, except for taxes and other governmental charges or expenses of the depositary, for registration fees, facsimile costs, delivery charges or similar items, or prejudices a substantial right of ADS holders, it will not become effective for outstanding ADRs until 30 days after the depositary notifies ADS holders of the amendment. At the time an amendment becomes effective, you are considered, by continuing to hold your ADSs, to agree to the amendment and to be bound by the ADRs and the deposit agreement as amended. If you do not agree with an amendment to the deposit agreement or the ADRs, your option is limited to selling the ADSs or withdrawing the underlying securities. No assurance can be given that the sale of ADSs would be made at a price satisfactory to you in such circumstances. In addition, the common shares underlying the ADSs are not listed on any stock exchange in Korea. Your ability to sell the underlying common shares following withdrawal and the liquidity of the common shares may be limited. You may be subject to Korean withholding tax. Under Korean tax law, if you are a U.S. investor, you may be subject to Korean withholding taxes on capital gains and dividends in respect of the ADSs unless an exemption or a reduction under the income tax treaty between the United States and Korea is available. Under the Korea-United States tax treaty, capital gains realized by holders that are residents of the United States eligible for treaty benefits will not be subject to Korean taxation upon the disposition of the ADSs. However, under the Korea-United States tax treaty, the following holders are not eligible for such tax treaty benefits: (i) in case the holder is a United States corporation, if by reason of any special measures, the tax imposed on such holder by the United States with respect to such capital gains is substantially less than the tax generally imposed by the United States on corporate profits, and 25% or more of the holder’s capital is held of record or is otherwise determined, after consultation between competent authorities of the United States and Korea, to be owned directly or indirectly by one or more persons who are not individual residents of the United States and (ii) in case the holder is an individual, if such holder maintains a fixed base in Korea for a period or periods aggregating 183 days or more during the taxable year and the holder’s ADSs or common shares giving rise to capital gains are effectively connected with such fixed base or such holder is present in Korea for a period or periods of 183 days or more during the taxable year. You may have difficulty bringing an original action or enforcing any judgment obtained outside Korea against us and our directors and officers who are not U.S. persons. We are organized under the laws of Korea, and most of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States. While we have a wholly-owned subsidiary in the United States, most of our assets and the assets of such persons are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons or to enforce against them or us court judgments obtained in the United States that are predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States or of the securities laws of any state of the United States. There is doubt as to the enforceability in Korea, either in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of United States courts, of civil liabilities predicated on the federal securities laws of the United States or the securities laws of any state of the United States. The transfer, sale or availability for sale of substantial amounts of our ADSs could adversely affect their market price. GungHo beneficially owns 59.3% of our common shares. If GungHo decides to sell or transfer substantial amounts of our common shares into the form of ADSs in the public market or if there is a perception of their intent to sell, the market price of our ADSs could be materially and adversely affected and could materially impair our future ability to raise capital through offerings of our ADSs. 26 Table of Contents 