Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves risks. The risks described below, should be considered in conjunction with the other information, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. If any of the following risks or other risks, which have not been identified or which we may believe are immaterial or unlikely, actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. In such a case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and shareholders may lose all or part of their investment. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Our independent registered public accounting firm’s report discloses a going concern issue for the Company. Our financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the discharge of liabilities in the normal course of business for the foreseeable future. However, due to our financial results, the substantial uncertainty throughout the U.S. banking industry and other matters discussed in this report, our independent public accountants have expressed, in their opinion, on our Consolidated Financial Statements, included in this report, that a substantial doubt exists regarding the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Continued operations may depend on our ability to comply with the terms of the Order, the terms of the expected written agreement with the Federal Reserve Board and the DBF, and the infusion of additional capital, which may be unavailable or available only on unacceptable terms. Our audited financial statements were prepared under the assumption that we will continue our operations on a going concern basis, which contemplated the realization of assets and the discharge of liabilities in the normal course of business. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that might be necessary if we are unable to continue as a going concern. If we are unable to continue as a going concern, you could lose some, if not all, of your investment. We are subject to heightened regulatory scrutiny and are currently under a Cease and Desist Order and anticipate becoming subject to a written agreement, both of which impose additional requirements and restrictions on our business. The Bank is primarily regulated by the FDIC and the DBF. Our compliance with FDIC and DBF regulations is costly and may limit our growth and restrict certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. The Bank is also subject to capital requirements of our regulators. Based on the results of our February 17, 2009 regulatory examination, particularly with respect to our levels of capital and classified assets, the DBF and FDIC have required us to enter into a Cease and Desist Order. The Order includes provisions requiring reductions in classified assets, improvements in liquidity and funds management practices, maintenance of an appropriate allowance for loan losses and specified capital ratios, dividend and bonus restrictions, amendments to our policies and frequent progress reports to regulatory authorities, as well as other provisions to help us improve our financial condition and profitability. Under the Order, the Bank must achieve and maintain total risk-based capital at or above 10% of total risk-weighted assets, and Tier 1 capital at or above 8% of total assets. If we do not comply with the terms of this order, we could face additional regulatory sanctions or civil money penalties. See “Supervision and Regulation—Regulatory Order” for a further description of the Order. The Company is subject to the supervision of the Federal Reserve Board and the Georgia Department, pursuant to which we anticipate that we will be required to execute an Agreement with our regulators that will prohibit us from declaring or paying dividends without prior written consent, and such request for consent must be in compliance with the Board of Governor’s Policy Statement on the Payment of Cash Dividends by State Member Bank Holding Companies, dated November 14, 1985, and Georgia Department Statement of Policies. Moreover, we anticipate that pursuant to the Agreement, without prior written consent from our regulators, the Company will be prohibited from taking dividends, or any other form of payment representing a reduction in capital from, the Bank; paying interest, principal or other sums on subordinated debentures; incurring, increasing or guaranteeing any debt; redeeming any shares of our capital stock; and increasing salaries or bonuses paid to executive officers. We anticipate that the expected Agreement will require all salaries, bonuses and fees to be paid to executive officers, excluding the reimbursement of documented, reasonable expenses, limited to an aggregate of $500 per month per officer, must be preapproved by the Board on a regular basis. In appointing any new director or any executive officer, we expect to be required to notify our regulators and comply with regulatory restrictions on indemnification and severance 18 Table of Contents payments. Finally, the Company, pursuant to the expected Agreement, anticipates being required to submit a capital plan to maintain sufficient capital and a plan to reimburse the Bank for payments made for the Company’s activities. Compliance with the Order and the expected Agreement will require significant time and attention from our management team, which may increase costs, impede efficiency of our internal business processes and adversely affect our profitability in the near-term. If we are unable to implement our plans in a timely manner or otherwise comply with our commitments outlined above, or if we fail to adequately resolve any other matters any of our regulators may require us to address in the future, we could become subject to more stringent supervisory actions. The terms of any such supervisory action could have a material negative effect on our business, operating flexibility, or financial condition. We have incurred operating losses and cannot assure you that we will be profitable in the future. We have incurred a net operating loss of $59.2 million, or $14.05 loss per share, for the year ended December 31, 2009 and a net loss of $643 thousand, or $0.15 loss per share, for the year ended December 31, 2008, due in both cases primarily to credit losses and associated costs, including a significant provision for loan losses. Although we have taken steps to reduce our credit exposure, we likely will continue to have a higher than normal level of non-performing assets and charge-offs through 2010 and into 2011, which would continue to adversely impact our overall financial condition and results of operations. We may experience increased delinquencies and credit losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition and results of operations. Like other lenders, we face the risk that our customers will not repay their loans. A customer’s failure to repay us is usually preceded by missed monthly payments. In some instances, however, a customer may declare bankruptcy prior to missing payments, and, following a borrower filing bankruptcy, a lender’s recovery of the credit extended is often limited. Since our loans are secured by collateral, we may attempt to seize the collateral when and if customers default on their loans. However, the value of the collateral may not equal the amount of the unpaid loan, and we may be unsuccessful in recovering the remaining balance from our customers. Rising delinquencies and rising rates of bankruptcy in our market area generally and among our customers specifically can be precursors of future charge-offs and may require us to increase our allowance for loan and lease losses. Higher charge-off rates and an increase in our allowance for loan and lease losses may hurt our overall financial performance if we are unable to increase revenue to compensate for these losses and may also increase our cost of funds. The impact of the current economic environment on market performance of other financial institutions in our primary market area, actions taken by our competitors to address the current economic downturn, and public perception of and confidence in the economy generally, and the banking industry specifically, may present significant challenges for us and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are operating in a challenging and uncertain economic environment, including generally uncertain national conditions and local conditions in our markets. Financial institutions continue to be affected by sharp declines in the real estate market and constrained financial markets. While we are taking steps to decrease and limit our exposure to commercial real estate, and construction, acquisition and development loans, we nonetheless retain direct exposure to these markets, and we are affected by the current economic downturn. Continued declines in real estate values and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment, including job losses, could have an adverse effect on our borrowers or their customers, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The impact of recent events relating to housing and commercial real estate markets has not been limited to those directly involved in the real estate industry, but rather it has impacted a number of related businesses such as building materials suppliers, equipment leasing firms, and real estate attorneys, among others. All of these affected businesses have banking relationships and when their businesses suffer from recession, the banking relationship suffers as well. In addition, the market value of the real estate securing our loans as collateral has been adversely affected by the slowing economy and unfavorable changes in economic conditions in our market areas and could be further adversely affected in the future. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 92.0% of our loans receivable were secured by real estate. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses caused by the adverse market and economic conditions, including the downturn in the real estate market, in our markets will 19 Table of Contents continue to adversely affect the value of our assets, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Currently, we are experiencing such an economic downturn, and if it continues, our earnings could be further adversely affected. The overall deterioration in economic conditions may subject us to increased regulatory scrutiny in the current environment. In addition, further deterioration in national and local economic conditions in our markets could drive losses beyond that which is provided for in our allowance for loan losses, resulting in the following other consequences: increased loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures; decline in demand for our products and services; decrease in deposits, adversely affecting our liquidity position; and decline in value of collateral, reducing our customers’ borrowing power and the value of assets and collateral associated with our existing loans. As a community bank, we are less able to spread the risk of unfavorable economic conditions than larger or more regional banks. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas even if they do occur. Recent negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets may adversely affect our operations and results. Negative developments during 2008 and 2009 in the global credit and the derivative markets have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general with the expectation of the general economic downturn continuing into 2010. As a result of this “credit crunch,” commercial as well as consumer loan portfolio performances have deteriorated at many institutions and the competition for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. Global securities markets in general, and bank holding company stock prices in particular, have been negatively affected, as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets compared to recent years. If these negative developments continue, our business operations and financial results will continue to be negatively affected. We make and hold in our portfolio a significant number of commercial real estate (“CRE”) and land acquisition, development and construction loans, which pose more credit risk than other types of loans typically made by financial institutions. CRE lending and acquisition, development and construction lending usually involve higher credit risks than that of single-family residential lending. These types of loans involve larger loan balances to a single borrower or groups of related borrowers. As of December 31, 2009, approximately $253.0 million, or 35.17% of our total loan portfolio, consisted of CRE loans, and approximately $297.0 million, or 41.28% of our total loan portfolio, represented construction or land development loans. CRE loans may be affected to a greater extent than residential loans by adverse conditions in real estate markets or the economy because CRE borrowers’ ability to repay their loans depends on the successful development of their properties, as well as the factors affecting residential real estate borrowers. These loans also involve greater risk because they generally are not fully amortizing over the loan period, but have a balloon payment due at maturity. A borrower’s ability to make a balloon payment typically will depend on being able to either refinance the loan or sell the underlying property in a timely manner. Risk of loss on a construction loan depends largely upon whether our initial estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction equals or exceeds the cost of the property construction (including interest) and the availability of permanent take-out financing. During the construction phase, a number of factors can result in delays and cost overruns. If estimates of value are inaccurate or if actual construction costs exceed estimates, the value of the property securing the loan may be insufficient to ensure full repayment when completed through a permanent loan or by seizure of collateral. CRE and acquisition, development and construction loans are more susceptible to a risk of loss during a downturn in the business cycle. Our underwriting, review, and monitoring cannot eliminate all of the risks related to these loans. Further, we could also be required to further increase our allowance for possible loan losses and capital levels as a result of CRE lending exposures, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and our financial condition. Moreover, if the losses that were initially associated with the residential mortgage market continue to spread to commercial real estate credits, then we may be forced to take greater losses or retain more non-performing assets, which could require us to increase our allowance for possible loan losses and have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. 20 Table of Contents Ongoing deterioration in the housing market and the homebuilding industry may lead to increased losses and further worsening of delinquencies and non-performing assets in our loan portfolios. Consequently, our results of operations may be adversely impacted. There has been substantial industry concern and publicity over asset quality among financial institutions due in large part to issues related to subprime mortgage lending, declining real estate values and general economic concerns. As of December 31, 2009, our non-performing assets had increased significantly to $137.0 million, or 18.5%, of our loan portfolio plus other real estate owned. Furthermore, the housing and the residential mortgage markets recently have experienced a variety of difficulties and changed economic conditions. If market conditions continue to deteriorate, they may lead to additional valuation adjustments on our loan portfolios and real estate owned as we continue to reassess the market value of our loan portfolio, the losses associated with the loans in default, and the net realizable value of real estate owned. The homebuilding industry has experienced a significant and sustained decline in demand for new homes and an oversupply of new and existing homes available for sale in various markets, including some of the markets in which we lend. Our customers who are builders and developers face greater difficulty in selling their homes in markets where these trends are more pronounced. Consequently, we are facing increased delinquencies and non-performing assets as these builders and developers are forced to default on their loans with us. We do not know when the housing market will improve, and accordingly, additional downgrades, provisions for loan losses, and charge-offs related to our loan portfolio may occur. The amount of other real estate owned (“OREO”) may increase significantly, resulting in additional losses, and costs and expenses that will negatively affect our operations. At December 31, 2008, we had a total of $10.2 million of OREO, and at December 31, 2009, we had a total of $21.1 million of OREO, reflecting a $10.9 million or 106.6% increase from year-end 2008 to year-end 2009. These increases in OREO are due, among other things, to the continued deterioration of the real estate market and the tightening of the credit market. As the amount of OREO increases, our losses, and the costs and expenses to maintain the real estate likewise increase. Due to the ongoing economic crisis, the amount of OREO may continue to increase throughout 2010. Any additional increase in losses, and maintenance costs and expenses due to OREO may have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Such effects may be particularly pronounced in a market of reduced real estate values and excess inventory, which may make the disposition of OREO properties more difficult, increase maintenance costs and expenses, and may reduce our ultimate realization from any OREO sales. Our use of appraisals in deciding whether to make a loan on or secured by real property or how to value such loan in the future may not accurately describe the net value of the real property collateral that we can realize. In considering whether to make a loan secured by real property, we generally require an appraisal of the property. However, an appraisal is only an estimate of the value of the property at the time the appraisal is made, and, as real estate values in our market area have experienced changes in value in relatively short periods of time, this estimate might not accurately describe the net value of the real property collateral after the loan is closed. If the appraisal does not reflect the amount that may be obtained upon any sale or foreclosure of the property, we may not realize an amount equal to the indebtedness secured by the property. The valuation of the property may negatively impact the continuing value of such loan and could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, which may require us to materially increase our allowance, which would adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. We maintain an allowance for estimated loan losses that we believe is adequate for absorbing any probable losses in our loan portfolio. Management determines the provision for loan losses based upon an analysis of general market conditions, credit quality of our loan portfolio, and performance of our customers relative to their financial obligations with us. As a result of a difficult real estate market and the deterioration of asset quality since 2008, we have increased our allowance from 1.47% of outstanding portfolio loans as of December 31, 2008 to 2.99% as of December 31, 2009. Further, it may be necessary for us to increase our allowance during 2010. We employ an 21 Table of Contents outside vendor specializing in credit risk management to evaluate our loan portfolio for risk grading, which can result in changes in our allowance for estimated loan losses. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires that significant estimates of current risk be made, using existing qualitative and quantitative information, all of which may undergo material changes. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating, and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, that may be beyond our control, and such losses may exceed the allowance for estimated loan losses. Significant increases to the provision for loan losses may be necessary if material adverse changes in general economic conditions occur or the performance of our loan portfolio deteriorates. Additionally, federal banking regulators, as an integral part of their supervisory function, periodically review the allowance for estimated loan losses. If these regulatory agencies require us to increase the allowance for estimated loan losses, it would have a negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Although management believes that the allowance for estimated loan losses is adequate to absorb any probable losses on existing loans that may become uncollectable, we are consistently adjusting our loan portfolio and underwriting standards to reflect current market conditions. We can provide no assurance that our methodology will not change and that the allowance will prove sufficient to cover actual loan losses in the future. We are subject to liquidity risk in our operations and our reliance on time deposits, including out-of-market certificates of deposits, as a source of funds for loans and other liquidity needs, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Liquidity risk is the possibility of being unable, at a reasonable cost and within acceptable risk tolerances, to pay obligations as they come due, to capitalize on growth opportunities as they arise, or to pay regular dividends because of an inability to liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding on a timely basis. Liquidity is required to fund various obligations, including credit obligations to borrowers, mortgage originations, withdrawals by depositors, repayment of debt, dividends to shareholders, operating expenses, and capital expenditures. Liquidity is derived primarily from retail deposit growth and retention, principal and interest payments on loans and investment securities, net cash provided from operations and access to other funding sources. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole, given the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations in the domestic and worldwide credit markets. In addition, we are currently classified as “undercapitalized” for regulatory capital purposes. As a result, we are subject to enhanced regulatory supervision, both under the Order described above and under FDIC regulations. We are unable to accept, renew or roll over brokered deposits absent a waiver from the FDIC. This limits our access to funding sources and could adversely affect our liquidity and net interest margin. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $236.0 million in out of market deposits, including brokered deposits, which represented approximately 27.43% of our total deposits. If we are unable to continue to attract deposits and maintain sufficient liquidity, our ability to meet our obligations, including the payout of deposit accounts would be adversely affected. If our liquidity becomes severely impaired and we are unable to meet our financial obligations, including the payout of deposit accounts, or if our capital levels become unacceptable to our banking regulators, the Bank could be placed into receivership and you could lose the entire amount of your investment. Because we are currently classified as less than well capitalized, we are also prohibited from paying rates in excess of 75 basis points above the local market average on deposits of comparable maturity in our Georgia markets. In our Jacksonville market, however, we are prohibited from paying rates in excess of 75 basis points above the national average on deposits, as calculated by the FDIC. Effective January 1, 2010, financial institutions that are not well capitalized are prohibited, except in very limited circumstances where the FDIC permits use of a higher local market rate, from paying yields for deposits in excess of 75 basis points above a national average rate for deposits of comparable maturity, as calculated by the FDIC. This national rate may be lower than the prevailing rates in our local market, and although the FDIC has permitted us to use the local market rate in our Georgia markets, the FDIC could revoke this determination in the future. The restrictions on the rates we are able to pay on deposit accounts may negatively impact our ability to compete for deposits in our market area and, as a result, we may be unable to attract or maintain core deposits, and our liquidity and ability to support demand for loans could be adversely affected. 22 Table of Contents As a result of regulatory restrictions discussed above and the Order, our access to additional borrowed funds is currently limited and we may become subject to acute liquidity stress unless we are able to improve our regulatory status to remove these restrictions and regain access to brokered funds, replace maturing brokered deposits with core deposits or other non-brokered funding or otherwise reduce our liquidity needs. If we are unable to meet our liquidity needs as a result of competition in the marketplace, regulatory restrictions to which we are subject, or for any other reason, our operations could be materially adversely affected. If our liquidity position should become critically inadequate, our ability to continue as a going concern could be threatened. We will realize additional future losses if the proceeds we receive upon liquidation of non-performing assets are less than the fair value of such assets. Non-performing assets are recorded on our financial statements at fair value, as required under GAAP, unless these assets have been specifically identified for liquidation, in which case they are recorded at the lower of cost or estimated net realizable value. In current market conditions, we are likely to realize additional future losses if the proceeds we receive upon dispositions of non-performing assets are less than the recorded fair value of such assets. Many of our borrowers have more than one loan or credit relationship with us. Many of our borrowers have more than one CRE or commercial business loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one commercial loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to, for example, a one-to-four family residential mortgage loan. We could suffer loan losses from a decline in credit quality. We could sustain losses if borrowers, guarantors and related parties fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. We have adopted underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and policies and revised such procedures pursuant to the Order, including the establishment and review of the allowance for credit losses that we believe are appropriate to minimize this risk by assessing the likelihood of nonperformance, tracking loan performance and diversifying our credit portfolio. These policies and procedures, however, may not prevent unexpected losses that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Negative publicity about financial institutions, generally, or about the Bank or the Company, specifically, could damage our reputation and adversely impact our business operations and financial results. Reputation risk, or the risk to our business from negative publicity, is inherent in our business. Negative publicity can result from actual or alleged conduct of financial institutions, generally, or the Company or the Bank, specifically, in any number of activities, including corporate governance actions taken by government regulators in response to those activities. Negative publicity can adversely affect our ability to keep and attract customers and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action, any of which could negatively affect our business operations or financial results. Our profitability is vulnerable to interest rate fluctuations. Our profitability depends substantially upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between the interest earned on assets, such as loans and investment securities, and the interest paid for liabilities, such as savings and time deposits and out-of-market certificates of deposit. Market interest rates for loans, investments, and deposits are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control. Recently, interest rate spreads have generally narrowed due to changing market conditions, policies of various government and regulatory authorities, and competitive pricing pressures, and we cannot predict whether these rate spreads will narrow even further. This narrowing of interest rate spreads could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. At December 31, 2009 we were in an asset sensitive position, which generally means that rising interest rates tend to be beneficial, in the near and long term. Rising and declining interest rates, would typically have the opposite effect on net interest income in an asset-sensitive position. In addition, we cannot predict whether interest rates will continue to remain at present levels. Changes in interest rates may cause significant changes, up or down, in our net interest income. Accordingly, given the current mix and maturity of our assets and liabilities, it is possible that a 23 Table of Contents rapid, significant and prolonged increase or decrease in interest rates could have an adverse impact on our net interest margin. We may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums or remit special assessments that could adversely affect our earnings. Market developments have significantly depleted the FDIC’s Deposit Insurance Fund (“DIF”) and reduced its ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The FDIC’s assessment rates are intended to result in a reserve ratio of at least 1.15%. As of December 31, 2008, the ratio had fallen well below this floor. The FDIC is required to return the DIF to its statutorily mandated minimum reserve ratio of 1.15 percent within eight years, and has undertaken several initiatives to satisfy this requirement. On April 1, 2009, the FDIC modified the risk-based assessments to account for each institution’s unsecured debt, secured liabilities and use of brokered deposits. Starting with the second quarter of 2009, assessment rates were increased and currently range from 7 to 77.5 basis points (annualized). On September 30, 2009, the FDIC collected a one-time special assessment of five basis points of an institution’s assets minus tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009. The amount of the special assessment could not exceed ten basis points times the institution’s assessment base for the second quarter of 2009. In addition, on November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule that requires nearly all FDIC-insured depository institutions to prepay their DIF assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for the next three years. If we are required to pay higher assessment premiums, due to our risk classification or emergency assessments, or additional special assessments in the future, our earnings could be adversely affected. The Company’s ability to pay dividends is limited and we may be unable to pay future dividends. We have suspended dividend payment on our common stock and make no assurances that we will pay any dividends in the future. Any future determination relating to dividend policy will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on a number of factors, including our future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, future prospects, regulatory restrictions, and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant. In addition, our ability to pay dividends is restricted by federal policies and regulations. It is the policy of the Federal Reserve Board that bank holding companies should pay cash dividends on common stock only out of net income available over the past year and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s expected future needs and financial condition. Further, our principal source of funds to pay dividends is cash dividends that we receive from the Bank, and, pursuant to the Order, the Bank is prohibited from paying dividends without the prior written regulatory consent. The Company also anticipates being prohibited from paying dividends to shareholders pursuant to the expected Agreement with the Federal Reserve Board and the DBF. Adverse market conditions and future losses may require us to raise additional capital to support our operations, but that capital may not be available when it is needed, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our financial performance could be materially impaired and we could become subject to further regulatory restriction on our operations, which could in turn decrease significantly or eliminate the value of our securities. Confidential customer information transmitted through the Bank’s online banking service is vulnerable to security breaches and computer viruses, which could expose the Bank to litigation and adversely affect its reputation and ability to generate deposits. The Bank provides its customers with the ability to bank online. The secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet is a critical element of online banking. The Bank’s network could be vulnerable to 24 Table of Contents unauthorized access, computer viruses, phishing schemes, and other security problems. The Bank may be required to spend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches and computer viruses, or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches or viruses. To the extent that the Bank’s activities or the activities of its clients involve the storage and transmission of confidential information, security breaches and viruses could expose the Bank to claims, litigation and other possible liabilities. Any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses could also cause existing clients to lose confidence in the Bank’s systems and could adversely affect its reputation and its ability to generate deposits. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business, which limitations or restrictions could adversely affect our profitability. As a bank holding company, we are primarily regulated by the Federal Reserve Board. Our subsidiary bank is primarily regulated by the FDIC and the DBF. Our compliance with Federal Reserve Board, FDIC, and DBF regulations is costly and may limit our growth and restrict certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. We are also subject to capital requirements of our regulators. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. The rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC that currently apply to us, together with related exchange rules and regulations, have increased the scope, complexity and cost of our corporate governance, reporting, and disclosure practices. Additional legislation or regulations, or amendments to current legislation or regulations, related to corporate governance, reporting, and disclosure may cause us to experience greater compliance costs. Environmental liability associated with lending activities could result in losses. In the course of our business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing our loans. If hazardous substances are discovered on any of these properties, we may be liable to governmental entities or third parties for the costs of remediation of the hazard, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Many environmental laws can impose liability regardless of whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the contamination. In addition, if we arrange for the disposal of hazardous or toxic substances at another site, we may be liable for the costs of cleaning up and removing those substances from the site, even if we neither own no operate the disposal site. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially limit the use of properties that we acquire through foreclosure, reduce their value or limit our ability to sell them in the event of a default on the loans they secure. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. If we fail to retain our key employees, our growth and profitability could be adversely affected. Our success is, and is expected to remain highly dependent on our executive management team, consisting of Edward P. Loomis, Mark A. Stevens, Carol W. Soto, and Brandon L. Mercer. This is particularly true because, as a community bank, we depend on our management team’s ties to the community to generate business. Our growth will continue to place significant demands on our management, and the loss of any such person’s services may have an adverse effect upon our growth and profitability. Our corporate culture has contributed to our success, and if we cannot maintain this culture, we could lose the teamwork and increased productivity fostered by our culture, which could harm our business. We believe that a critical contributor to our success has been our corporate culture, which we believe fosters teamwork and increased productivity. As our organization grows and we are required to implement more complex management structures, we may find it increasingly difficult to maintain the beneficial aspects of our corporate culture. This could negatively impact our future success. 25 Table of Contents Competition from other financial institutions may adversely affect our profitability. The banking business is highly competitive, and we experience strong competition from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds and other financial institutions, which operate in our primary market areas and elsewhere. As of June 30, 2009, 31 commercial banks serve our central Georgia service area with a total of 98 branches, 47 banks serve our coastal Georgia service area with a total of 160 branches, 17 banks serve Lowndes County in Georgia with a total of 38 branches, and 33 banks serve Duval County in Florida with a total of 204 branches. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we have to attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Many of our competitors are well-established and much larger financial institutions. While we believe we can and do successfully compete with these other financial institutions in our markets, we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size and lack of geographic diversification. Although we compete by concentrating our marketing efforts in our primary market areas with local advertisements, personal contacts and greater flexibility in working with local customers, we can give no assurance that this strategy will be successful. Hurricanes or other adverse weather events could negatively affect our local economies or disrupt our operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. The economy in the coastal regions of Georgia and Florida are affected, from time to time, by adverse weather events, particularly hurricanes. Our coastal Georgia and northeast Florida market areas consist primarily of coastal communities, and we cannot predict whether, or to what extent, damage caused by future hurricanes will affect our operations, our customers or the economies in our banking markets. Weather events could cause a decline in loan originations, destruction or decline in the value of properties securing our loans, or an increase in the risks of delinquencies, foreclosures and loan losses, which would adversely affect our results of operations. 26 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 