ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following sets forth the most significant factors that make an investment in our company speculative or risky. If any of the risks described below actually occur or, in certain cases, continue, our business, financial condition or results of operations may suffer. As a result, the value of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business and the value of our common stock. In addition to the following risk factors, please also refer to the section entitled "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements." Risks Related to Our Business Generally We leverage our investments and incur other significant indebtedness, which may reduce our returns, harm our liquidity and cause our financial condition to deteriorate rapidly. We leverage our investments through borrowings, generally through warehouse facilities, repurchase agreements, secured loans, securitizations (including the issuance of CDOs), loans to entities in which we hold interests in pools of assets and other borrowings. We also incur other significant indebtedness from time to time, such as our obligations resulting from the issuance of our Trust Preferred Securities and the issuance of approximately $74.0 million of two series of senior secured notes in connection with the Merger, or the Series A and Series B Notes. Although the Series A and Series B Notes contain covenants relating to the incurrence of indebtedness, we may incur substantial leverage relating to certain investments, including through repurchase agreements used to finance our investments in RMBS. Our indebtedness and the covenants and obligations contained therein could adversely affect our financial health and business and future operations by, among other things, reducing our liquidity, increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions and generally limiting our flexibility, including our ability to obtain certain additional financing we may need to operate, develop and expand our business. Additionally, our return on investments and available cash may be reduced to the extent that changes in market conditions increase the cost of our financing relative to the income that can be derived from the assets acquired. Our debt service payments will reduce available cash. Moreover, our ability to make payments on our debt will depend upon our future operating performance, which is subject to general economic and competitive conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which we cannot control. If the cash flows from our operations are insufficient to service our debt obligations, we may take actions, such as delaying or reducing capital expenditures, attempting to restructure or refinance our debt, selling assets or operations or seeking additional equity capital. Any or all of these actions may not be sufficient to allow us to service our debt obligations. Further, we may be unable to take any of these actions on satisfactory terms, in a timely manner or at all. We may also fail to meet other obligations we owe to the holders of our indebtedness which may result in an event of default with damaging consequences, including risking the loss of some or all of our assets to foreclosure or sale. Our failure to pay our debts or to otherwise fulfill our obligations under the instruments governing our indebtedness could, among other things, render us insolvent or materially adversely affect the market value of our common stock. We leverage certain of our assets through repurchase agreements pursuant to which we are required to pledge additional assets as collateral to our repurchase agreement counterparties (i.e., lenders) when the estimated fair value of the existing pledged collateral under such agreements declines and such lenders demand additional collateral (i.e., initiate a margin call). Margin calls result from a decline in the value of the RMBS collateralizing our repurchase agreements, generally following the monthly principal reduction of such RMBS due to scheduled amortization and prepayments on the underlying mortgages, changes in market interest rates, a decline in market prices affecting our RMBS and other market factors. We may not have the funds available to satisfy any of these calls and may have to sell assets at a time when we might be able to do so on favorable terms or at all, thereby suffering significant losses and harming our liquidity. Credit facility providers and other holders of our indebtedness may require us to maintain a certain amount of uninvested cash, to set aside unlevered assets sufficient to maintain a specified liquidity position to satisfy our collateral obligations or to maintain a certain minimum net worth. Thus, we may not be able to leverage our assets as fully as we would choose, which could reduce our returns and negatively affect our 14 Table of Contents liquidity. If we are unable to meet these collateral obligations, we may be unable to obtain any additional financing, and our financial condition could deteriorate rapidly. We may not be able to obtain future waivers of the minimum net worth covenant contained in the indenture governing our Trust Preferred Securities. In February 2008 and again in November 2008, we obtained waivers of the minimum net worth covenant contained in the indenture governing our Trust Preferred Securities. In July 2009, we amended the minimum net worth covenant to permanently decrease such net worth covenant to $50.0 million and provide that the initial measurement date for compliance therewith be September 30, 2012. We may not be able to comply with the minimum net worth covenant in September 2012 and there is no assurance that the holders of the Trust Preferred Securities will be willing to modify or grant additional waivers of the covenant in the future. In the event that we breach the minimum net worth covenant and are unable to obtain an additional waiver or modify the covenant, we will likely be in default under the indentures governing the Trust Preferred Securities, and the holders thereof may accelerate the outstanding indebtedness thereunder. If that happens, some or all of our assets may be subjected to foreclosure, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and on the value of our common stock. The current prolonged economic slowdown and weakness in the financial markets may impair our investments, reduce our liquidity and harm our operating results. Many of our investments are susceptible to economic slowdowns and recessions, such as those that have recently been experienced in the United States, which could lead to losses on those investments and a decrease in revenues, net income and assets. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in lenders not extending credit to us, all of which could impair our operating results. Overall, during fiscal year 2009, our business environment and that of many of the entities in which we invest has been extremely challenging. There is no assurance that these conditions will improve in the near term or at all. If the economic slowdown and adverse business conditions continue or get worse, we expect our results of operations to be adversely affected. Declines in the fair values of our investments may adversely affect our financial results and credit availability, which may reduce our earnings and liquidity. A rapid decline in the fair value of our assets, such as the declines we experienced in the fourth quarter of 2007 and the first quarter of 2008, may adversely affect us, particularly where we have borrowed money based on the fair value of those assets. In such case, the lenders may require, and have required, us to post additional collateral to support the borrowing. If we cannot post the additional collateral, we may have to rapidly liquidate assets, which we may be unable to do on favorable terms or at all. Even after liquidating assets, we may still be unable to post the required collateral, further harming our liquidity and subjecting us to liability to our lenders for the declines in the fair values of the collateral. A reduction in credit availability may reduce our earnings, liquidity and available cash. Further decreases in the fair value of our RMBS or increases in the prepayment rates thereon may also cause us to sell investment securities which we may be unable to do on favorable terms or at all, which could cause additional liquidity pressures or shortfalls. Declines in the fair value of our investments and inability to generate sufficient cash from operations may adversely affect our ability to maintain adequate liquidity to support our ongoing operations and planned growth. As of December 31, 2009, we had cash and cash equivalents of $48.7 million and $704.8 million in outstanding borrowings. Cash generated from operations and remaining funds available under our existing credit facilities may not provide sufficient liquidity to fund our investment activities, pay fees under our management agreement and pay general corporate expenses. Declines in the fair value of our assets may additionally adversely affect our liquidity. If we are unable to maintain adequate liquidity, we may be unable to support our ongoing operations and planned growth, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. 15 Table of Contents An increase in our borrowing costs relative to the interest we receive on our assets may impair our profitability and thus our available cash. As our repurchase agreements and other short-term borrowings mature, we must either enter into new borrowings or liquidate certain of our investments at times when we might otherwise not choose to do so. Lenders may seek to use a maturity date as an opportune time to demand additional terms or increased collateral requirements that could be adverse to us and harm our operations. Currently, lenders are requiring higher levels of collateral than they have required in the past to support repurchase agreements collateralized by Agency RMBS, and if this continues, it will make our borrowings and use of leverage less attractive and more expensive. An increase in short-term interest rates when we seek new borrowings would reduce the spread between our returns on our assets and the cost of our borrowings. This would reduce the returns on our assets which might reduce earnings and in turn available cash. We generally expect that the interest rates tied to our borrowings will adjust more rapidly than the interest rates tied to the assets in which we invest. Variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. As of December 31, 2009, approximately $196.0 million of our recourse borrowings, primarily borrowings under our Trust Preferred Securities and Series A and Series B Notes, were at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same. We may use interest rate derivatives to hedge the variability of the cash flows associated with our existing or forecasted variable rate borrowings. Although we may enter into additional interest rate swaps, involving the exchange of floating for fixed rate interest payments, to reduce interest rate volatility, we cannot provide assurances that we will be able to do so or that such swaps will be effective. Because the value we record for certain investments is based on estimates of fair value made by management, we may be unable to realize the value we recorded upon a sale of these investments. On January 1, 2008, we adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, Accounting Standards Codification, or ASC, Topic 825—Financial Instruments, or ASC Topic 825. As a result, we carry all of our RMBS and all swaps previously designated as a hedge at fair value with changes in fair value recorded directly into earnings. Because of the inherent uncertainty in the fair value of certain investments, management's determination of fair value may differ materially from the value that would have been used if a market for these securities existed. Some of our investments are securities that are not publicly traded. The fair value of such investments is not readily determinable. Depending on the accounting classification, these investments can be carried at fair value, lower of cost or market, or amortized cost with a loan loss reserve. Each of these carrying values is based on an estimate of fair value. Management reports estimated fair value of these investments quarterly. Because such valuations are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these securities existed. Our stock price could fall if our carrying values based on determinations of fair value of these investments are materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon their disposal. Quarterly results may fluctuate and may not be indicative of future quarterly performance. Our quarterly operating results could fluctuate; therefore you should not rely on past quarterly results to be indicative of our performance in future quarters. Factors that could cause quarterly operating results to fluctuate include, among other things, variations in quarterly fair value determinations of our investments, variations in our investment origination volume, variations in the timing of repayments, market conditions that result in increased costs of funds and the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. 16 Table of Contents DFR and DCM are the subject of information requests by the SEC in an investigation that could result in SEC proceedings against us. Pursuant to a formal order of investigation, the SEC is investigating certain practices associated with the offer, purchase or sale of Collateralized Mortgage Obligations and Real Estate Mortgage Investment Conduits, or REMICs, and the creation of re-REMICs. In connection with this investigation, the SEC has requested and obtained certain information from DFR and DCM relating to certain mortgage securities transactions effected by DCM for DFR in 2005 and 2006. It is possible that we could be subject to an SEC enforcement or other proceeding relating to the transactions. In that event, we could be subject to significant monetary fines or other damages or penalties whether by enforcement action or via consensual settlement proceedings, and DCM could incur reputational damage as an investment manager, which could reduce its ability to retain existing clients or investors or obtain new clients or investors. In addition, the continuation of the investigation could reduce the amount of time and attention that management can provide to our business and generate further significant legal costs. Our business could be impaired if we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel. As a self-managed company, we depend on the diligence, experience, skill and network of business contacts of our executive officers and employees for the evaluation, negotiation, structuring and monitoring of our investments. Our business depends on the expertise of our personnel and their ability to work together as an effective team. Our success depends substantially on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Due to the adverse credit market environment, however, we reduced our workforce substantially in 2008. This reduction in workforce may reduce employee morale and create concern among potential and existing employees about job security, which may lead to difficulty in hiring and increased turnover in our current workforce and place undue strain upon our operational resources. We cannot assure you that we will not have to make further workforce reductions and that we will not experience employee resignations in the future. If we are unable to maintain diligent, experienced and skilled employees, our ability to respond to unexpected challenges may be impaired, and we may be unable to take advantage of new opportunities. The inability to retain and recruit qualified personnel could affect our ability to provide an acceptable level of service to our clients and funds and our ability to attract new clients, including investors in our funds, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business. We may change our investment strategy without stockholder consent, and our Board does not approve each investment decision made by management. We have not adopted a policy as to the amounts to be invested in any of our asset classes, including securities rated below investment grade. We may change our investment strategy, including the percentage of assets that may be invested in any particular asset class, or in a single issuer, at any time, without the consent of, or notice to, our stockholders or, in certain cases, our Board. We may decide to invest in assets that are riskier than the investments we are currently targeting. A change in our asset allocation could result in our investing in asset classes different from those described herein and may also entail significant transition costs. A change in our investment strategy may increase our exposure to interest rate risk or default risk or may lower our expected rate of return and net spread, all of which could reduce our earnings, assets and stock price. We may enter into warehouse agreements in connection with our planned investment in the equity securities of CDOs or DCM's planned management of CDOs, and if the CDO investments are not consummated, the warehoused collateral will be sold, and we may be required to bear any loss resulting from such sale. In connection with our investment in CDOs or DCM's planned management of new CDOs, we may enter into warehouse agreements with warehouse providers such as investment banks or other financial institutions, pursuant to which the warehouse provider will initially finance the purchase of the collateral that will be ultimately transferred to the CDO. DCM will typically select the collateral. If the CDO transaction is not consummated, the warehouse provider will liquidate the warehoused collateral and we may be required to pay any amount by which the purchase price of the collateral exceeds its sale price and may be liable for certain of the expenses associated with the warehouse or planned CDO, subject to any negotiated caps on our exposure. In addition, regardless of whether the CDO transaction is consummated, if any of the warehoused collateral is sold before the consummation, we may have to bear any resulting loss on the sale. The amount at risk in 17 Table of Contents connection with the warehouse agreements supporting our investments in CDOs will vary and may not be limited to the amount that we have agreed to invest in the equity securities of the CDO. Although we would expect to complete the CDO transaction within about six to nine months after the warehouse agreement is signed, we may not be able to complete the transaction within the expected time period or at all. Failure to procure adequate capital and funding would hurt our results and reduce the price of our stock. We depend upon the availability of adequate funding and capital for our operations. The failure to secure acceptable financing could reduce our income, as our investments would no longer generate the same level of net interest income due to the lack of funding or increase in funding costs. A reduction in our net income would impair our liquidity and our available cash. We cannot assure our stockholders that any, or sufficient, funding or capital will be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable to us. If we cannot obtain sufficient funding on acceptable terms, there may be a negative impact on the market price of our common stock and our current financial condition. Moreover, our ability to timely raise capital on commercially reasonable terms is further impaired because the number of securities that we are currently permitted to offer using a Form S-3 registration statements is limited to 1/3 of the aggregate market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates, or our "public float", for any twelve-month period. As of December 31, 2009, our public float was approximately $29.0 million. Our ability to use Form S-3 registration statements will remain limited until our public float is equal or greater than $75.0 million (calculated as set forth in Form S-3 and SEC rules and regulations). Alternative means of raising additional capital through sales of our securities, including through the use of a Form S-1 registration statement, may be more costly and time-consuming than registration on Form S-3. We may in the future issue shares of additional capital stock to raise proceeds for a wide variety of purposes, which could dilute and therefore reduce the value of our existing outstanding capital stock. We may seek to issue shares of our capital stock, either in public offerings, private transactions or both, to raise additional capital. Such issuances could substantially dilute the stock of our existing stockholders without corresponding increase in value. We may raise capital for a wide variety of purposes, such as implementing our business plan and repaying indebtedness. Our management will have broad discretion over how we use the proceeds of any capital raise. We may not be able to raise capital at the time or times that we wish, in the amounts we wish, or on the terms or at the prices we consider favorable to us and our stockholders. We may use the proceeds of any future offering in ways in which holders of our capital stock disagree and that yield less than our expected return, or no return at all, which could result in substantial losses to us. Ownership limitations in our charter may restrict change of control or business combination opportunities in which our stockholders might receive a premium for their shares. Our charter contains certain restrictions on acquisitions and dispositions of our securities that are intended to preserve the potential tax benefits associated with accumulated net operating losses, or NOLs, net capital losses, or NCLs, and certain other tax attributes by preventing transfers of our securities that could trigger an "ownership change" for purposes of sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code. We refer to these restrictions as our "section 382 ownership limit." The section 382 ownership limit generally prohibits any direct or indirect sale, transfer, assignment, exchange, issuance, grant, redemption, repurchase, conveyance, pledge or other disposition of shares of our common stock or rights or options to purchase our common stock or any other interests that would be treated as stock under the income tax regulations promulgated under the Code, if as a result of such sale, transfer, assignment, exchange, issuance, grant, redemption, repurchase, conveyance, pledge or other disposition, (i) any person or group becomes a 5% shareholder (as defined in the Code), which generally includes a person or group that beneficially owns 5% or more of the market value of the total outstanding shares of our common stock or (ii) the percentage of our common stock owned by a 5% shareholder (as defined in the Code) would be increased. No assurance can be provided that the section 382 ownership limit will be successful in preventing an "ownership change" within the meaning of sections 382 and 383 of the Code, and we may lose all or most of the anticipated tax benefits associated with our prior losses. In addition, the section 382 ownership limit may have the effect of inhibiting or impeding a change in control not approved by our Board and, notwithstanding 18 Table of Contents its purpose, could adversely affect our stockholders' ability to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for our common stock in connection with such a transaction. The section 382 ownership limit may also impede the assumption of control by a holder of a large bloc of common stock and the removal of incumbent directors and management, even if such removal may be beneficial to all of our stockholders. In addition, since our Board can grant exemptions from the section 382 ownership limit, our Board has significant discretion over whether a potential acquirer's efforts to acquire a large interest in us will be successful. Consequently, the section 382 ownership limit may not succeed in protecting anticipated tax benefits and could impede transactions that would otherwise benefit our stockholders, which could negatively affect the liquidity of our stock and otherwise decrease the market price of our common stock. Future classes of capital stock or other securities may impose, and our currently outstanding Trust Preferred Securities and Series A and Series B Notes do impose, significant covenants and obligations on us and our operations. Our Trust Preferred Securities and Series A and Series B Notes impose, and future classes of capital stock or other securities may impose, certain covenants and obligations on us and our operations. Failure to abide by such covenants or satisfy such obligations could trigger certain rights for the holders of such securities, which could have a material and adverse effect on us and impair our operating results. In addition, breaches of covenants may result in decreased revenues if investors in the accounts managed by DCM withdraw their investments. See "Risks Related to Our Investment Management Segment" below for addition detail on investors' withdrawal rights. Loss of our 1940 Act exemption would adversely affect us and reduce the market price of our shares. To avoid regulation under the 1940 Act, we have historically relied on section 3(a)(1)(C) for our exclusion from the registration requirements of the 1940 Act. This provision requires that we neither engage nor propose to engage in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities and not own or propose to acquire "investment securities" having a value exceeding 40% of the value of our total assets on an unconsolidated basis, or the 40% Test. "Investment securities" excludes U.S. government securities and securities of majority-owned subsidiaries that are not themselves investment companies and are not relying on the exception from the definition of investment company under section 3(c)(1) or section 3(c)(7) of the 1940 Act. DFR is a holding company that conducts its business through wholly-owned subsidiaries, including DC LLC. DC LLC has historically relied on Section 3(c)(5)(c). Section 3(c)(5)(C) provides an exclusion from registration for entities who are "primarily engaged in purchasing or otherwise acquiring . . . interests in real estate." Any entity relying on section 3(c)(5)(C) for its 1940 Act exemption must have at least 55% of its portfolio invested in qualifying assets, which in general must consist of mortgage loans, mortgage backed securities that represent the entire ownership in a pool of mortgage loans and other liens on and interests in real estate, and another 25% of its portfolio invested in other real estate-related assets. As a result of the sales in 2007 and 2008 of substantially all of our non-Agency RMBS and a large portion of our Agency RMBS, DC LLC no longer complied with the requirements of section 3(c)(5)(C). Accordingly, our investment in DC LLC became an investment security. As a result, investment securities comprised more than 40% of our assets. Because neither DFR nor DC LLC could rely on its historical exclusion from regulation as an investment company, DFR and DC LLC relied upon Rule 3a-2, which provides a safe harbor exemption, not to exceed one year, for companies that have a bona fide intent to be engaged in an excluded activity but that temporarily fail to meet the requirements for another exemption or exclusion from registration as an investment company. As required by the rule, after we learned that we were out of compliance, our Board promptly adopted a resolution declaring our bona fide intent to be engaged in excluded activities. Rule 3a-2's temporary exemption lasts only up to a year, which for us expired in early March 2009. DFR and DC LLC have restored their respective assets to compliance. DC LLC transferred its mortgage assets to a subsidiary that relies upon Section 3(c)(5)(C), and DC LLC relies on the Section 3(a)(1)(C) exclusion, which has restored DFR's compliance with the Section 3(a)(1)(C) exclusion. Reliance upon Rule 3a-2 is permitted only once every three years. As a result, if we fail to meet our current exemption within three years and another exemption is not available, we may be required to register as 19 Table of Contents an investment company, or we may be required to acquire and/or dispose of assets in order to qualify for an exemption. Any such asset acquisitions or dispositions may include assets that DFR or DC LLC would not acquire or dispose of in the ordinary course of business or may be at unfavorable prices. If we are required to register under the 1940 Act, we would become subject to substantial regulation with respect to our capital structure (including our ability to use leverage), management, operations, transactions with affiliated persons (as defined in the 1940 Act), and portfolio composition, including restrictions with respect to diversification and industry concentration and other matters. Accordingly, registration under the 1940 Act could limit our ability to follow our current investment and financing strategies and result in a decline in the price of our common stock. Our organizational documents do not limit our ability to enter into new lines of business, and we may enter into new businesses, make future strategic investments or acquisitions or enter into joint ventures, each of which may result in additional risks and uncertainties in our business. Our organizational documents do not limit us to our current business lines. Accordingly, we may pursue growth through strategic investments, acquisitions or joint ventures, which may include entering into new lines of business or modifying our current lines of business. To the extent we make strategic investments or acquisitions, enter into joint ventures, or enter into a new or modified line of business, we may face numerous risks and uncertainties, including risks associated with (i) the required investment of capital and other resources, (ii) the possibility that we have insufficient expertise to engage in such activities profitably or without incurring inappropriate amounts of risk, (iii) combining or integrating operational and management systems and controls, (iv) compliance with applicable regulatory requirements including those required under the 1940 Act and (v) possible new covenants and governance obligations that could be stringent and difficult to comply with. Entry into certain lines of business may subject us to new laws and regulations with which we are not familiar, or from which we are currently exempt, and may lead to increased litigation and regulatory risk. If a new business or joint venture generates insufficient revenue or if we are unable to efficiently manage our expanded operations, our results of operations will be adversely affected. In the case of joint ventures, we may also be subject to additional risks and uncertainties in that we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to, systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control. The NASDAQ may delist our securities, which could limit investors' ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our common stock began trading on the NASDAQ on December 7, 2009. We cannot assure you that our common stock will continue to be listed on the NASDAQ as we may not meet continued listing standards, such as income from continuing operations and $1.00 per share minimum trading price. If the NASDAQ delists our securities from trading, we could face significant consequences including: •a limited availability for market quotations for our securities; •reduced liquidity with respect to our securities; •a determination that our common stock is a "penny stock" which would require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly result in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; •limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and •a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. As a result, holders of our common stock may be unable to sell their shares at a price equal to or greater than that which such stockholders paid, if at all, and investors could lose some or all of their investment. The accounting rules applicable to certain of our transactions are highly complex and require the application of significant judgment and assumptions by our management. In addition, changes in accounting interpretations or assumptions could impact our financial statements. Accounting rules for transfers of financial assets, hedging transactions, securitization transactions and other aspects of our operations are highly complex and require the application of judgment and assumptions by management. These complexities could lead to a delay in the preparation of our financial information. In addition, changes in accounting rules, interpretations or assumptions could materially impact the presentation, disclosure and useability of our financial statements. 20 Table of Contents Failure to develop effective business continuity plans could disrupt our operations and cause financial losses. We operate in an industry that is highly dependent on information systems and technology. We depend to a substantial degree on the availability of our office facilities and the proper functioning of our computer and telecommunications systems. Although we have established a significant disaster recovery program, a disaster, such as water damage to our office, an explosion or a prolonged loss of electrical power, could materially interrupt our business operations and cause material financial loss, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability, which, in turn, could depress our stock price. Additionally, we cannot assure holders of our stock that the cost of maintaining those services and technology will not materially increase from its current level. Such an increase in costs related to these information systems could have a material and adverse effect on us. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. We compete for investments with various other investors, such as other public and private funds, commercial and investment banks and commercial finance and other companies. Many of our competitors are substantially larger than us, have considerably more financial and other resources and may have investment objectives that overlap with ours, which may create competition for investment opportunities with limited supply. Some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us, and may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. The competitive pressures we face could impair our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may affect the market for our stock, the industry in which we conduct our operations and our profitability. Terrorist attacks may harm our results of operations and the investment of our stockholders. We have no assurance that there will not be further terrorist attacks against the United States or U.S. businesses. These attacks or armed conflicts may directly impact the property underlying our ABS securities or the securities markets in general. These attacks could also severely harm our asset management operations. Losses resulting from these types of events are generally uninsurable. More generally, any of these events could reduce consumer confidence and spending or increase volatility in the United States and worldwide financial markets and economy. Adverse economic conditions have a negative impact on the securities markets in general, which could reduce our operating results and revenues and increase the volatility of our holdings. Uninsured losses or losses in excess of our insurance coverage could adversely affect our financial condition and our cash flows, and we may also incur significantly increased costs and maintain lower coverage in the future thereby increasing our risk of loss. We currently maintain general liability, fire, business interruption, director and officer liability, errors and omissions and umbrella liability coverage. Despite our attempts to insure against a variety of losses, we may be subjected to losses from numerous events which are not insured or insurable. For example, losses resulting from terrorist attacks and armed conflicts are generally uninsurable. In addition, we may determine not to insure against a particular loss for any number of reasons. For example, unlike many companies, we do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our executive officers or significant employees. Even if we insure ourselves against the effects of a particular event, we may not have adequate insurance to cover our losses. Any significant losses that are not recoverable under our insurance policies could seriously impair our business and financial condition. In addition, our insurance policies must be renewed annually. We may be unable to obtain insurance in the future upon renewal or otherwise. Even if insurance is available, it may not be available on acceptable economic terms and we may determine to forgo purchasing that insurance thereby subjecting ourselves to additional risk of loss. To the extent we must pay unexpectedly large amounts for insurance, we could suffer reduced earnings that could harm our operating results. In the event that we are unable to renew our current insurance policies at the same or similar costs, we may choose to enter into new insurance policies that may require significantly increased premium payments. 21 Table of Contents This increased cost of insurance could decrease our cash flow and have an adverse effect on our operating results. Further, in the event we are unable to obtain director and officer liability insurance in the future, or determine to accept reduced director and officer liability coverage because of the cost of obtaining that coverage, our board members and executive officers may face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could also harm our business. Maryland anti-takeover statutes may restrict business combination opportunities. As a Maryland corporation, we are subject to various provisions of Maryland law which impose restrictions and require that specified procedures be followed with respect to the acquisition of "control shares" representing at least ten percent of our aggregate voting power and certain takeover offers and business combinations, including, but not limited to, combinations with persons who own one-tenth or more of our outstanding shares. While we have elected to "opt out" of the control share acquisition statute, our Board has the right to rescind the election at any time without notice to our stockholders. Risks Related to Our Investment Management Segment DCM's revenues fluctuate based on the amount or value of client assets, which could decrease for various reasons including investment losses and withdrawal of capital. DCM's success depends on its ability to earn investment advisory fees from the client accounts it manages. Such fees generally consist of payments based on the amount of assets in the account (management fees) and on the profits earned by the account or the returns to certain investors in the account (performance fees). If there is a reduction in an account's assets, there will be a corresponding reduction in DCM's management fees from the account and a likely reduction in DCM's performance fees (if any) relating to the account, since the smaller the account's asset base, the smaller the potential profits earned by the account. There could be a reduction in an account's assets as the result of investment losses in the account, the withdrawal by investors of some or all of their capital in the account or forced liquidation of the assets in the account. Investors in the accounts managed by DCM have various types of withdrawal rights, ranging from the right of investors in separately managed accounts to withdraw any or all of their capital on a daily basis and the right of investors in CDOs to terminate the CDO or DCM as the CDO's manager in specified situations. Investors in investment funds and separately managed accounts might withdraw capital for many reasons, including their dissatisfaction with the account's returns or volatility, adverse publicity regarding DCM, adverse financial developments at DCM or DFR, DCM's loss of key personnel, errors in reporting to investors account values or account performance, other matters resulting from problems in DCM's systems technology, investors' desire to invest their capital elsewhere, and their need (in the case of investors that are themselves investment funds) for the capital to fund withdrawals by their investors. DCM could experience a major loss of account assets, and thus advisory fee revenue, at any time. DCM's performance fees may increase the volatility of our cash flows, which could depress our stock price. Historically, a significant portion of DCM's revenues has been derived from performance fees on the various accounts that DCM manages. Performance fees are generally based on the profits DCM generates for client accounts or the returns to certain investors in those accounts. With respect to DCM's CDOs, DCM is entitled to performance fees only if the returns on the related portfolios exceed agreed-upon periodic or cumulative return targets. Performance fees, if any, will vary from period to period in relation to volatility in investment returns, causing DCM's cash flows to be more volatile than if it did not manage assets on a performance fee basis. The recent credit market dislocations have significantly increased the volatility of the investment funds managed by DCM and decreased the likelihood that DCM will earn performance fees. Also, alternative asset managers typically derive a greater portion of their revenues from performance fees than traditional asset managers, thus increasing the potential volatility in DCM's cash flows. The volatility in DCM's cash flows and any further decrease in performance fees could harm our revenue and may depress our stock price. 22 Table of Contents Poor investment performance could lead to a loss of clients and a decline in DCM's revenues. Investment performance is a key factor for the retention of client assets, the growth of DCM's AUM and the generation of investment advisory fee revenue. Poor investment performance, including downgrades of ratings assigned to DCM or the portfolios it manages, could impair DCM's revenues and growth because: •existing clients might withdraw funds in favor of better performing products, which would result in lower investment advisory fees for DCM; •DCM's subordinate management fees for a CDO may be deferred or never received; •DCM's ability to attract funds from existing and new clients might diminish; and •DCM might earn minimal or no performance fees. The failure of DCM's investment products to perform well both on an absolute basis and in relation to competing products, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on DCM's business and our financial performance. DCM derives much of its revenues from contracts that may be terminated on short notice. DCM derives a substantial portion of its revenues from investment management agreements with accounts that generally have the right to remove DCM as the investment advisor of the account and replace it with a substitute investment advisor under certain conditions. Some of these investment management agreements may be terminated for various reasons, including failure to follow the account's investment guidelines, fraud, breach of fiduciary duty and gross negligence, or, alternatively, may not be renewed. With respect to DCM's agreements with some of the CDOs it manages, DCM can be removed without cause by investors that hold a specified amount of the securities issued by the CDO. All of DCM's agreements with CDOs allow investors that hold a specified amount of securities issued by the CDO to remove DCM for "cause," which typically includes DCM's violation of the management agreement or the CDO's indenture, DCM's breach of its representations and warranties under the agreement, DCM's bankruptcy or insolvency, fraud or a criminal offense by DCM or its employees, and the failure of certain of the CDO's performance tests. These "cause" provisions may be triggered from time to time with respect to our CDOs, and as a result DCM could be removed as the investment manager of such CDOs. DCM's investment advisory agreements with separately managed accounts are typically terminable by the client without penalty on 30 days' notice or less. DCM has experienced and may continue to experience declines in and deferrals of management fee income from its CDOs due to defaults, downgrades and depressed market values with respect to the collateral underlying such CDOs. Under the investment management agreements between DCM and the CDOs it manages, payment of DCM's management fees is generally subject to a "waterfall" structure. Pursuant to these "waterfalls," all or a portion of DCM's fees may be deferred if, among other things, the CDOs do not generate sufficient cash flows to pay the required interest on the notes they have issued to investors and certain expenses they have incurred. This could occur if the issuers of the collateral underlying the CDOs default on or defer payments of principal or interest relating to such collateral. Due to the continued severe levels of defaults and delinquencies on the assets underlying certain of the CDOs, DCM has experienced declines in and deferrals of its management fees. If such defaults and delinquencies continue or increase, DCM will experience continued declines in and deferrals of its management fees. Additionally, all or a portion of DCM's management fees from the CDOs that it manages may be deferred if such CDOs fail to meet their over-collateralization requirements. Pursuant to the "waterfall" structure discussed above, such failures generally require cash flows to be diverted to amortize the most senior class of notes prior to paying a portion of DCM's management fees. Defaulted assets and assets that have been severely downgraded are generally carried at a reduced value for purposes of the over-collateralization tests. In some CDOs, these assets are required to be carried at their market values for purposes of the over-collateralization tests. Due to exceptionally high levels of defaults, severe downgrades and depressed market values of the collateral underlying the CDOs managed by DCM, certain of those CDOs have breached their 23 Table of Contents over-collateralization tests, and DCM has therefore experienced, and may continue to experience, declines in and deferrals of its management fees. There may be other structural protections built into the CDOs that DCM manages that could result in the decline in or deferral of DCM's management fees in the event that the CDO experiences a period of declining performance or increased defaults. DCM could lose management fee income from the CDOs it manages or client AUM as a result of the triggering of certain structural protections built into such CDOs. The CDOs managed by DCM generally contain structural provisions including, but not limited to, over-collateralization requirements and/or market value triggers that are meant to protect investors from deterioration in the credit quality of the underlying collateral pool. In certain cases, breaches of these structural provisions can lead to events of default under the indentures governing the CDOs and, ultimately, acceleration of the notes issued by the CDO and liquidation of the underlying collateral. In the event of a liquidation of the collateral underlying a CDO, DCM will lose client AUM and therefore management fees, which could have a material and adverse effect on DCM's earnings. Four of the CDOs of asset backed securities that DCM manages have triggered events of default primarily resulting from downgrades of their underlying collateral. The notes issued by these two of these CDOs have been accelerated. However, pursuant to the indentures governing these CDOs, the CDOs will not be liquidated unless either the proceeds of such liquidation will be sufficient to pay off all of the notes issued by the CDO, the accrued management fees and certain administrative expenses or the holders of a supermajority (or, in the case of one of the CDOs that has triggered an event of default but not an acceleration of notes, a majority) of the notes direct the liquidation. We could incur losses due to trading errors. DCM could make errors in placing transaction orders for client accounts, such as purchasing a security for an account whose investment guidelines prohibit the account from holding the security, purchasing an unintended amount of the security, or placing a buy order when DCM intended to place a sell order, or vice-versa. If the transaction resulted in a loss for the account, DCM might be required to reimburse the account for the loss. Such reimbursements could be substantial. It is also possible that we could be subject to intentional misconduct by our employees or others that could result in severe negative consequences. These errors and misconduct could affect trades on behalf of DFR, which could exacerbate the adverse financial impact on us. The loss of key portfolio managers and other personnel could harm DCM's business. DCM generally assigns the management of its investment products to specific teams, consisting of DCM portfolio management and other personnel, many of whom are not bound by employment agreements. The loss of a particular member or members of such a team—for example, because of resignation, retirement or termination—could cause investors in the product to withdraw, to the extent they have withdrawal rights, all or a portion of their investment in the product, and adversely affect the marketing of the product to new investors and the product's performance. In the case of certain CDOs, DCM can be removed as investment advisor upon its loss of specified key employees. In the case of certain other accounts, investors may have the right to redeem their investments upon DCM's loss of specified key employees. In addition to the loss of specific portfolio management team members, the loss of one or more members of DCM's senior management involved in supervising the portfolio teams could have similar adverse effects on DCM's investment products. DCM may need to offer new investment strategies and products in order to continue to generate revenue. The segments of the asset management industry in which DCM operates are subject to rapid change. Investment strategies and products that had historically been attractive to investors may lose their appeal for various reasons. Thus, strategies and products that have generated fee revenue for DCM in the past may fail to do so in the future. In such case, DCM would have to develop new strategies and products in order to retain investors or replace withdrawing investors with new investors. It could be both expensive and difficult for DCM to develop new strategies and products, and DCM may not be successful in this regard. In addition, alternative asset management products represent a substantially 24 Table of Contents smaller segment of the overall asset management industry than traditional asset management products (such as many bond mutual funds). If DCM is unable to expand its offerings beyond alternative asset management products, this could inhibit its growth and harm its competitive position in the investment management industry. Changes in the fixed income markets could adversely affect DCM. DCM's success depends largely on the attractiveness to institutional investors of investing in the fixed income markets, and changes in those markets could significantly reduce the appeal of DCM's investment products to such investors. Such changes could include increased volatility in the prices of fixed income instruments, periods of illiquidity in the fixed income trading markets, changes in the taxation of fixed income instruments, significant changes in the "spreads" in the fixed income markets (the amount by which the yields on particular fixed income instruments exceed the yields on benchmark U.S. Treasury securities or other indexes) and the lack of arbitrage opportunities between U.S. Treasury securities and their related instruments (such as interest rate swap and futures contracts). The fixed income markets can be highly volatile, and the prices of fixed income instruments may fluctuate for many reasons beyond DCM's control or ability to anticipate, including economic and political events and terrorism. Any adverse changes in investor interest in the fixed income markets could reduce DCM's AUM and therefore our revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and stock price. Changes in CDO spreads and the current market environment could continue to make it difficult for DCM to launch new CDOs. The ability to launch new CDOs is dependent, in part, on the amount by which the interest earned on the collateral held by the CDO exceeds the interest payable by the CDO on the debt obligations it issues to investors, as well as other factors. If these "spreads" are not wide enough, the proposed CDO will not be attractive to investors and thus cannot be launched. There may be sustained periods when such spreads will not be sufficient for DCM to launch new CDO products, which could materially impair DCM's business. Since late-2007, there has been a dislocation in the credit market that has significantly stalled CDO origination. This disruption may continue into 2010 and, potentially, for a significantly longer period of time. Prolonged dislocation of these markets could materially and adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition. DCM depends on third-party distribution channels to market its CDOs and anticipates developing third-party distribution channels to market its investment funds. DCM's CDO management services are marketed to institutions that organize and act as selling or placement agents for CDOs. The potential investor base for CDOs is limited, and DCM's ability to access clients is highly dependent on access to these selling and placement agents. We cannot assure holders of our capital stock that these channels will be accessible to DCM. The inability to have such access could have a material and adverse effect on DCM's earnings. DCM's investment fund and separately managed account management services are marketed directly to existing and prospective investors. Although DCM has not historically relied on third party distributors as a source of new business for its investment funds and separately managed accounts, DCM expects to develop third party relationships in the future as it expands into attractive markets, such as pension funds, where consultant relationships are critical. However, DCM may be unable to develop such third party relationships. DCM's inability to develop such distributor relationships could have a material and adverse effect on the expansion of its investment fund and separately managed accounts business. The fixed income alternative asset management industry is highly competitive, and DCM may lose client assets due to competition from other asset managers that have greater resources than DCM or that are able to offer services and products at more competitive prices. The alternative asset management industry is very competitive. Many firms offer similar and additional investment management products and services to the same types of clients that DCM targets. DCM currently focuses almost exclusively on fixed income securities and related financial instruments in managing client 25 Table of Contents accounts. It has limited experience in equity securities. This is in contrast to numerous other asset managers with comparable AUM, which have significant background and experience in both the equity and debt markets and thus are more diversified. In addition, many of DCM's competitors have or may in the future develop greater financial and other resources, more extensive distribution capabilities, more effective marketing strategies, more attractive investment vehicle structures and broader name recognition. DCM's competitors may be able to use these resources and capabilities to place DCM at a competitive disadvantage in retaining AUM and adding new assets. Also, DCM may be at a disadvantage in competing with other asset managers that are subject to less regulation and are thus less restricted in their client solicitation and portfolio management activities, and DCM may be competing for non-U.S. clients with asset managers that are based in the jurisdiction of the prospective client's domicile. Because barriers to entry into the alternative asset management business are relatively low, DCM may face increased competition from many new entrants into DCM's relatively limited market of providing fixed income asset management services to institutional clients. Additionally, if other asset managers offer services and products at more competitive prices than DCM, DCM may not be able to maintain its current fee structure. Historically DCM has competed primarily on the performance of its products and not on the level of its investment management fees relative to those of its competitors. In recent years, however, despite the fact that alternative asset managers typically charge higher fees than traditional managers, particularly with respect to investment funds and similar products, there has been a trend toward lower fees in the investment management industry generally. In order to maintain its fee structure in a competitive environment, DCM must be able to continue to provide clients with investment returns and service that make investors willing to pay DCM's fees. DCM might not succeed in providing investment returns and service that will allow it to maintain its current fee structure. Fee reductions on existing or future business could impair DCM's profit margins and results of operations. DCM's failure to comply with investment guidelines set by its clients or the provisions of the management agreement and other agreements to which it is a party could result in damage awards against DCM and a loss of AUM, either of which could cause our earnings to decline. As an investment advisor, DCM has a fiduciary duty to its clients. When clients retain DCM to manage assets on their behalf, they may specify certain guidelines regarding investment allocation and strategy that DCM is required to observe in the management of its portfolios. In addition, DCM will be required to comply with the obligations set forth in the management agreements and other agreements to which it is a party. DCM's failure to comply with these guidelines or the terms of these agreements could result in losses to clients, investors in a fund or other parties, and such parties could seek to recover such losses from DCM. In addition, losses could result in the client withdrawing its assets from DCM's management, the fund terminating DCM's management agreement or investors withdrawing their capital from the fund. Although DCM has installed procedures and utilizes the services of experienced administrators, accountants and lawyers to assist it in adhering to these guidelines and the terms of these agreements, and maintains limited insurance to protect itself in the case of client losses, we cannot assure that such precautions or insurance will protect us from potential liabilities. The occurrence of any of these events could cause our earnings or stock price to decline. DCM could lose client assets as the result of adverse publicity. Asset managers such as DCM can be particularly vulnerable to losing clients because of adverse publicity. Asset managers are generally regarded as fiduciaries, and if they fail to adhere at all times to a high level of honesty, fair dealing and professionalism they can incur large and rapid losses of client assets. Accordingly, a relatively small perceived lapse in this regard, especially if it resulted in a regulatory investigation or enforcement proceeding, could materially harm DCM's business. 26 Table of Contents Changes in laws, regulations or government policies affecting DCM's businesses could limit its revenues, increase its costs of doing business and materially and adversely affect its business. DCM's business is subject to extensive government regulation. This regulation is primarily at the federal level, through regulation by the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, or the Investment Advisers Act, and regulation by the CFTC under the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended. DCM is also regulated by state agencies. The Investment Advisers Act imposes numerous obligations on investment advisers, including anti-fraud prohibitions, advertising and custody requirements, disclosure obligations, compliance program duties and trading restrictions. The CFTC regulates commodity futures and option markets and imposes numerous obligations on the industry. DCM is registered with the CFTC as a commodity trading advisor and certain of its employees are registered with the CFTC as "associated persons." If DCM fails to comply with applicable laws or regulations, DCM could be subject to fines, censure, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of its registration as an investment adviser, commodity trading advisor or commodity pool operator, any of which could cause our earnings or stock price to decline. The regulations to which DCM's businesses are subject are designed to protect its clients, investors in its funds and other third parties and to ensure the integrity of the financial markets. These regulations are not designed to protect our stockholders. Recently, significant legislative and regulatory measures have been proposed by U.S. governmental authorities in response to the recent financial market dislocations and economic downturn. Although it is likely that DCM will be subject to increased regulation in the future, we cannot predict whether or when such regulation may be enacted or what effect, if any, such regulation could have on DCM's business, results of operations or financial condition. However, any changes in laws, regulations or government policies could limit DCM's revenues, increase its costs of doing business and materially and adversely affect its business. The non-U.S. domiciled investment funds that DCM manages are regulated in the jurisdiction of their domicile. Changes in the laws or government policies of these foreign jurisdictions could limit DCM's revenues from these funds, increase DCM's costs of doing business in these jurisdictions and materially adversely affect DCM's business. Furthermore, if we expand our business into additional foreign jurisdictions or establish additional offices or subsidiaries overseas, we could become subject to additional non-U.S. laws, regulations and government policies. The level of investor participation in DCM's products may also be affected by the regulatory and self-regulatory requirements and restrictions applicable to DCM's products and investors, the financial reporting requirements imposed on DCM's investors and financial intermediaries, and the tax treatment of DCM's products. Adverse changes in any of these areas may result in a loss of existing investors or difficulties in attracting new investors. Risks Related to Our Principal Investing Segment We may not realize gains or income from our investments. We seek to generate both current income and capital appreciation, but our assets may not appreciate in value (and may decline), and the debt securities may default on interest or principal payments. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains or income from our investments, and the gains that we do realize may not be enough to offset our losses. Any income that we do realize may not be sufficient to offset our expenses. The lack of liquidity in our investments may impair our results. We invest in securities that are not publicly traded. Some of these securities may be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or may be less liquid than publicly traded securities for other reasons. This may make it difficult for us to liquidate such investments if the need arises. In addition, if we must liquidate all or a portion of our investments quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded the investments. We may face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a business entity if we have material non-public information regarding the issuer. 27 Table of Contents We will lose money on our repurchase transactions if the counterparty to the transaction defaults on its obligation to resell the underlying security back to us at the end of the transaction term, or if the value of the underlying security has declined as of the end of that term or if we default on our obligations under the repurchase agreement. We obtain a significant portion of our funding for our Principal Investing Portfolio through repurchase facilities. When we engage in a repurchase transaction, we generally sell securities to the transaction counterparty and receive cash from the counterparty. The counterparty is obligated to resell the securities back to us at the end of the term of the transaction, which is currently one to 30 days. Because the cash we receive from the counterparty when we initially sell the securities is less than the value of those securities (by the margin), if the counterparty defaults on its obligation to resell the securities back to us, we would incur a loss on the transaction equal to such margin (assuming no change in the value of the securities). We would also lose money on a repurchase transaction if the value of the underlying securities has declined as of the end of the transaction term, as we would have to repurchase the securities for their initial value but would receive securities worth less than that amount. Any losses we incur on our repurchase transactions could adversely affect our earnings. Certain of our repurchase agreements include negative covenants and collateral posting requirements that, if breached, may cause our repurchase transactions to be terminated early, in which event our counterparty could terminate all repurchase transactions existing with us and make any amount due by us to the counterparty payable immediately. If we have to terminate outstanding repurchase transactions and are unable to negotiate new and acceptable funding terms, our liquidity will be impaired. This may reduce the amount of capital available for investing. In addition, we may have to liquidate assets at a time when we might not be able to do so on favorable terms or at all. There is no assurance we would be able to establish suitable replacement facilities. Changes in prepayment rates could reduce the value of our RMBS, which could reduce our earnings and overall liquidity. Pools of mortgage loans underlie the RMBS that we acquire. We generally receive payments on the RMBS from the payments that are made on these underlying mortgage loans. When we acquire the RMBS, we anticipate that prepayments on the underlying mortgage loans will occur at a projected rate, generating an expected yield. When borrowers prepay their mortgage loans faster than expected, the related prepayments on the corresponding RMBS will be faster than expected. Unexpected prepayments can also occur when borrowers default on their mortgage loans and the mortgage loans are prepaid from the proceeds of a foreclosure sale of the property, or when borrowers sell the property and use the sale proceeds to prepay the mortgage loans as part of a physical relocation. Faster-than-expected prepayments could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations in various ways, including the following: •We may purchase some RMBS that have a higher interest rate than the market interest rate at the time. In exchange for this higher interest rate, we would be required to pay a premium to acquire the security. Applicable accounting rules would require us to amortize this premium cost over a reduced term in the event of faster-than-expected prepayments. •If we acquire RMBS at a premium because they have an interest rate higher than the current market interest rates, and the mortgage loans underlying those RMBS are prepaid at a faster-than-expected rate, we may not receive the same financial benefit we would have received if the underlying mortgage loans had not been prepaid at the faster rate. •We anticipate that a portion of any adjustable-rate RMBS we acquire may bear interest at rates that are lower than their fully-indexed rates, which are equivalent to the applicable index rate plus a margin. If an adjustable-rate RMBS is prepaid prior to or soon after the time of adjustment to a fully-indexed rate, we will have held that RMBS while it was less profitable and lost the opportunity to receive interest at the fully indexed rate over the remainder of its expected life. •If we are unable to acquire new RMBS on similar terms to replace the prepaid RMBS, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow may suffer and we could incur losses. Conversely, when borrowers prepay their mortgage loans at slower than expected rates, prepayments on the Agency RMBS in which we invest may be slower than expected. These slower-than-expected payments may 28 Table of Contents also adversely affect our profitability. We may purchase Agency RMBS that have a lower interest rate than the then-prevailing market interest rate. In exchange for this lower interest rate, we may pay a discount to par value to acquire the security. In accordance with accounting rules, we accrete this discount over the expected term of the Agency RMBS based on our prepayment assumptions. If the Agency RMBS is prepaid at a slower-than-expected rate, however, we must accrete the remaining portion of the discount at a slower than expected rate. This will extend the expected life of the portfolio and result in a lower than expected yield on securities purchased at a discount to par. We may have to carry and hold lower interest assets for a longer period of time than we expect, which would reduce our profitability and could result in losses. Prepayment rates generally increase when interest rates fall and decrease when interest rates rise, but changes in prepayment rates are difficult to predict. Prepayment rates also may be affected by other factors, including, without limitation, conditions in the housing and financial markets, including the current ongoing disruptions in the residential mortgage market and softening of the real estate market, current and forward yield curve shapes, collateral type, loan amount, borrower pay rate reset index and frequency, geographic location, loan age, foreclosure rate, loan originator, servicer, prepayment history, borrower credit profile and current and original loan-to-value ratio, general economic conditions, unemployment rates and the relative interest rates on adjustable-rate and fixed-rate mortgage loans. While we seek to manage prepayment risk, in selecting investments we must balance prepayment risk against other risks, the potential returns of each investment and the cost of hedging our risks. No strategy can completely insulate us from prepayment or other such risks, and we may deliberately retain exposure to prepayment or other risks, which could subject us to losses. We have incurred substantial impairments of our assets and may incur significant impairments in the future. Due to a variety of factors, including adverse market conditions affecting the mortgage markets, we have incurred substantial impairments of our assets. These impairments have resulted in significant losses. Our assets, including our RMBS, may suffer additional impairments in the future causing us to recognize additional significant losses. Investors and lenders alike could lose confidence in the quality and value of our assets. These impairments, or the perception that these impairments may occur, can depress our stock price, harm our liquidity and materially adversely impact our results of operations. We may be forced to sell substantial assets at a time when the market is depressed in order to support or enhance our liquidity. Despite our need to sell substantial assets, we may be unable to make such sales on favorable terms or at all, further materially damaging our liquidity and operations. If we are unable to maintain adequate liquidity, as a result of these impairments or otherwise, it could have a material and adverse impact on the value of our common stock. There can be no assurance that the actions taken by the U.S. and foreign governments, central banks and other governmental and regulatory bodies for the purpose of seeking to stabilize the financial and real estate markets will achieve the intended effect or benefit our business, and further government or market developments could adversely affect us. Throughout 2008 and 2009, the U.S. government took a number of actions in response to the financial issues affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. Among these was the passage of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, or EESA, which provides the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury with the authority to establish a Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP, to purchase certain troubled financial assets from financial institutions in order to promote financial market stability. EESA also provides for a program that would allow companies to insure their troubled assets. Since late 2008, the U.S. Federal Reserve has engaged in various programs to purchase direct obligations of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, the Federal Home Loan Banks and Ginnie Mae, including RMBS, with the intent of reducing the cost and increasing the availability of credit for the purchase of houses in order to generally support housing markets and foster improved conditions in financial markets. The U.S. Federal Reserve's program to purchase RMBS could cause an increase in the price of Agency RMBS, which would negatively impact the net interest margin with respect to the Agency RMBS we intend to purchase. The U.S. Treasury Department has also initiated a program to purchase Agency RMBS from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the size and timing of which program are subject to the discretion of the Secretary of the 29 Table of Contents Treasury. Although purchases under this program are currently ongoing, there is no certainty that the U.S. Treasury will continue to purchase additional Agency RMBS in the future. The U.S. Treasury can hold its portfolio of RMBS to maturity, and, based on mortgage market conditions, may make adjustments to the portfolio. This flexibility may adversely affect the pricing and availability for our assets. It is also possible that the U.S. Treasury's commitment to purchase Agency RMBS in the future could create additional demand that would negatively affect the pricing of Agency RMBS that we hold or acquire. The U.S. government has also implemented programs designed to provide homeowners with assistance in avoiding residential mortgage loan foreclosures, which programs may involve, among other things, the modification of mortgage loans to reduce the principal amount of the loans or the rate of interest payable on the loans, or to extend the payment terms of the loans. In addition, members of the U.S. Congress have indicated support for additional legislative relief for homeowners, including an amendment of the bankruptcy laws to permit the modification of mortgage loans in bankruptcy proceedings. Any existing or future loan modification programs or other legislative or regulatory actions, including amendments to the bankruptcy laws, that result in the modification of outstanding mortgage loans may adversely affect the value of, and the returns on, the RMBS in which we invest. The impact of existing and new regulation related to the mortgage sector and economic recovery generally is highly uncertain and could have adverse consequences to us. There can be no assurance that EESA or the U.S. Federal Reserve's actions have had or will have a beneficial impact on the financial markets. To the extent the markets do not respond favorably to these or other actions taken by the U.S. government, or such actions result in unintended consequences, our business may not receive the anticipated positive impact from the legislation and such result may have broad adverse market implications. In addition, U.S. and foreign governments, central banks and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken or are considering taking other actions to address the financial crisis. We cannot predict whether or when such actions may occur or what effect, if any, such actions could have on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our non-Agency real estate investments are subject to risks particular to real property. We own assets secured by real estate that are not guaranteed by any U.S. government agency, and may own real estate directly. These real estate investments are subject to various risks, including: •declining real estate values, as continues to be experienced in many parts of the United States; •acts of God, including earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters, which may result in uninsured losses; •acts of war or terrorism, including the consequences of terrorist attacks, such as those that occurred on September 11, 2001; •adverse changes in national and local economic and market conditions; •changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and the related costs of compliance with laws and regulations, fiscal policies and ordinances; •costs of remediation and liabilities associated with environmental conditions; •the potential for uninsured or under-insured property losses; and •potential for payment-in kind rather than cash for payment of interest expense, which increases the principal balance of the investment and consequently our exposure to loss thereon. The occurrence of these or similar events may reduce our return from an affected property or investment. The mortgage loans underlying our RMBS and commercial mortgage-backed securities are subject to delinquency, foreclosure and loss, which could result in losses to us. Residential mortgage loans are secured by single-family residential property. They are subject to risks of delinquency and foreclosure, and risks of loss. The ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by a residential property depends on the income or assets of the borrower. Many factors may impair borrowers' abilities and willingness to repay their loans, including economic recession, job loss and declining real estate values. 30 Table of Contents Securities backed by residential mortgage loans originated in 2006 and 2007 have had higher and earlier than expected rates of delinquencies. In addition, housing prices continue to fall in many areas around the country, while unemployment rates continue to rise, further increasing the risk for higher delinquency rates. Commercial mortgage loans are secured by multi-family or commercial property. They are subject to risks of delinquency and foreclosure, and risks of loss that can be greater than similar risks associated with loans made on the security of single-family residential property. The ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by an income-producing property typically is dependent primarily upon the successful operation of the property rather than upon the existence of independent income or assets of the borrower. If the net operating income of the property is reduced, the borrower's ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Such income can be affected by many factors. In the event of any default under a mortgage loan held directly by us, we will bear a risk of loss of principal to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the collateral and the principal and accrued interest of the mortgage loan. This could impair our cash flow from operations. In the event of the bankruptcy of a mortgage loan borrower, the loan will be deemed secured only to the extent of the value of the underlying collateral at the time of bankruptcy (as determined by the bankruptcy court). The lien securing the mortgage loan will be subject to the avoidance powers of the bankruptcy trustee or debtor-in-possession to the extent the lien is unenforceable under state law. Foreclosure of a mortgage loan can be expensive and lengthy. This could impair our anticipated return on the foreclosed mortgage loan. RMBS represent interests in or are secured by pools of residential mortgage loans and commercial mortgage-backed securities, or CMBS, represent interests in or are secured by a single commercial mortgage loan or a pool of commercial mortgage loans. Accordingly, the RMBS we invest in are subject to all of the risks of the underlying mortgage loans. Our Corporate Loan portfolio includes debt of middle market companies. Investment in middle market companies involves a number of significant risks, including: •these companies may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their debt securities that we hold, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of us realizing any guarantees we may have obtained in connection with our investment; •they typically have shorter operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors' actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns; •they are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons, therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on our portfolio company and, in turn, on us; •they generally have less predictable operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position; and •the possibility that our executive officers and directors may, in the ordinary course of business, be named as defendants in litigation arising from our investments in the portfolio companies. Our investments in middle market companies consist primarily of mezzanine and senior debt securities. Middle market companies usually have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, the debt securities in which we invest. By their terms, such debt instruments may provide that the holders thereof are entitled to receive payment of interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments in respect of the debt securities in which we invest. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a middle market company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investment in that company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution in respect of our investment. After repaying such senior creditors, the company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to us. In the case of debt ranking 31 Table of Contents equally with debt securities in which we invest, we would have to share on an equal basis any distributions with other creditors holding such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant company. In addition, we may not be in a position to control any middle market company by investing in its debt securities. As a result, we are subject to the risk that the company in which we invest may make business decisions with which we disagree and the management of such company, as representatives of the holders of their common equity, may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not serve our interests as debt investors. We may invest in the equity and mezzanine securities of CDOs, and such investments involve various risks, including that CDO equity receives distributions from the CDO only if the CDO generates enough income to first pay the holders of its debt securities and its expenses. Our assets include the equity and/or mezzanine securities of one CDO (DFR MM CLO), as well as DCM's investments in the equity securities of one of the CDOs that it manages, and we may buy mezzanine and equity securities of or other interests in other CDOs. A CDO is a special purpose vehicle that purchases collateral (such as loans or asset-backed securities) that is expected to generate a stream of interest or other income. The CDO issues various classes of securities that participate in that income stream, typically one or more classes of debt instruments and a class of equity securities. The equity is usually entitled to all of the income generated by the CDO after the CDO pays all of the interest due on the debt securities and its expenses. However, there will be little or no income available to the CDO equity if there are defaults on the underlying collateral in excess of certain amounts or if the recoveries on such defaulted collateral are less than certain amounts. In that event, the value of our investment in the CDO's equity could decrease substantially. In addition, the equity securities of CDOs are generally illiquid, and because they represent a leveraged investment in the CDO's assets, their value will generally fluctuate more than the values of the underlying collateral. We consolidate DFR MM CLO onto our balance sheet and therefore record the gross amount of interest income and interest expense with respect thereto. However, we may never receive any cash payments related to that interest income, which makes our economic results significantly different from our reported results under generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Increases in interest rates could reduce the value of our investments, which could result in losses or reduced earnings. We invest indirectly in mortgage loans by purchasing RMBS. Under a normal yield curve where long-term rates are higher than short-term rates, the fair value of an investment in RMBS will decline in value if long-term interest rates increase. We are not protected from declines in fair value caused by changes in interest rates, which may ultimately reduce earnings or result in losses to us, which may reduce cash available for distribution to our stockholders. In accordance with GAAP, we are required to reduce the carrying value of our RMBS by the amount of any decrease in the fair value of our RMBS compared to amortized cost. If unrealized losses in fair value occur, we will either have to reduce current earnings or reduce stockholders' equity without immediately affecting current earnings, depending on how we classify our assets under GAAP. In either case, our net stockholders' equity will decrease to the extent of any realized or unrealized losses in fair value and our financial position will be negatively impacted. A significant risk of our RMBS investment is that both long-term and short-term interest rates will increase significantly. If long-term rates increased significantly, the fair value of these RMBS would decline and the duration and weighted average life of the investments would increase. We could realize a loss if the securities were sold. At the same time, an increase in short-term interest rates would increase the amount of interest owed on the repurchase agreements we may enter into in order to finance the purchase of RMBS. Our interest rate hedging transactions do not completely insulate us from interest rate risk. We do not at this time fully hedge our investment portfolio to limit our exposure to changes in interest rates. Although we may in the future enter into hedging transactions to seek to reduce interest rate risks, there is no guarantee that such hedging transactions will completely insulate us from interest rate risk. For example, hedging against a decline in the values of our portfolio positions would not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the values of these positions or prevent losses if the values decline. Moreover, it may not be possible to hedge against an interest rate fluctuation that is widely anticipated. 32 Table of Contents Additionally, entering into hedging transactions could potentially cause a number of adverse consequences to our business, such as limiting the opportunity for gain if the positions increase. Unanticipated changes in interest rates may result in poorer overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in any hedging. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions being hedged may vary. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not seek to establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the portfolio holdings being hedged. This may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss. Hedging instruments often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities and involve risks and costs. The cost of using hedging instruments increases as the period covered by the instrument increases and during periods of rising and volatile interest rates. We may increase our hedging activity and thus our hedging costs when interest rates are volatile or rising. Hedging instruments involve the risk that they often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities. Consequently, there may be no requirements with respect to record keeping, financial responsibility or segregation of customer funds and positions with regard to such transactions. The enforceability of agreements underlying derivative transactions may depend on compliance with various legal requirements and, depending on the identity of the counterparty, non-U.S. legal requirements. The business failure of a hedging counterparty of ours will most likely result in a default, which may result in the loss of unrealized profits and force us to cover our resale commitments at the then current market price. It may not always be possible to dispose of or close out a hedging position without the consent of the hedging counterparty, and we may not be able to enter into an offsetting contract in order to cover our risk. A liquid secondary market might not always exist for our hedging instruments, and we may have to hold a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in losses. Our derivative contracts could expose us to unexpected economic losses. Our investment strategy involves entering into derivative contracts that could require us to fund cash payments in the future under certain circumstances, e.g., the early termination of the derivative agreement caused by an event of default or other early termination event, or the decision by a counterparty to request margin securities that we owe it under the derivative contract. The amount due would be the unrealized loss of the open positions with the counterparty and could also include fees and charges. In addition, some of these derivative contracts require us to maintain a specified percentage of cash collateral with the counterparty to fund potential liabilities under the derivative contract. These economic losses will be reflected in our financial results, and our ability to fund these obligations will depend on the liquidity of our assets and access to capital at the time. The need to fund these obligations could hurt our financial condition. Our dependence on the management of other entities may adversely affect our business. We do not control the management, investment decisions or operations of the enterprises in which we have invested. Management of those enterprises may decide to change the nature of their assets, or management may otherwise change in a manner that is not satisfactory to us. We typically have no ability to affect these management decisions and we may have only limited ability to dispose of our investments. Our due diligence may not reveal all of an issuer's liabilities and may not reveal other weaknesses in its business. Before investing in a company, we assess the strength and skills of its management and other factors that we believe are material to the performance of the investment. In this process, we rely on the resources available to us and, in some cases, an investigation by third parties. This process is particularly important and subjective with respect to new companies because there may be little or no information publicly available about them. Our due diligence processes might not uncover all relevant facts, thus resulting in investment losses. 33 Table of Contents We are exposed to risk based on the concentration of the majority of our repurchase agreements with a single counterparty. Our repurchase agreement liabilities are significantly concentrated with a single counterparty. Should that counterparty decide to or be forced to exit the repurchase agreement financing business or to significantly increase the margins or haircuts associated with its repurchase agreements, we may be required to enter into replacement agreements with another counterparty with potentially less favorable terms. In addition, we run the risk of not being able to identify a new counterparty, in which case, we would have significantly reduced access to repurchase agreement financing. Either of these results could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. The conservatorship of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and related efforts, along with any changes in laws and regulations affecting the relationship between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the U.S. government, may adversely affect our business. The payments receive on the Agency RMBS in which we invest depend upon a steady stream of payments on the mortgages underlying the securities and are guaranteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are U.S. government-sponsored enterprises, and although their guarantees are not backed by the full faith and credit of the United States, they have been placed into conservatorship by the Federal Housing Finance Agency, or FHFA, which together with the U.S. Treasury and U.S. Federal Reserve, has undertaken actions designed to boost investor confidence in Fannie Mae's and Freddie Mac's debt and mortgage-backed securities. Although the U.S. government has described some specific steps that it intends to take as part of the conservatorship process, efforts to stabilize these entities may not be successful and the outcome and impact of these events remain highly uncertain. Additionally, although the U.S. government has committed capital to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, there can be no assurance that the credit facilities and other capital infusions will be adequate for their needs. If the financial support is inadequate, these companies could continue to suffer losses and could fail to honor their guarantees and other obligations. The future roles of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could be significantly reduced and the nature of their guarantees could be considerably limited relative to historical measurements. Any changes to the nature of the guarantees provided by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could redefine what constitutes Agency RMBS and could have broad adverse implications for the market and for our business. It is possible that the U.S. Treasury could stop providing credit support to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in the future. Additionally, each of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could be dissolved and the U.S. government could determine to stop providing liquidity support of any kind to the mortgage market. If Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac were eliminated, we would not be able, or if their structures were to change radically, we might not be able, to acquire Agency RMBS from these companies, which would have an adverse effect on the Principal Investing segment of our business. Our income could also be negatively affected in a number of ways depending on the manner in which related events unfold. For example, the current credit support provided by the U.S. Treasury to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and any additional credit support it may provide in the future, could have the effect of lowering the interest rates we expect to receive from Agency RMBS that we hold or acquire, thereby tightening the spread between the interest we earn on our portfolio of assets and our cost of financing that portfolio. A reduction in the supply of Agency RMBS could also negatively affect the pricing of Agency RMBS we hold or acquire by reducing the spread between the interest we earn on our portfolio of assets and our cost of financing that portfolio. As indicated above, recent legislation has changed the relationship between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the U.S. government. Future legislation could further change the relationship between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the U.S. government, and could also nationalize or eliminate such entities entirely. Any law affecting these government-sponsored enterprises may create market uncertainty and have the effect of reducing the actual or perceived credit quality of securities issued or guaranteed by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. As a result, such laws could increase the risk of loss on investments in Fannie Mae and/or Freddie Mac Agency RMBS. It also is possible that such laws could adversely impact the market for such securities and spreads at which they trade. All of the foregoing could materially adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition. 34 Table of Contents Changes in laws and regulations other than those affecting Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could adversely affect our business and ability to operate. Our business may also be adversely affected by changes to laws and regulations affecting us other than laws and regulations affecting Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, including changes to securities laws and changes to the Code. In addition, proposed changes to laws and regulations that could hinder a loan servicer's ability to adjust loan interest rates upward or to foreclose promptly on defaulted mortgage loans could adversely affect the performance of the loans and the yield on and value of the RMBS. Recently, sweeping legislation has been proposed and enacted that would grant the U.S. Federal Reserve greater oversight over many new aspects of the financial markets and their participants and the impact of these events remains highly uncertain. New legislation may be enacted into law or new interpretations, rulings or regulations could be adopted, potentially with retroactive effect, any of which could adversely affect our business. Pegasus may not invest the full amount of its capital commitments into DPLC. Pegasus is currently committed to invest $74.0 million in DPLC. However, that capital commitment is subject to numerous conditions, any or all of which may be outside of our control and may not be satisfied. In the event that Pegasus does not invest the full amount of its $74.0 million capital commitment, our revenues from DPLC, both in the form of management fees and incentive allocations and in the form of return on our investment in DPLC, are likely to be significantly lower than expected, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, we are currently committed $15.0 million in DPLC, and we may not invest all of such amount if Pegasus does not invest the full amount of its capital commitment. DPLC may not perform as anticipated, which may affect future investment advisory fees and/or the loss of some or all of our investment. We expect to derive revenue from DPLC principally from three sources: (i) management fees based on the net asset value of the investment portfolio, (ii) incentive allocations based on the performance of DPLC and (iii) investment income from our investment in DPLC, which we may not receive until DPLC is liquidated according to its terms. If economic and market conditions are unfavorable, or if we are unsuccessful in selecting appropriate investments for DPLC's portfolio, DPLC may not perform well. In the event that DPLC does not perform as well as we expect, our revenues from DPLC may be significantly lower than expected, and we could lose some or all of our direct investment in the DPLC, each of which may adversely affect our financial condition and the value of our common stock. Furthermore, in the event DPLC is not successful, it could be significantly less likely that we will be able to successfully launch new investment products and implement this aspect of our business strategy. We may lose some or all of our investment in DPLC as a result of certain subordination provisions contained in the documents governing DPLC. Our investment in DPLC is subordinated to Pegasus' investment in DPLC in that Pegasus has a liquidation preference with respect to its investment. The documents governing DPLC prevent us from receiving certain distributions from DPLC unless and until Pegasus has received distributions equal to its initial capital contributions to DPLC. DPLC incurred substantial expenses in connection with its organization and launch, and, unless revenues from DPLC exceed those organizational expenses and any additional expenses incurred over time, those expenses will have the effect of decreasing the ultimate return on our investment, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Tax Risks Our ability to use NOL and NCL carryovers to reduce future taxable income may be limited. Historically, we had elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Code and were generally not subject to corporate income tax to the extent we currently distributed our taxable income to our stockholders. During the third quarter of 2008, we converted to a C corporation (retroactive to January 1, 2008), in part to maximize the use of significant potential tax benefits flowing from our existing and projected NOLs, NCLs, and certain other tax attributes. We must have taxable income or gains in future periods to benefit from these NOLs, NCLs and 35 Table of Contents certain other tax attributes, and no assurance can be provided that we will have taxable income or gains in the future. In addition, our NOL and NCL carryovers may be limited by Sections 382 and 383 of the Code if we undergo an "ownership change." Generally, an "ownership change" occurs if certain persons or groups increase their aggregate ownership in our company by more than 50 percentage points looking back over the relevant testing period. If an ownership change occurs, our ability to use our NOLs, NCLs and certain recognized built-in losses to reduce our taxable income in a future year would be limited to a Section 382 limitation equal to the fair market value of our stock immediately prior to the ownership change multiplied by the long term tax-exempt interest rate in effect for the month of the ownership change. In the event of an ownership change, NOLs and NCLs that exceed the Section 382 limitation in any year will continue to be allowed as carryforwards for the remainder of the carryforward period and such losses can be used to offset taxable income for years within the carryforward period subject to the Section 382 limitation in each year. However, if the carryforward period for any NOL or NCL were to expire before that loss had been fully utilized, the unused portion of that loss would be lost. The carryforward period for NOLs is 20 years from the year in which the losses giving rise to the NOLs were incurred, and the carryforward period for NCLs is 5 years from the year in which the losses giving rise to the NCLs were incurred. Our use of new NOLs or NCLs arising after the date of an ownership change would not be affected by the Section 382 limitation (unless there were another ownership change after those new losses arose). Based on our knowledge of shareholder ownership of DFR, we do not believe that an ownership change has occurred since our losses were generated. Accordingly, we believe that at the current time there is no annual limitation imposed on our use of our NOLs and NCLs to reduce future taxable income. The determination of whether an ownership change has occurred or will occur is complicated and depends on changes in percentage stock ownership among stockholders. Although the section 382 ownership limit in our charter is intended to prevent transactions that could trigger an ownership change, no assurance can be provided that the section 382 ownership limit will be successful in preventing an ownership change. In addition, we have not obtained, and currently do not plan to obtain, a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, regarding our conclusions as to whether our losses are subject to any such limitations. Furthermore, we may decide in the future that it is necessary or in our interest to take certain actions that could result in an ownership change. Therefore, no assurance can be provided as to whether an ownership change has occurred or will occur in the future. Preserving the ability to use our NOLs and NCLs may cause us to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities. Limitations imposed by Sections 382 and 383 of the Code may discourage us from, among other things, redeeming our stock or issuing additional stock to raise capital or to acquire businesses or assets. Accordingly, our desire to preserve our NOLs and NCLs may cause us to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities. Failure to qualify as a REIT in prior years would subject us to federal income tax. Prior to our 2008 tax year, we operated in a manner that was intended to cause us to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. However, the tax laws governing REITs are extremely complex, and interpretations of the tax laws governing qualification as a REIT are limited. Qualifying as a REIT required us to meet numerous income and other tests. Given the highly complex nature of the rules governing REITs, the ongoing importance of factual determinations, and the possibility of changes in our circumstances, no assurance can be given that we qualified for any particular year. If we failed to qualify as a REIT prior to our 2008 tax year and we do not qualify for certain statutory relief provisions, we would have to pay federal income tax on our taxable income for the year of the failure and for the following four years. Our payment of income tax attributable to our failure to qualify as a REIT prior to our 2008 taxable year would decrease the amount of our income available for distribution to our stockholders. 36 Table of Contents Our foreign corporate subsidiaries could be subject to federal income tax at the entity level, which would greatly reduce the amounts those entities would have available to distribute to us. DFR MM CLO is a Cayman Islands exempted limited liability company and is the issuer of a CLO transaction in which we have invested. We have also invested in other foreign corporate subsidiaries and may in the future invest in new foreign corporate subsidiaries. There is a specific exemption from federal income tax for non-U.S. corporations that restrict their activities in the United States to trading stock and securities (or any activity closely related thereto) for their own account whether such trading (or such other activity) is conducted by the corporation or its employees through a resident broker, commission agent, custodian or other agent. We intend that our foreign corporate subsidiaries will rely on that exemption or otherwise operate in a manner so that they will not be subject to federal income tax on their net income at the entity level. If the IRS successfully challenged the qualification of our foreign corporate subsidiaries for the exemption from federal income tax described above, that could greatly reduce the amount that our foreign corporate subsidiaries would have available to pay to their creditors and to distribute to us. If we make distributions in excess of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, those distributions will be treated as a return of capital, which will reduce the adjusted basis of your stock, and to the extent such distributions exceed your adjusted basis, you may recognize a capital gain. Unless you are a tax-exempt entity, distributions that we make to you generally will be subject to tax as ordinary income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits as determined for federal income tax purposes. If the amount we distribute to you exceeds your allocable share of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, the excess will be treated as a return of capital to the extent of your adjusted basis in your stock. This will reduce your basis in your stock but will not be subject to tax. If the amount we distribute to you exceeds both your allocable share of our current and accumulated earnings and profits and your adjusted basis, this amount will be treated as a gain from the sale or exchange of a capital asset. Risks Related to the Transactions Bounty may exercise significant influence over us, including through its ability to elect three of nine members of our Board. When the Transactions are completed, our common stock owned by Bounty will represent approximately 41.3% of the outstanding shares of our common stock as of March 22, 2010 (excluding the shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes and exercise of outstanding options). Assuming Bounty elects to convert the entire principal amount of the Convertible Notes and we have not elected to pay PIK Interest, the common stock owned by Bounty will represent approximately 57.3% of the outstanding shares of our common stock as of March 22, 2010 (excluding the exercise of outstanding options). There are no restrictions on Bounty's ability to vote the shares of our common stock owned by it. As a result, Bounty may have the ability to significantly influence the outcome of any matter submitted for the vote of our stockholders, including the amendment of our organizational documents, acquisitions or other business combinations involving us and disapproving extraordinary transactions such as a takeover attempt. In addition, we have agreed to adopt a majority voting bylaw upon the consummation of the Transactions, so that Bounty will be in a position to block the election of any director nominated by our Nominating Committee. The Stockholders Agreement provides that if Bounty holds at least 25% of the outstanding shares of our common stock (including shares issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes), then Bounty will have the right to designate three (one of whom must qualify as an independent director) out of nine directors to the Board. If Bounty holds less than 25% but holds 15% or more, then Bounty will have the right to designate two out of nine directors to the Board, and if Bounty holds less than 15% but holds 5% or more, Bounty will have the right to designate one director out of nine directors to the Board. Upon consummation of the Transactions, the Board will establish a strategic committee consisting of two directors designated by Bounty and two directors designated by those independent directors of the Company not designated by Bounty. The strategic committee will report and make recommendations to the Board regarding: (i) the identification and execution of merger and acquisition opportunities; (ii) setting direction for the Company with management, including new investment initiatives and investment products; (iii) the hiring, dismissal and scope of responsibility of senior management; and (iv) the integration of the CLO platforms of CNCIM and the Company, and if approved by 37 Table of Contents the Board, managing the execution of such actions. As a result, the directors elected to the Board by Bounty may exercise significant influence on matters considered by the Board. Bounty may have interests that diverge from, or even conflict with, our interests and those of our other stockholders. The issuance of our common stock contemplated by the Acquisition Agreement and upon conversion of the Convertible Notes contemplated by the Convertible Notes Agreement will have a substantial dilutive effect on our common stock, which may adversely affect the market price of the our common stock. When the Transactions are completed, there will be an additional 4,545,455 shares of our common stock and an additional approximately 4,132,231 shares of the our common stock issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes, assuming we do not elect to pay any PIK Interest, which will be entitled to participate with respect to any dividends or other distributions paid on our common stock. When the Transactions are completed, the common stock owned by Bounty will represent approximately 41.3% of the outstanding shares of our common stock (excluding the shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes and exercise of outstanding options). Assuming the holders of the Convertible Notes elect to convert the entire principal amount of the Convertible Notes, the common stock owned by Bounty will represent approximately 57.3% of our common stock issued and outstanding as of the Record Date. The market price of our common stock may decline as a result of the issuance of the our common stock contemplated by the Transactions. We are unable to predict the potential effects of the issuance of our common stock to Bounty pursuant to the Acquisition Agreement and the Convertible Notes to Bounty pursuant to the Convertible Notes Agreement on the trading activity and market price of our common stock. We have granted registration rights to Bounty for the resale of the shares of our common stock issued pursuant to the Acquisition Agreement and have granted registration rights to Bounty for the resale of the shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes issued pursuant to the Convertible Agreement. These registration rights would facilitate the resale of such securities into the public market, and any such resale would increase the number of shares of our common stock available for public trading. Sales by Bounty of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales might occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. If the Transactions are not completed, the price of our common stock and our future business and operations could be harmed. Ours and Bounty's obligations to complete the sale of CNCIM to us and ours and Bounty's obligations to complete the issuance of the Convertible Notes are subject to conditions, many of which are beyond the control of the parties. If the Transactions are not completed for any reason, we may be subject to a number of material risks, including the following: •We may be required under certain circumstances to pay Bounty a termination fee of $1,500,000 and to reimburse Bounty's legal expenses; •The price of our common stock may decline; •We may be subject to litigation related to the failure to complete the Transactions, which could require substantial time and resources to resolve; •Costs related to the Transactions, such as legal, accounting, proxy solicitation and printing fees, must be paid even if the Transactions are not completed; •Matters relating to the Transactions (including the negotiation of terms and integration planning) required a substantial commitment of time and resources by our management, which could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that may have been beneficial to us; •We may not be able to realize the expected benefits of the Acquisition of CNCIM; •If the Transactions are not completed, we may be unable to find a partner willing to engage in similar transactions on terms as favorable as those set forth in the Acquisition Agreement and the Convertible Notes Agreement, or at all; and 38 Table of Contents •If we are unable to complete a Credit Enhancing Transaction (as defined in the New Indenture) in a timely fashion, the interest rate on the New Subordinated Notes will increase and the New Subordinated Notes will contain a restricted payment covenant. Certain elements of the Transactions may discourage other parties from entering into transactions with us. While the Acquisition Agreement is in effect, subject to limited exceptions, we are prohibited from soliciting, initiating or encouraging any inquiries or proposals from third parties that may lead to a proposal or offer for an acquisition of or other significant transaction with us. In addition, if the Board terminates the Acquisition Agreement to accept an alternative transaction proposal or if the Board changes its recommendation of the proposal to approve the issuance of our common stock and Conversion Shares in response to a material event, development or change in circumstance that occurs, arises or becomes known to the Board, then we will be obligated to pay a termination fee of $1,500,000 to Bounty and reimburse Bounty for its legal expenses. These provisions, alone or in combination, could discourage other parties from trying to acquire us even though those other parties might be willing to offer greater value to us than that offered by the Transactions. In addition, after the completion of the Transactions, the ownership position and governance rights of Bounty could discourage a third party from proposing a change of control or other strategic transaction concerning us. We may not be able to realize all of the benefits of the Acquisition of CNCIM. CNCIM derives its revenues from collateral management agreements with CLOs. Under the collateral management agreements, payment of CNCIM's management fees is generally subject to a "waterfall" structure providing that all or a portion of CNCIM's fees may be deferred if, among other things, the CLOs do not generate sufficient cash flows to pay the required interest on the notes they have issued to investors and certain expenses they have incurred. This could occur if the issuers of the collateral underlying the CLOs default on or defer payments of principal or interest relating to the collateral. If defaults and delinquencies on the assets underlying the CLOs occur, then CNCIM could experience declines in and deferrals of its management fees. Additionally, all or a portion of CNCIM's management fees from the CLOs that it manages may be deferred if the CLOs fail to meet their over-collateralization requirements. Pursuant to the "waterfall" structure discussed above, such failures generally require cash flows to be diverted to amortize the most senior class of notes prior to paying a portion of CNCIM's management fees. Defaulted assets, which in some CLOs may include severely-downgraded assets, are generally carried at a reduced value for purposes of the over-collateralization tests. In some CLOs, defaulted assets are required to be carried at their market values for purposes of the over-collateralization tests. In the event of defaults, severe downgrades and depressed market values of the collateral underlying the CLOs managed by CNCIM, the CLOs could breach their over-collateralization tests, which would result in declines in and deferrals of CNCIM's management fees. The CLOs managed by CNCIM generally contain structural provisions including, but not limited to, over-collateralization requirements and/or market value triggers that are meant to protect investors from deterioration in the credit quality of the underlying collateral pool. In certain cases, breaches of these structural provisions can lead to events of default under the indentures governing the CLOs and, ultimately, acceleration of the notes issued by the CLO and liquidation of the underlying collateral. In the event of a liquidation of the collateral underlying a CLO, CNCIM will lose client assets under management and therefore management fees, which could have a material and adverse effect on CNCIM's earnings. CNCIM's collateral management agreements allow investors that hold a specified amount of securities issued by the CLO to remove CNCIM for "cause," which typically includes CNCIM's violation of the management agreement or the CLO's indenture, CNCIM's breach of its representations and warranties under the agreement, CNCIM's bankruptcy or insolvency, fraud or a criminal offense by CNCIM or its employees, and the failure of certain of the CLO's performance tests. These "cause" provisions may be triggered from time to time with respect to the CLO Issuers and as a result CNCIM could be removed as the investment manager of a CLO. In the case of certain CLOs, CNCIM can also be removed as the investment manager upon its loss of specified key employees. 39 Table of Contents We must continue to retain, motivate and recruit executive, experts and other key employees, which may be difficult in light of uncertainty regarding the Transactions, and failure to do so could negatively affect the combined company. For the Transactions to be successful, during the period before the Transactions are completed, we must continue to retain, motivate and recruit executives, experts and other key employees. We must be successful at retaining key employees following the completion of the Transactions. Experienced experts and executives are in high demand and competition for their talents can be intense. Our employees may experience uncertainty about their future role with us until, or even after, strategies with regard to the combined companies are announced or executed. These potential distractions of the Transactions may adversely affect our ability to keep executives, experts and other key employees focused on applicable strategies and goals. A failure by us to retain and motivate executives, experts and other key employees during the period prior to or after the completion of the Transactions could have a material and adverse impact on our business. Our existing stockholders will not receive any of the proceeds from the sale of the Convertible Notes. The net proceeds from the sale of the Convertible Notes will be paid directly to us. We intend to use the proceeds of the sale of the Convertible Notes, together with other funds, to finance the repurchase the Series A and Series B Notes. The Transactions will result in an "ownership change" under Section 382 of the Code. The issuance of our common stock contemplated by the Acquisition Agreement will result in an "Ownership Change" as defined in Sections 382 and 383 of the Code. As a result of the occurrence of the Ownership Change, our ability to use our NOLs, NCLs and certain recognized built-in losses to reduce our taxable income in a future year would generally be limited, which could adversely affect our liquidity, earnings per share and the trading price of our Common Stock. 40 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 