Item 1A. RISK FACTORS We have identified the following risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects. Our business could be harmed by any of these risks. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry We have a history of losses, expect to incur future losses as we grow our company and may be unable to achieve or sustain profitability. We have been in existence since 2001 and have experienced net losses in each year since our inception. We have experienced net losses of $20.1 million, $10.8 million and $11.6 million for fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. As of January 31, 2014 and 2013, we had an accumulated deficit of $95.7 million and $75.5 million, respectively. We are at an early stage in the development of our business and much of our growth has occurred in recent periods. Our historical rates of revenue growth may not be sustainable. We expect to make significant expenditures to support and grow our business, including expanding our sales force and research and development team, increasing our international presence and investing in our data center infrastructure. In addition, as a public company we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. Furthermore, we may encounter unforeseen expenses, complications and other difficulties. We expect to incur losses for the foreseeable future and may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability. Our limited operating history may make it difficult for our investors to evaluate our current business and our future prospects. Our success depends on the continued adoption of Agile software development. We do not know whether Agile adoption will continue to grow and displace traditional methods of software development. In particular, many organizations have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to integrate legacy software development techniques, such as waterfall techniques, into their businesses over time, and may be reluctant or unwilling to migrate to Agile practices because of the organizational changes often required to successfully implement this methodology. Further, some organizations may not realize the expected benefits from adoption of Agile practices and, as a result, may discontinue adoption of those practices. Agile adoption may also be limited if other software development techniques emerge. If Agile software development techniques are not adopted as broadly and quickly as we expect, our growth may slow or stall and our operating results would be harmed. Demand for Agile management solutions may not grow as we anticipate. Our solutions have not yet gained broad market acceptance. Even if adoption of Agile software development techniques continues to grow, the market for solutions that enable companies to manage software development processes may not increase at the pace we expect or at all. Organizations may choose to manage Agile software development manually or utilize other offerings that render our solutions uncompetitive or obsolete. Our growth is largely dependent on our ability to retain and secure additional subscriptions from existing customers, and nonrenewals and downgrades could harm our future operating results. We primarily sell our solutions through one-year subscriptions. We typically negotiate the total number of seats a customer is entitled to provision as part of their subscription, but these seats may not be fully utilized over the term of the agreement. Upon expiration, customers can renew their 16 Table of Contents existing subscriptions, upgrade their subscriptions, downgrade their subscriptions or not renew. Our ability to grow revenue and achieve profitability depends in part on customer renewals and upgrades exceeding downgrades and nonrenewals. Our land-and-expand go-to-market strategy requires that a significant portion of our customers who initially purchase our solutions will subsequently upgrade their subscriptions. However, we may not be able to increase our penetration within our existing customers as anticipated and we may not otherwise retain subscriptions from existing customers. Customers may choose to not renew or upgrade their subscriptions, or may downgrade, because of several factors, including dissatisfaction with our prices or features relative to competitive offerings, reductions in our customers' spending levels, unused seats previously purchased, limited adoption by a customer of our solutions or Agile practices, departure of Agile users from the customer's organization or other causes. If our customers do not upgrade or renew their subscriptions, or they downgrade their subscriptions, our revenue may grow more slowly than expected or may decline, and our profitability and gross profit may be harmed. If we are unable to continue to attract new customers, our growth could be slower than we expect. We believe that our future growth depends in part upon increasing our customer base. Our ability to achieve significant growth in revenue in the future will depend, in part, upon continually attracting new customers and obtaining subscription renewals to our solutions from those customers. If we fail to attract new customers our revenue may grow more slowly than expected and our business may be harmed. We recognize revenue from customer subscriptions over the term of a subscription agreement; therefore, a significant downturn in our business may not be immediately reflected in our operating results. We recognize revenue from subscription agreements ratably over the terms of these agreements, which are typically one year. As a result, a significant portion of the revenue we report in each quarter is generated from customer agreements entered into during previous periods, which is reflected as deferred revenue on our balance sheet. Consequently, a decline in new or renewed subscriptions, or a downgrade of renewed subscriptions to fewer seats or less-expensive editions, in any one quarter may not be fully reflected in our revenue in that quarter, and may negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. If contracts having significant value expire and are not renewed or replaced at the beginning of a quarter or are downgraded, our revenue may decline significantly in that quarter and subsequent quarters. Because we generally recognize revenue from our customers over the terms of their agreements but incur most costs associated with generating such agreements upfront, rapid growth in our customer base may reduce our profitability in the short term. Expenses, such as sales commissions, are generally incurred upfront; however most of our revenue is recognized over the life of the applicable agreements. Therefore, increased sales will result in our recognition of proportionately more costs than revenue during the early periods covered by such agreements, even in cases where the agreements are expected to be profitable for us over their full terms. As a result, our short-term operating results may suffer. Our gross profit attributable to professional services may fluctuate between quarters. We generally recognize revenue from professional services on a time-and-materials basis as services are delivered. Costs associated with maintaining a professional services department are relatively fixed while professional services revenue is dependent on the amount of work actually billed to customers in a period, the combination of which may result in variability in our gross profit. Our gross profit can also be impacted depending on the type of services provided. In addition, the timing of the recognition of professional services revenue is dependent on several factors outside our control. If a customer 17 Table of Contents deploys our solutions and utilizes our services more slowly than we expect, we may not be able to recognize the related revenue as quickly as we anticipated, but may have already incurred substantial costs related to such services, creating further variability in our gross profit. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. We face intense competition in the market for our solutions and we expect competition to further intensify in the future. We primarily face competition from potential customers electing to use in-house offerings, privately-held Agile management vendors and software development tool providers, and providers of open source offerings. We also compete with large, diversified software and technology vendors and, as the market further adopts Agile practices, we expect increased competition from these vendors. Our competitors vary in size and in the breadth and scope of the products and services offered. Our primary competitors include private companies such as Atlassian, CollabNet and VersionOne and public companies such as Hewlett-Packard, IBM and Microsoft, some of which can bundle competing products and services with other software offerings, or offer them at a lower price as part of a larger sale. Further, other companies not currently offering Agile management tools may enter our market. Many of our current and potential competitors have substantially greater resources and brand recognition, established marketing relationships, access to larger customer bases, pre-existing customer relationships and major distribution agreements with consultants, system integrators and resellers. We also face competition from other companies that provide Agile consulting services and enterprises that develop in-house Agile training resources. To the extent competition intensifies; demand for our professional services may decline. In addition, if one or more of our competitors were to merge or partner with another of our competitors, the change in the competitive landscape could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. We may also lose customers that merge with or are acquired by companies using a competitor's offering, an internally-developed tool or a different software development methodology. If we cannot compete successfully against our current and future competitors, our business may be harmed. Our growth and long-term success depends in part on our ability to expand our international sales. A core component of our growth strategy is international expansion. For fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012, approximately 14%, 13% and 14%, respectively, of our revenue was derived from international customers. We currently maintain international offices and have sales, marketing, support or research and development personnel in the United Kingdom, Australia, Finland, the Netherlands and Singapore. We also have sales personnel in Canada and Germany. We intend to further build out our international operations. Our international expansion efforts may not be successful. In addition, conducting international operations in new markets subjects us to new risks that we have not generally faced in the United States. These risks include: •uncertain political and economic climates; •lack of familiarity and burdens of complying with foreign laws, accounting and legal standards, regulatory requirements, tariffs, and other barriers; •unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, taxes, trade laws, tariffs, export quotas, custom duties or other trade restrictions; •lack of experience in connection with the localization of our solutions, including translation into foreign languages and adaptation for local practices and regulatory requirements; •difficulties in managing systems integrators and technology collaborators; •difficulties in adapting to differing technology standards; 18 Table of Contents •longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; •difficulties in managing and staffing international operations and differing legal and cultural expectations for employee relationships; •fluctuations in exchange rates that may increase the volatility of our foreign-based expenses; •potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of foreign value-added tax, goods and services tax and other transactional taxes, and restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; •reduced or varied protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; and •difficulties in managing and adapting to differing cultures and customs. Further, our international expansion efforts may be hindered by lower levels of Agile or cloud adoption and increased price sensitivity for our solutions or other cloud-based offerings in international markets. As a result of these and other factors, international expansion may be more difficult, take longer and not generate the results we anticipate, which could negatively impact our growth and business. Prices for our solutions may face downward pressure, harming our operating results. There are many factors that may lead to downward pressure on our prices, including competitors introducing lower-cost offerings, additional competitors entering the market, the use by potential or existing customers of alternative open source or other no or low cost offerings and larger competitors bundling competing offerings with additional products and services. In addition, we offer volume price discounts based on the number of seats purchased. As a result of these factors, we may be forced to reduce the prices we charge for our solutions, unable to renew existing customer agreements or enter into new customer agreements at the same prices and upon the same terms as we have historically been able to. If we experience downward pressure on pricing, our revenue, gross profit and other operating results could be harmed. Sales cycles to our customers can be lengthy and variable, which may cause changes in our operating results. Our sales cycle can vary substantially from customer to customer. A number of factors influence the length and variability of our sales cycles, including, for example: •the need to educate potential customers about the uses and benefits of Agile methods and our solutions; •the discretionary nature of potential customers' purchasing and budget cycles and decisions; •the competitive nature of potential customers' evaluation and purchasing processes; •the functionality demands of potential customers; •the announcement or planned introduction of new products by us or our competitors; and •the purchasing approval processes of potential customers. Our sales cycles can make it difficult to predict the quarter in which revenue from a new customer may first be recognized. We may incur significant sales and marketing expenses and invest significant time and effort in anticipation of a sale that may never occur or only occur in a smaller amount or at a later date than anticipated. Delays inherent to our sales cycles could cause significant variability in our revenue and operating results for any particular period. 19 Table of Contents The seasonality of our business can create significant variance in our quarterly bookings, perpetual license revenue and cash flow from operations. Our customers tend to follow budgeting cycles, buying solutions at the beginning and end of a calendar year. We tend to experience some seasonality associated with bookings, perpetual license revenue and cash flow from operations in the first and fourth quarters of each fiscal year. As a result of these seasonal variations, our bookings, perpetual license revenue and cash flow from operations can fluctuate significantly between quarters. Our cash flow from operations has historically been higher in the first quarter of each fiscal year than in other quarters. If our quarterly operating results or outlook fall below the expectations of research analysts or investors, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, we may be unable to execute our business plan and maintain high levels of service. We increased our number of full-time employees from 285 as of January 31, 2012 to 360 as of January 31, 2013 and to 458 as of January 31, 2014. Our revenue grew from $41.3 million in fiscal 2012 to $56.8 million in fiscal 2013 and to $74.3 million in fiscal 2014. Our growth has placed, and is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our managerial, administrative, operational, financial and other resources. We intend to add and expend additional resources in an effort to further expand our overall business, customer base, headcount and operations both domestically and internationally, but can give no assurance that our business or revenue will continue to grow at historical rates or at all. Creating a global organization and managing a geographically-dispersed workforce will require substantial management effort, the allocation of valuable management resources and significant additional investment in our infrastructure. If we are unable to successfully manage our anticipated growth, our financial results may suffer. Failure to maintain and expand our direct sales team may negatively impact our revenue growth. We primarily sell our solutions through our direct sales force. Growing sales to both new and existing customers is in part dependent on our ability to expand our sales force. Identifying, recruiting and training additional sales personnel require significant time, expenses and attention. If we are unable to hire, develop and retain sales personnel or if our new direct sales personnel are unable to achieve expected sales productivity levels in a reasonable period of time or at all, we may not be able to increase our revenue and grow our business. If we are unable to increase market awareness of our company and our solutions, our revenue may not continue to grow, or may decline. Market awareness of our capabilities and solutions is essential to our ability to generate new leads for expanding our business and our continued growth. If we fail to sufficiently invest in our marketing programs or they are unsuccessful in creating market awareness of our company and solutions, our business may be harmed. Adverse economic conditions or reduced IT or enterprise software spending may adversely impact our business. Our business depends on the overall demand for IT and enterprise software spend and on the economic health of our current and prospective customers. In general, worldwide economic conditions remain unstable, and these conditions make it difficult for us, and our existing customers and prospective customers, to forecast and plan future business activities accurately, and could cause our customers or prospective customers to reevaluate their decision to purchase our solutions. Weak global economic conditions, or a reduction in IT or enterprise software spending even if economic conditions 20 Table of Contents improve, could harm our business in a number of ways, including longer sales cycles and lower prices for our solutions. Security breaches may harm our business. Any security breaches, cyber-attacks, unauthorized access, unauthorized usage, virus or similar breach or disruption could result in loss of confidential information, damage to our reputation, early termination of our contracts, litigation, regulatory investigations or other liabilities. If our security measures or those of our third-party data centers are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise and, as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to customer data, our reputation will be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability. Our business is substantially dependent upon the continued adoption of cloud-based software solutions. We derive, and expect to continue to derive, substantially all of our revenue from the sale of subscriptions for our cloud-based platform. We do not know whether the trend of adoption of enterprise cloud-based software solutions we have experienced in the past will continue in the future. Many organizations have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to integrate on-premise software tools into their businesses, and some have been reluctant or unwilling to migrate to cloud-based software solutions. Furthermore, some organizations, particularly enterprises upon which we are dependent, have been reluctant or unwilling to use cloud-based solutions because they have concerns regarding the risks associated with the security of their data and the reliability of the technology delivery model associated with these solutions. In addition, if we or other cloud-based providers experience security incidents, loss of customer data, disruptions in delivery or other problems, the market for cloud-based software solutions as a whole, including for our solutions, may be negatively impacted. If the adoption of cloud-based software solutions does not continue at the rate we anticipate, the market for these solutions may stop developing or may develop more slowly than we expect, either of which would harm our operating results. If we fail to adequately manage our data-center infrastructure capacity, our existing customers may experience service outages and our new customers may experience delays in the deployment of our platform. We have experienced significant growth in the number of users and amount of data that our hosting infrastructure supports. We seek to maintain excess capacity to facilitate the rapid provision of new customer deployments and the expansion of existing customer deployments. However, the provisioning of new data-center infrastructure requires lead time. If we do not accurately predict our infrastructure capacity requirements with sufficient lead time, our customers could experience service impairment that may subject us to financial penalties and liabilities and cause us to lose customers. If our data-center infrastructure capacity fails to keep pace with increased subscriptions, customers may experience delays or reductions in the quality of our service as we seek to obtain additional capacity, which could harm our reputation and harm our business. Any disruption of service at the two data centers that house our equipment and deliver our solutions could harm our business. Our users expect to be able to access our solutions 24 hours a day, seven days a week, without interruption. We have computing and communications hardware operations located in co-location data centers owned and operated by a third party in Denver, Colorado and in the Seattle, Washington area. We do not control the operation of these data centers and we are therefore vulnerable to any security breaches, power outages or other issues the data centers experience. We have experienced and expect that we will in the future experience interruptions, delays and outages in service and availability from time to time. For example, we experienced an unscheduled partial data center outage for greater than 21 Table of Contents 30 minutes that affected all of our customers three times in fiscal 2013 and once in fiscal 2014 at our Denver, Colorado data center. The owner of our data centers has no obligation to renew its agreements with us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unable to renew these agreements on commercially reasonable terms, we may be required to move to new data centers, and we may incur significant costs and possible service interruption in connection with doing so. Our data centers are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, malicious acts, cyber-attacks, earthquakes, hurricanes, tornados, floods, fires, war, terrorist attacks, power losses, hardware failures, systems failures, telecommunications failures and similar events. One of our data centers is located in an area known for seismic activity, increasing our susceptibility to the risk that an earthquake could significantly harm the operations of this facility. The occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, vandalism or other misconduct, a decision to close the data centers without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in availability of our solutions. Any changes in third-party service levels at our data centers or any errors, defects, disruptions or other performance problems with our solutions could harm our reputation and may damage our customers' businesses. Interruptions in availability of our solutions might reduce our revenue, cause us to issue credits to customers, subject us to potential liability, and cause customers to terminate their subscriptions or decide not to renew their subscriptions with us. Our success depends on our ability to adapt to technological change and continue to innovate. The market for Agile management solutions is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product and service introductions and evolving industry standards. Our ability to attract new customers and increase revenue from existing customers will depend in large part on our ability to introduce new solutions and enhance and improve existing solutions. To achieve market acceptance for our solutions, we must effectively anticipate and offer solutions that meet changing customer demands in a timely manner. Customers may require features and capabilities that our current solutions do not have. We may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent our development, introduction or implementation of new solutions and enhancements. If we are unable to successfully develop or acquire new Agile management capabilities and functionality, enhance our existing solutions to anticipate and meet customer preferences, sell our solutions into new markets or adapt to changing industry standards in software development methodologies, our revenue and results of operations would be adversely affected. If we fail to integrate our solutions with software applications and competitive or adjacent offerings that are developed by others, our solutions may become less marketable, less competitive or obsolete, and our operating results would be harmed. Our solutions integrate with a variety of software applications, and also with competing and adjacent third-party offerings, and we need to continuously modify and enhance our platform to adapt to changes in cloud-enabled hardware, software, networking, browser and database technologies. Any failure of our solutions to interoperate effectively with software applications and other Agile management offerings could reduce the demand for our solutions or result in customer dissatisfaction and harm to our business. If we are unable to respond to changes in the applications and tools with which our solutions interoperate in a cost-effective manner, our solutions may become less marketable, less competitive or obsolete. Competitors may also impede our attempts to create interoperability between our solutions and competitive offerings, which may decrease demand for our solutions. 22 Table of Contents We could incur substantial costs as a result of any claim of infringement of another party's intellectual property rights. In recent years, there has been significant litigation involving patents and other intellectual property rights in the software industry. Companies providing software are increasingly bringing and becoming subject to suits alleging infringement of proprietary rights, particularly patent rights, and to the extent we gain greater market visibility, we face a higher risk of being the subject of intellectual property infringement claims. We do not have a significant patent portfolio, which could prevent us from deterring patent infringement claims through our own patent portfolio, and our competitors and others may now and in the future have significantly larger and more mature patent portfolios than we have. The risk of patent litigation has been amplified by the increase in the number of a type of patent holder, which we refer to as a non-practicing entity, whose sole business is to assert such claims and against whom our own intellectual property portfolio may provide little deterrent value. We could incur substantial costs in prosecuting or defending any intellectual property litigation. If we sue to enforce our rights or are sued by a third party that claims that our solutions infringe its rights, the litigation could be expensive and could divert our management resources. In addition, in most instances, we have agreed to indemnify our customers against claims that our solutions infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties. From time to time we have in the past received, and may in the future receive, requests for indemnification from our customers based on such claims. Our business could be adversely affected by any significant disputes between us and our customers as to the applicability or scope of our indemnification obligations to them. Any intellectual property litigation to which we might become a party, or for which we are required to provide indemnification, may require us to do one or more of the following: •cease selling or using solutions that incorporate the intellectual property that we allegedly infringe; •make substantial payments for legal fees, settlement payments or other costs or damages; •obtain a license, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all, to sell or use the relevant technology; or •redesign the allegedly infringing solutions to avoid infringement, which could be costly, time-consuming or impossible. If we are required to make substantial payments or undertake any of the other actions noted above as a result of any intellectual property infringement claims against us or any obligation to indemnify our customers for such claims, such payments or actions could harm our business. We could incur substantial costs in protecting our intellectual property from infringement, and any failure to protect our intellectual property could impair our business. We seek to protect the source code for our proprietary software and other proprietary technology and information under a combination of copyright, trade secrets and patent law, and we seek to protect our brand through trademark law. Our policy is to enter into confidentiality agreements, or agreements with confidentiality provisions, with our employees, consultants, vendors and customers and to control access to our software, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for unauthorized parties to copy our software or other proprietary technology or information, or to develop similar software independently. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our solutions or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our solutions, especially the on-premise, installed version of our solutions, is difficult, and we are unable to determine the extent to which piracy of our software exists or will occur 23 Table of Contents in the future. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets, determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Such litigation could be costly, time-consuming and distracting to management, result in a diversion of resources, the narrowing or invalidation of portions of our intellectual property and have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights or alleging that we infringe the counterclaimant's own intellectual property. These steps may be inadequate to protect our intellectual property. Third parties may challenge the validity or ownership of our intellectual property, and these challenges could cause us to lose our rights, in whole or in part, to such intellectual property or narrow its scope such that it no longer provides meaningful protection. We will not be able to protect our intellectual property if we are unable to enforce our rights or if we do not detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy our products and use information that we regard as proprietary to create products and services that compete with ours. Some license provisions protecting against unauthorized use, copying, transfer and disclosure of our solutions may be unenforceable under the laws of certain jurisdictions and foreign countries. Further, the laws of some countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. To the extent we expand our international activities, our exposure to unauthorized copying, transfer and use of our solutions and proprietary technology or information may increase. There can be no assurance that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop similar technology. If we fail to meaningfully protect our intellectual property, our business, brand, operating results and financial condition could be materially harmed. We rely on third-party software that is required for the development and deployment of our solutions, which may be difficult to obtain or which could cause errors or failures of our solutions. We rely on software licensed from or hosted by third parties to offer our solutions. In addition, we may need to obtain licenses from third parties to use intellectual property associated with the development of our solutions, which might not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Any loss of the right to use any software required for the development, maintenance and delivery of our solutions could result in delays in the provision of our solutions until equivalent technology is either developed by us, or, if available, is identified, obtained and integrated, which could harm our business. Any errors or defects in third-party software could result in errors or a failure of our solutions which could harm our business. If our solutions contain serious errors or defects we may lose revenue and market acceptance and may incur costs to defend or settle product liability claims. Complex software applications such as ours often contain errors or defects, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Our current and future solutions may contain serious defects, which could result in lost revenue or a delay in market acceptance. Since our customers use our solutions for critical business purposes, defects or other performance problems could negatively impact our customers. They could seek significant compensation from us for the losses they suffer. Although our customer agreements typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to such claims, existing or future laws or unfavorable judicial decisions could negate these limitations. Even if not successful, a product liability claim brought against us would likely be a distraction to management, time-consuming and costly to resolve, and could seriously damage our reputation in the marketplace, making it harder for us to sell our solutions and professional services. 24 Table of Contents Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate in the future. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of research analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline and you may lose part or all of your investment. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. If our quarterly operating results or outlook fall below the expectations of research analysts or investors, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results or outlook may be due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those listed below: •the extent to which our existing customers purchase additional subscriptions to our solutions or perpetual licenses to our solutions and the timing and terms of those purchases; •the extent to which our existing customers renew their subscriptions for our solutions or maintenance for our solutions and the timing and terms of those renewals; •the extent to which new customers are attracted to our solutions to satisfy their Agile management needs; •the rate of adoption and market acceptance of Agile management solutions; •the mix of our revenue, particularly between perpetual licenses and subscriptions for which the timing of revenue recognition is substantially different; •the extent to which we enter into multi-year contracts, in which the fees are typically paid upfront; •the addition or loss of large customers, including through acquisitions or consolidations; •the number and size of new customers and the number and size of renewals in a particular period; •changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; •changes in the gross profit we realize on our solutions and professional services due to our differing revenue recognition policies applicable to perpetual licenses and subscription and support revenue and other variables; •the amount and timing of operating expenses, including those related to the maintenance and expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure; •the timing and success of new solutions introduced by us or new offerings offered by our competitors; •the length of our sales cycles; •other changes in the competitive dynamics of our industry, including consolidation among competitors, customers or strategic collaborators; •the timing of expenses related to the development of new products and technologies, including enhancements to our solutions; •the timing of commissions earned by our sales personnel; •our ability to manage our existing business and future growth, including increases in the number of customers on our platform; •the seasonality of our business; •the timing and expenses related to any international expansion efforts we may undertake and the success of such efforts; 25 Table of Contents •various factors related to disruptions in our cloud-based infrastructure, defects in our solutions, privacy and data security and exchange rate fluctuations, each of which is described elsewhere in these risk factors; and •general economic, industry and market conditions. We believe that our quarterly revenue and operating results may vary significantly in the future and that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. You should not rely on the results of one quarter as an indication of future performance. Perpetual license revenue is unpredictable and a material increase or decrease in perpetual license revenue from period-to-period can produce substantial variation in the total revenue we recognize in a given period. We generally recognize perpetual license revenue upon delivery of our solutions to the customer. The timing of sales of perpetual licenses is difficult to predict and, as a result, the timing of recognition of associated revenue is unpredictable. A material increase or decrease in the sale of perpetual licenses from period to period could produce substantial variation in the revenue we recognize. Accordingly, comparing our perpetual license revenue on a period-to-period basis may not be a meaningful indicator of a trend or future results. Fluctuations in the exchange rate of foreign currencies could result in currency transactions losses. We currently do not invoice customers in foreign currency but may decide to do so in the future. We incur a portion of our operating expenses in Euros, British pounds sterling, Australian dollars, Canadian dollars and Singaporean dollars, and in the future as we expand into other foreign countries, we expect to incur operating expenses in other foreign currencies. Any fluctuation in the exchange rate of these foreign currencies may negatively impact our business, financial condition and operating results. We have not previously engaged in foreign currency hedging. If we decide to hedge our foreign currency exposure, we may not be able to hedge effectively due to lack of experience, unreasonable costs or illiquid markets. Changes in laws or regulations related to the Internet may diminish the demand for our solutions and could have a negative impact on our business. We deliver our cloud-based solutions through the Internet. Federal, state or foreign government bodies or agencies have in the past adopted, and may in the future adopt, laws or regulations affecting data privacy and the use of the Internet. In addition, government agencies or private organizations may begin to impose taxes, fees or other charges for accessing the Internet or on commerce conducted via the Internet. These laws or charges could limit the viability of Internet-based solutions such as ours and reduce the demand for our solutions. We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could impair our ability to compete in international markets due to licensing requirements and subject us to liability if we are not in compliance with applicable laws. Our solutions are subject to export control and import laws and regulations, including the U.S. Export Administration Regulations, U.S. Customs regulations and various economic and trade sanctions regulations administered by the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Controls. Exports of our solutions must be made in compliance with these laws and regulations. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we and certain of our employees could be subject to substantial civil or criminal penalties, including: the possible loss of export or import privileges; fines, which may be imposed on us and responsible employees or managers; and, in extreme cases, the incarceration of responsible employees or managers. Obtaining the necessary authorizations, including any required license, for a particular sale may be time-consuming, is not guaranteed and may result in the delay or 26 Table of Contents loss of sales opportunities. In addition, changes in our solutions or changes in applicable export or import regulations may create delays in the introduction and sale of our solutions in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our solutions or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our solutions to certain countries, governments or persons altogether. Any change in export or import regulations, shift in the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, governments, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could also result in decreased use of our solutions, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our solutions to existing or potential customers with international operations. Any decreased use of our solutions or limitation on our ability to export or sell our solutions would likely adversely affect our business. Furthermore, we incorporate encryption technology into certain of our solutions. Various countries regulate the import of certain encryption technology, including through import permitting and licensing requirements, and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our solutions or could limit our customers' ability to implement our solutions in those countries. Encrypted solutions and the underlying technology may also be subject to export control restrictions. Governmental regulation of encryption technology and regulation of imports or exports of encryption products, or our failure to obtain required import or export approval for our solutions, when applicable, could harm our international sales and adversely affect our revenue. Compliance with applicable regulatory requirements regarding the export of our solutions, including with respect to new releases of our solutions, may create delays in the introduction of our solutions in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our solutions throughout their globally-distributed systems or, in some cases, prevent the export of our solutions to some countries altogether. Moreover, U.S. export control laws and economic sanctions programs prohibit the shipment of certain products and services to countries, governments and persons that are subject to U.S. economic embargoes and trade sanctions. Even though we take precautions to prevent our solutions from being shipped or provided to U.S. sanctions targets, our solutions and services could be shipped to those targets or provided by third parties despite such precautions. Any such shipment could have negative consequences, including government investigations, penalties and reputational harm. Our use of open source software could negatively affect our ability to sell our solutions and subject us to possible litigation. A portion of our technologies incorporate open source software, and we expect to continue to incorporate open source software in the future. Few of the licenses applicable to open source software have been interpreted by courts, and their application to the open source software integrated into our proprietary software may be uncertain. Moreover, we cannot provide assurance that we have not incorporated additional open source software in our software in a manner that is inconsistent with the terms of the license or our current policies and procedures. If we fail to comply with these licenses, we may be subject to certain requirements, including requirements that we offer our solutions that incorporate the open source software for no cost, that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon, incorporating or using the open source software and that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of applicable open source licenses. If an author or other third party that distributes such open source software were to allege that we had not complied with the conditions of one or more of these licenses, we could be required to incur significant legal expenses defending against such allegations and could be subject to significant damages, enjoined from the sale of our solutions that contained the open source software and required to comply with the foregoing conditions, which could disrupt the distribution and sale of some of our solutions. In addition, there have been claims challenging the ownership of open source software against companies that incorporate open source software into their products. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming infringement due to the reliance by our solutions on certain open source software. 27 Table of Contents Litigation could be costly for us to defend, have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition or require us to devote additional research and development resources to change our solutions. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired, which could harm our operating results, our ability to operate our business and comply with SEC regulations and investors' views of us. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place so that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated frequently. Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. As a newly public company, we are continuing to develop and refine the process of documenting, reviewing and improving our internal controls and procedures for compliance with Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which will require annual management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We may need additional finance and accounting personnel with certain skill sets to assist us with our reporting requirements as a public company and to support our anticipated growth. Our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to formally attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting until the later of our second annual report or the first annual report required to be filed with the SEC following the date we are no longer an "emerging growth company" as defined in the JOBS Act. At such time, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is adverse in the event it is not satisfied with the level at which our controls are documented, designed or operating. Our remediation efforts may not enable us to avoid a material weakness in the future. We will remain an "emerging growth company" for up to five years following our initial public offering, although, we would cease to be an "emerging growth company" upon the earliest of (i) the first fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of our initial public offering, (ii) the first fiscal year after our annual gross revenue is $1 billion or more, (iii) the date on which we have, during the previous three-year period, issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt securities, or (iv) the date on which we are deemed to be a "large accelerated filer" as defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act. Implementing changes to our internal controls may distract our officers and employees, entail substantial costs to modify our existing processes and take significant time to complete. These changes may not, however, be effective in maintaining the adequacy of our internal controls, and any failure to maintain that adequacy, or consequent inability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, could increase our operating costs and harm our business. In addition, investors' perceptions that our internal controls are inadequate or that we are unable to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis may harm our stock price and make it more difficult for us to effectively market and sell our solutions to new and existing customers. We are an "emerging growth company," and any decision on our part to comply with certain reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies could make our common stock less attractive to investors. We are an "emerging growth company," as defined in the JOBS Act and, for as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we may choose to take advantage of exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies including, but not limited to (i) not being required to have our internal control over financial reporting audited by our independent registered public accounting firm pursuant to Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; (ii) reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements; 28 Table of Contents and (iii) exemptions from the requirements to hold a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and to obtain stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive if we choose to rely on these exemptions. We will incur additional expenses when we eventually are required to comply with the requirements applicable to a public company that is not an emerging growth company. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result of any choices to reduce future disclosure, there may be a less-active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. Under Section 107(b) of the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this exemption from new or revised accounting standards and, therefore, we will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies. We will continue to incur significant costs and devote substantial management time as a result of operating as a newly public company. As a newly public company, we expect to continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other legislation and rules implemented by the SEC, and the New York Stock Exchange impose various requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel have and will continue to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance requirements. These burdens may increase as new legislation is passed and implemented, including any new requirements that the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 may impose on public companies. Moreover, despite recent reform made possible by the JOBS Act, compliance with these rules and regulations, along with compliance with accounting principles and regulatory interpretations of such principles, have increased and will continue to increase our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs and have made and will continue to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our Board of Directors or committees, or as executive officers. We may acquire companies which may divert our management's attention, result in additional dilution to our stockholders and consume resources that are necessary to sustain our business, and we may be unable to integrate acquired businesses and technologies successfully or achieve the expected benefits of such acquisitions. We may evaluate and consider potential strategic transactions, including acquisitions of, or investments in, businesses, technologies, services, products and other assets in the future. Negotiating these transactions can be time-consuming, difficult and expensive, and our ability to close these transactions may often be subject to conditions or approvals that are beyond our control. Consequently, these transactions, even if undertaken and announced, may not close. An acquisition may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. In particular, we may encounter difficulties assimilating or integrating the businesses, technologies, products, personnel or operations of the acquired companies, particularly if the key personnel of the acquired company choose not to work for us, the company's software is not easily adapted to work with ours or we have difficulty retaining the customers of the acquired business due to changes in management or otherwise. Acquisitions may also disrupt our business, divert our resources and require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for development of our business. Moreover, the anticipated 29 Table of Contents benefits of any acquisition, investment or business relationship may not be realized or we may be exposed to unknown risks or liabilities. For one or more of those transactions, we may: •issue additional equity securities that would dilute our stockholders; •use cash that we may otherwise need in the future to operate our business; •incur debt on terms unfavorable to us or that we are unable to repay; •incur large charges or substantial liabilities; •encounter difficulties retaining key employees of the acquired company or integrating diverse software codes or business cultures; and •become subject to adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges. Any of these outcomes could harm our business and operating results. The loss of key personnel or an inability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel may impair our ability to grow our business. We are highly dependent upon the continued service and performance of our senior management team and other key personnel. These key employees may terminate employment with us at any time with no advance notice. The replacement of these employees likely would involve significant time and costs, and the loss of these employees may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. We face intense competition for qualified individuals from numerous technology and software companies. If we fail to attract and retain suitably qualified individuals, including software engineers and sales personnel, our ability to implement our business plan and develop and maintain our solutions could be adversely affected. As a result, our ability to compete would decrease, our operating results would suffer and our revenue would decrease. Unanticipated changes in our effective tax rate or challenges by tax authorities could harm our future results. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of our pre-tax earnings and losses in countries with differing statutory tax rates, certain non-deductible expenses as a result of acquisitions, the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in federal, state or international tax laws and accounting principles, including increased tax rates, new tax laws or revised interpretations of existing tax laws and precedents. Increases in our effective tax rate would reduce our profitability or in some cases increase our losses. In addition, we may be subject to income tax audits by many tax jurisdictions throughout the world, many of which have not established clear guidance on the tax treatment of cloud-based companies. Although we believe our income tax liabilities are reasonably estimated and accounted for in accordance with applicable laws and principles, an adverse resolution of one or more uncertain tax positions in any period could have a material impact on the results of operations for that period. Taxing authorities could reallocate our taxable income among our subsidiaries, which could increase our consolidated tax liability. We conduct integrated operations world-wide through subsidiaries in various tax jurisdictions pursuant to transfer pricing arrangements between our subsidiaries and between our subsidiaries and us. If two or more affiliated companies are located in different countries, the tax laws or regulations of each country generally require that transfer prices be the same as those between unrelated companies 30 Table of Contents dealing at arms' length and that contemporaneous documentation is maintained to support the transfer prices. While we believe that we operate in compliance with applicable transfer pricing laws and intend to continue to do so, our transfer pricing procedures are not binding on applicable tax authorities. If tax authorities in any of these countries were to successfully challenge our transfer prices as not reflecting arms' length transactions, they could require us to adjust our transfer prices and thereby reallocate our income to reflect these revised transfer prices, which could result in a higher tax liability to us. Such reallocations may subject us to interest and penalties that would increase our consolidated tax liability and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we fail to develop and maintain relationships with third parties, our business may be harmed. Our business depends in part on the development and maintenance of technology integration, joint sales and reseller relationships. Maintaining relationships with third parties requires significant time and resources, as does integrating third-party content and technology. Further, third parties may not perform as expected under any relationships that we may enter into, and we may have disagreements or disputes with third parties that could negatively affect our brand and reputation. If we are unsuccessful in establishing or maintaining relationships with third parties, our ability to compete in the marketplace or to grow our revenue could be impaired and our operating results could suffer. We use cloud-based services for critical business processes such as financial reporting and human resources, and our inability to access these systems or their inability to function as intended or as we expect them to function could harm our business. We use cloud-based services for critical business processes, such as human-capital management and payroll processing, processing, approval and payment of employee expense reports, managing our reporting obligations related to stock-based compensation, and as our primary financial reporting and enterprise resource application system. If our vendors experience service impairments or outages, some of which may be related to third parties with which they partner, it may inhibit our ability to adhere to certain commitments we have made, both internally and externally, related to the delivery of financial information, including our reporting obligations as a public company, and, therefore, harm our business. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock is likely to be volatile and could subject us to litigation. The trading price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. Since shares of our common stock were sold in our initial public offering in April 2013 at a price of $14.00 per share, our stock price has ranged from $15.46 to $33.05 through January 31, 2014. In addition, the trading prices of the securities of technology companies in general have been highly volatile, and the volatility in market price and trading volume of securities is often unrelated or disproportionate to the financial performance of the companies issuing the securities. In addition to the factors discussed in this "Risk Factors" section and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, factors affecting the market price of our common stock include: •actual or anticipated changes in our earnings or fluctuations in our operating results or in the expectations of securities analysts; •price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; •significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of comparable companies; •changes in the market perception of Agile software development generally or in the effectiveness of our solutions in particular; 31 Table of Contents •announcements of technological innovations, new products, strategic alliances or significant agreements by us or by our competitors; •litigation involving us; •investors' general perception of us; •changes in general economic, industry and market conditions and trends; and •recruitment or departure of key personnel. In addition, if the market for technology stocks or the stock market in general experiences uneven investor confidence, the market price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, operating results or financial condition. The market price of our common stock might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies within, or outside, our industry even if these events do not directly affect us. Some companies that have experienced volatility in the trading price of their stock have been the subject of securities class action litigation. If we are the subject of such litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources from our business. We may need financing in the future, and any additional financing may result in restrictions on our operations or substantial dilution to our stockholders. We may need to raise funds in the future, for example, to develop new technologies, expand our business, respond to competitive pressures, acquire complementary businesses or respond to unanticipated situations. We may try to raise additional funds through public or private financings, strategic relationships or other arrangements. Our ability to obtain debt or equity funding will depend on a number of factors, including market conditions, our operating performance and investor interest. Additional funding may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to reduce expenditures, including curtailing our growth strategies, reducing our product-development efforts or foregoing acquisitions. If we succeed in raising additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible securities, it could result in substantial dilution to existing stockholders. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of debt securities or preferred stock, these new securities would have rights, preferences, and privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock. The terms of these securities could impose restrictions on our operations. If securities or industry analysts do not publish, or cease publishing, research or reports about us, our business or our market, if they publish negative evaluations of our stock, or if we fail to meet the expectations of analysts, the price of our stock and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us, our business, our market or our competitors. If one or more of the analysts covering our business downgrade their evaluation of our stock, the price of our stock could decline. If one or more of these analysts cease to cover our stock or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the market for our stock, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Furthermore, if our operating results fail to meet analysts' expectations our stock price would likely decline. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could cause our stock price to fall. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market or the perception that these sales might occur could depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We are unable to predict the effect that sales may have on the prevailing market price of our common stock. 32 Table of Contents Certain holders of shares of our common stock are entitled to rights with respect to the registration of their shares under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in the shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act, except for shares held by our affiliates as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Any sales of securities by these stockholders could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. Sales of common stock by existing stockholders in the public market, the availability of these shares for sale, our issuance of securities, or the perception that any of these events might occur may materially and adversely affect could reduce the market price of our common stock. In addition, the sale of these securities could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional stock. Our directors, executive officers and their affiliates beneficially own a significant percentage of our stock and are able to exert substantial control over matters subject to stockholder approval. As of January 31, 2014, our directors, executive officers, and their respective affiliates beneficially owned or controlled, directly or indirectly and including shares issuable upon the exercise of outstanding options and warrants exercisable within 60 days of January 31, 2014, in the aggregate approximately 14.1% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if they act together, could have significant influence over the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election or removal of directors, any amendments to our certificate of incorporation or bylaws and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets, and over the management and affairs of our company. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company or discouraging others from making tender offers for our shares, and might affect the market price of our common stock. Because we do not expect to pay any dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future, returns will be limited to changes in the value of our common stock. We do not anticipate that we will pay any cash dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Instead, we plan to retain any earnings to maintain and expand our existing operations. In addition, any credit facility that we may obtain in the future may contain terms prohibiting or limiting the amount of dividends that may be declared or paid on our common stock. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any return on their investment. Anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, might discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our Board of Directors or management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that may depress the market price of our common stock by acting to discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares of our common stock. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove members of our Board of Directors or our management. Our corporate governance documents include provisions: •establishing a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms so that not all members of our Board of Directors are elected at one time; •providing that directors may be removed by stockholders only for cause; 33 Table of Contents •limiting the ability of our stockholders to call and bring business before special meetings and to take action by written consent in lieu of a meeting; •requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our Board of Directors; •authorizing blank check preferred stock, which could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; and •limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which limits the ability of stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from engaging in certain business combinations with us. Any provision of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. The existence of the foregoing provisions and anti-takeover measures could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. They could also deter potential acquirers of our company, thereby reducing the likelihood that you could receive a premium for your common stock in an acquisition. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable 