Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves risks. The risks described below, should be considered in conjunction with the other information, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. If any of the following risks or other risks, which have not been identified or which we may believe are immaterial or unlikely, actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. In such a case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and shareholders may lose all or part of their investment. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. The current economic environment may present significant challenges for us and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are operating in a challenging and uncertain economic environment, including generally uncertain national conditions and local conditions in our markets. Financial institutions continue to be affected by sharp declines in the real estate market and constrained financial markets. While we are taking steps to decrease and limit our exposure to residential mortgage loans, home equity loans and lines of credit, and construction and land loans, we nonetheless retain direct exposure to the residential and commercial real estate markets, and we are affected by these events. Continued declines in real estate values, home sales volumes and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment, including job losses, could have an adverse effect on our borrowers or their customers, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The overall deterioration in economic conditions may subject us to increased regulatory scrutiny in the current environment. In addition, a national economic recession or further deterioration in local economic conditions in our markets could drive losses beyond that which is provided for in our allowance for loan losses and result in the following other consequences: loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures may increase; demand for our products and 15 services may decline; deposits may decrease, which would adversely impact our liquidity position; and collateral for our loans, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our existing loans. As a community bank, we are less able to spread the risk of unfavorable economic conditions than larger or more regional banks. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas even if they do occur. Recent negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets may adversely affect our operations and results. Negative developments in the latter half of 2007 and throughout 2008 in the subprime mortgage market and the securitization markets for such loans have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general with the expectation of the general economic downturn continuing into 2009. As a result of this “credit crunch,” commercial as well as consumer loan portfolio performances have deteriorated at many institutions and the competition for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. Bank and bank holding company stock prices have been negatively affected, as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets compared to recent years. As a result, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies have become very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the issuance of many formal enforcement orders. Negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets, and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments, may negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. We make and hold in our portfolio a significant number of land acquisition and development and construction loans, which pose more credit risk than other types of loans typically made by financial institutions. We offer land acquisition and development, and construction loans for builders and developers. As of December 31, 2008, approximately $41 million, or 5%, of our total loan portfolio represented loans for which the related property is neither presold nor preleased. These land acquisition and development, and construction loans are considered more risky than other types of loans. The primary credit risks associated with land acquisition and development and construction lending are underwriting, project risks, and market risks. Project risks include cost overruns, borrower credit risk, project completion risk, general contractor credit risk, and environmental and other hazard risks. Market risks are risks associated with the sale of the completed residential units. They include affordability risk, which means the risk that borrowers cannot obtain affordable financing, product design risk, and risks posed by competing projects. There can be no assurance that losses in our land acquisition and development and construction loan portfolio will not exceed our reserves, which could adversely impact our earnings. Given the current environment, the non-performing loans in our land acquisition and development and construction portfolio may increase substantially in 2009, and these non-performing loans could result in a material level of charge-offs, which will negatively impact our capital and earnings. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, which may require us to take a charge to our earnings and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. We maintain an allowance for estimated loan losses that we believe is adequate for absorbing any probable losses in our loan portfolio. Management determines the provision for loan losses based upon an analysis of general market conditions, credit quality of our loan portfolio, and performance of our customers relative to their financial obligations with us. We employ an outside vendor specializing in credit risk management to evaluate our loan portfolio for risk grading, which can result in changes in our allowance for estimated loan losses. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating, and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, that may be beyond our control, and such losses may exceed the allowance for estimated loan losses. Although management believes that the allowance for estimated loan losses is adequate to absorb any probable losses on existing loans that may become uncollectible, there can be no assurance that the allowance will prove sufficient to cover actual loan losses in the future. Significant increases to the provision for loan losses may be 16 necessary if material adverse changes in general economic conditions occur or the performance of our loan portfolio deteriorates. Additionally, federal banking regulators, as an integral part of their supervisory function, periodically review the allowance for estimated loan losses. If these regulatory agencies require us to increase the allowance for estimated loan losses, it would have a negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Liquidity needs could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The primary sources of funds of the Bank are client deposits and loan repayments. While scheduled loan repayments are a relatively stable source of funds, they are subject to the ability of borrowers to repay the loans. The ability of borrowers to repay loans can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including changes in economic conditions, adverse trends or events affecting business industry groups, reductions in real estate values or markets, business closings or lay-offs, inclement weather, natural disasters and international instability. Additionally, deposit levels may be affected by a number of factors, including rates paid by competitors, general interest rate levels, regulatory capital requirements, returns available to clients on alternative investments and general economic conditions. Accordingly, we may be required from time to time to rely on secondary sources of liquidity to meet withdrawal demands or otherwise fund operations. Such sources include Federal Home Loan Bank advances, sales of securities and loans, and federal funds lines of credit from correspondent banks, as well as out-of-market time deposits. While we believe that these sources are currently adequate, there can be no assurance they will be sufficient to meet future liquidity demands, particularly if we continue to grow and experience increasing loan demand. We may be required to slow or discontinue loan growth, capital expenditures or other investments or liquidate assets should such sources not be adequate. Many of our borrowers have more than one loan or credit relationship with us. Many of our borrowers have more than one commercial real estate or commercial business loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one commercial loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to, for example, a one-to-four family residential mortgage loan. We could suffer loan losses from a decline in credit quality. We could sustain losses if borrowers, guarantors and related parties fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. We have adopted underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and policies, including the establishment and review of the allowance for credit losses that we believe are appropriate to minimize this risk by assessing the likelihood of nonperformance, tracking loan performance and diversifying our credit portfolio. These policies and procedures, however, may not prevent unexpected losses that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Our concentration in loans secured by real estate may increase our credit losses, which would negatively affect our financial results. We offer a variety of secured loans, including commercial lines of credit, commercial term loans, real estate, construction, home equity, consumer and other loans. Many of our loans are secured by real estate (both residential and commercial) in our market areas. Consequently, a decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are more geographically diverse. In addition to underwriting based on the financial strength and cash flow characteristics of the borrower in each case, we often secure loans with real estate used as collateral. At December 31, 2008, approximately 90.0% of our loans had real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. 17 Risk of loan defaults and foreclosures are unavoidable in the banking industry, and we try to limit our exposure to this risk by monitoring our extensions of credit carefully. We cannot fully eliminate credit risk, and as a result credit losses may occur in the future. Declines in real estate values have adversely affected our credit quality and profitability. During 2007 and 2008, confidence in the credit market for residential housing finance eroded, which resulted in a reduction in financing available to buyers of new homes and borrowers wishing to refinance existing financing terms. The tightening of credit for residential housing led to lower demand for residential housing and more foreclosures, and has reduced the absorption rate for new and existing properties. In turn, this has caused market prices to fall as some property owners, including lenders who acquired property by foreclosure, have accepted lower prices to reduce their exposure to these real estate assets, which has reduced the market values for comparable real estate. The declines in values and the increased level of marketing required to sell properties has reduced or eliminated the potential profits to many of the builders and developers of properties to whom we have extended loans. As a result, some of these borrowers have been unable to repay their loans in accordance with their terms, which has led to an increase in our past due and non-performing loans. If these housing trends continue or exacerbate, the Company expects that it will continue to experience increased delinquencies and credit losses. Moreover, if the recession continues to negatively impact economic conditions in the United States as a whole or specific regions of the country, the Company could experience significantly higher delinquencies and credit losses. An increase in credit losses would reduce earnings and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition. Furthermore, to the extent that real estate collateral is obtained through foreclosure, the costs of holding and marketing the real estate collateral, as well as the ultimate values obtained from disposition, could reduce the Company’s earnings and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition. The Company’s business volume and growth is affected by the rate of growth and demand for housing in specific geographic markets. Based on the activity discussed above, the Company expects that its level of historical growth could be significantly curtailed and its assets may in fact shrink, depending on the duration and extent of the current disruption in the housing and mortgage markets. The current disruption may expand and adversely impact the U.S. economy in general and the housing and mortgage markets in particular. In addition, a variety of legislative, regulatory and other proposals have been introduced in an effort to address the disruption. Depending on the scope and nature of legislative, regulatory or other initiatives, if any, that are adopted to respond to this disruption and applied to the Company, its financial condition, results of operations or liquidity could, directly or indirectly, benefit or be adversely affected in a manner that could be material to its business. Changes in the interest rate environment could reduce our profitability. As a financial institution, our earnings significantly depend on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that we earn on interest-earning assets, such as investment securities and loans, and the interest expense that we pay on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Therefore, any change in general market interest rates, including changes in the Federal Reserve Boards’ fiscal and monetary policies, affects us more than non-financial institutions and can have a significant effect on our net interest income and total income. Our assets and liabilities may react differently to changes in overall market rates or conditions because there may be mismatches between the repricing or maturity characteristics of the assets and liabilities. As a result, an increase or decrease in market interest rates could have material adverse effects on our net interest margin and results of operations. Since January 2008, in response to the dramatic deterioration of the subprime, mortgage, credit, and liquidity markets, the Federal Reserve has taken action on seven occasions to reduce interest rates by a total of 400 to 425 basis points, which has reduced our net interest income and will likely continue to reduce this income for the foreseeable future. Any reduction in our net interest income will negatively affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, operating results, cash flows and, potentially, the price of our securities. Additionally, in 2009, we expect to have continued margin pressure given these historically low interest rates, along with elevated levels of non-performing assets. At December 31, 2008, we were in an asset sensitive position over a four to five month period after which 18 we turn liability sensitive. Generally this means that changes in interest rates affect our interest earned on assets quicker than our interest paid for liabilities since the rates earned on our assets reset sooner than rates paid on our liabilities. Accordingly, we anticipate that interest rate decreases by the Federal Reserve throughout 2008 will have a negative effect on our interest income over the short term until the interest rates paid on our liabilities reset. In addition, we cannot predict whether interest rates will continue to remain at present levels. Changes in interest rates may cause significant changes, up or down, in our net interest income. Depending on our portfolio of loans and investments, our results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. Our reliance on time deposits, including out-of-market certificates of deposit, as a source of funds for loans and our other liquidity needs could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Among other sources of funds, we rely heavily on deposits for funds to make loans and to provide for our other liquidity needs. However, our loan demand has exceeded the rate at which we have been able to build core deposits, so we have relied heavily on time deposits, including out-of-market certificates of deposit, as a source of funds. Out-of-market certificates of deposit as of December 31, 2008 represented 46.2% of our total deposits. Those deposits may not be as stable as other types of deposits and, in the future, depositors may not renew those time deposits when they mature, or we may have to pay a higher rate of interest to attract, keep or to replace them with other deposits or with funds from other sources. Not being able to attract time deposits, or to keep or replace them as they mature, would adversely affect our liquidity. Paying higher deposit rates to attract, keep or replace those deposits could have a negative effect on our net interest margin and results of operations. The impact of the current economic downturn on the performance of other financial institutions in our primary market area, actions taken by our competitors to address the current economic downturn, and the public perception of and confidence in the economy generally, and the banking industry specifically, could negatively impact our performance and operations. All financial institutions are subject to the same risks resulting from a weakening economy such as increased charge-offs and levels of past due loans and nonperforming assets. The perception that troubled banking institutions (and smaller banking institutions that are not “in trouble”) are risky institutions for purposes of regulatory compliance or safeguarding deposits may cause depositors nonetheless to move their funds to larger institutions. If our depositors should move their funds based on events happening at other financial institutions, our operating results would suffer. The FDIC Deposit Insurance assessments that we are required to pay may materially increase in the future, which would have an adverse effect on our earnings. As an insured depository institution, we are required to pay quarterly deposit insurance premium assessments to the FDIC. These assessment are required to ensure that FDIC deposit insurance reserve ratio is at least 1.15% of insured deposits. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we paid $515,000 in deposit insurance assessments. Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the FDIC, absent extraordinary circumstances, must establish and implement a plan to restore the deposit insurance reserve ratio to 1.15% of insured deposits, over a five-year period, when the reserve ratio falls below 1.15%. The recent failures of several financial institutions have significantly increased the Deposit Insurance Fund’s loss provisions, resulting in a decline in the reserve ratio. The FDIC expects a higher rate of insured institution failures in the next few years, which may result in a continued decline in the reserve ratio. Beginning on January 1, 2009, there was a uniform seven basis points (annualized) increase to the assessments that banks pay for deposit insurance. The increased assessment rates range from 12 to 50 basis points (annualized) for the first quarter 2009 assessment, which will be owed on June 30, 2009. Beginning on April 1, 2009, the FDIC will modify the risk-based assessments to account for each institution’s unsecured debt, secured liabilities and use of brokered deposits. Assessment rates will range from 7 to 77.5 basis points (annualized) starting with the second quarter 2009 assessments, which will be owed on September 30, 2009. In addition, the FDIC has adopted an interim rule to impose an emergency assessment of 20 basis points as of June 30, 2009, which will be owed on September 30, 2009. The FDIC may also impose additional emergency special assessments of up to 10 basis points thereafter if the reserve ratio is estimated to fall to a level that the FDIC believes would adequately 19 affect public confidence or to a level that shall be close to zero or negative at the end of a calendar quarter. If the FDIC imposes additional emergency assessments, or otherwise further increases assessment rates, our earnings could be further adversely impacted. The U.S. government’s plan to purchase large amounts of illiquid, mortgage-backed and other securities from financial institutions may not be effective and/or it may not be available to us. In response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and the going concern threats to the ability of investment banks and other financial institutions, the U.S. Congress adopted the new Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (“EESA”). The primary feature of the EESA is the establishment of a troubled asset relief program (“TARP”), under which the U.S. Treasury Department is authorized to spend up to $700 billion to invest in financial institutions (or potentially other entities), purchase troubled assets, including mortgage-backed and other securities, from financial institutions, and take other actions as it deems necessary to stabilize the financial markets. There can be no assurance as to what impact the TARP will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility currently being experienced. The failure of the U.S. government to execute this program expeditiously could have a material adverse effect on the financial markets, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because the rules and guidelines are continuing to evolve and our potential participation is subject to regulatory and governmental approval, we are unable to assess whether our securities will be purchased pursuant to the TARP Capital Purchase Program or the extent to which participation in the program would be beneficial to us. We need to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We anticipate that our capital resources will continue to satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We may at some point, however, need to raise additional capital to support our operations. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot be assured of our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially impaired. Our access to additional short-term funding to meet our liquidity needs is limited. We must maintain, on a daily basis, sufficient funds to cover withdrawals from depositors’ accounts and to supply new borrowers with funds. We routinely monitor asset and liability maturities in an attempt to match maturities to meet liquidity needs. To meet our cash obligations, we rely on repayments as assets mature, keep cash on hand, maintain account balances with correspondent banks, purchase and sell federal funds, purchase brokered deposits and maintain a line of credit with the Federal Home Loan Bank and with the Federal Reserve Bank. If we are unable to meet our liquidity needs through loan and other asset repayments and our cash on hand, we may need to borrow additional funds. Currently, our access to additional borrowed funds is limited and we may be required to pay above market rates for additional borrowed funds, which may adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to extensive regulation, including regulation of our capital levels, which could limit or restrict our activities. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by the Department, the FDIC, and the Federal Reserve Board. Our compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits, and locations of banking offices. 20 We must also meet regulatory capital requirements. If we fail to meet these capital and other regulatory requirements, our financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. At December 31, 2008, we were “well capitalized” and “well managed” for regulatory purposes. Our failure to be “well capitalized” and “well managed” could negatively affect our liquidity and our results of operations, which in turn would affect the manner in which we are regulated by state and federal banking regulators. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could continue to change at any time, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. For example, new legislation or regulation could limit the manner in which we may conduct our business, including our ability to obtain financing, attract deposits, and make loans. Many of these regulations are intended to protect depositors, the public, and the FDIC, not shareholders and noteholders. In addition, the burden imposed by these regulations may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors who are less regulated. The laws, regulations, interpretations, and enforcement policies that apply to us have been subject to significant changes in recent years, sometimes retroactively applied, and may change significantly in the future. Our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. See “Supervision and Regulation.” If we experience greater loan losses than anticipated, it could have an adverse effect on our net income. While the risk of nonpayment of loans is inherent in banking, if we experience greater nonpayment levels than we anticipate, our earnings and overall financial condition could be adversely affected. The amount of future loan losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, and these loan losses could exceed our current estimates. As such, we cannot assure you that our monitoring procedures and policies will mitigate certain lending risks or that our allowance for loan losses will be adequate to cover actual losses. In addition, as a result of the rapid growth in our loan portfolio, loan losses may be greater than management’s estimates of the appropriate level for the allowance. Loan losses can cause insolvency and failure of a financial institution and, in such an event, our shareholders could lose their entire investment. In addition, future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect our profitability. Any loan losses will reduce the loan loss allowance. A reduction in the loan loss allowance will be restored by an increase in our provision for loan losses, which would reduce our net income. Environmental liability associated with lending activities could result in losses.. In the course of our business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing our loans. If hazardous substances are discovered on any of these properties, we may be liable to governmental entities or third parties for the costs of remediation of the hazard, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Many environmental laws can impose liability regardless of whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the contamination. In addition, if we arrange for the disposal of hazardous or toxic substances at another site, we may be liable for the costs of cleaning up and removing those substances from the site, even if we neither own no operate the disposal site. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially limit the use of properties that we acquire through foreclosure, reduce their value or limit our ability to sell them in the event of a default on the loans they secure. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. If we fail to retain our key employees, our growth and profitability could be adversely affected. Our success is, and is expected to remain highly dependent on our executive management team, consisting of Mark A. Stevens, Gary P. Hall, Carol W. Soto, Edward P. Loomis and Brandon L. Mercer. This is particularly true because, as a community bank, we depend on our management team’s ties to the community to generate business. Our growth will continue to place significant demands on our management, and the loss of any such person’s services may have an adverse effect upon our growth and profitability. 21 Our corporate culture has contributed to our success, and if we cannot maintain this culture, we could lose the teamwork and increased productivity fostered by our culture, which could harm our business. We believe that a critical contributor to our success has been our corporate culture, which we believe fosters teamwork and increased productivity. As our organization grows and we are required to implement more complex management structures, we may find it increasingly difficult to maintain the beneficial aspects of our corporate culture. This could negatively impact our future success. As a community bank, we have different lending risks than larger banks. We provide services to our local communities. Our ability to diversify our economic risks is limited by our own local markets and economies. We lend primarily to small to medium-sized businesses, and, to a lesser extent, individuals which may expose us to greater lending risks than those of banks lending to larger, better-capitalized businesses with longer operating histories. We manage our credit exposure through careful monitoring of loan applicants and loan concentrations in particular industries, and through loan approval and review procedures. We have established an evaluation process designed to determine the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses. While this evaluation process uses historical and other objective information, the classification of loans and the establishment of loan losses is an estimate based on experience, judgment and expectations regarding our borrowers, the economies in which we and our borrowers operate, as well as the judgment of our regulators. We cannot assure you that our loan loss reserves will be sufficient to absorb future loan losses or prevent a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. If our loan loss reserves are insufficient to absorb future loan losses, it may have an adverse affect on our results of operations. Competition from other financial institutions may adversely affect our profitability. The banking business is highly competitive, and we experience strong competition from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds and other financial institutions, which operate in our primary market areas and elsewhere. As of June 30, 2008, 18 commercial banks serve our central Georgia service area with a total of 95 branches, 28 banks serve our coastal Georgia service area with a total of 158 branches, 17 banks serve Lowndes County in Georgia with a total of 38 branches, and 34 banks serve Duval County in Florida with a total of 201 branches. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we have to attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Many of our competitors are well-established and much larger financial institutions. While we believe we can and do successfully compete with these other financial institutions in our markets, we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size and lack of geographic diversification. Although we compete by concentrating our marketing efforts in our primary market areas with local advertisements, personal contacts and greater flexibility in working with local customers, we can give no assurance that this strategy will be successful. We will face risks with respect to future expansion and acquisitions or mergers. We may seek to acquire other financial institutions or parts of those institutions. We may also expand into new markets or lines of business or offer new products or services. These activities would involve a number of risks, including: · the potential inaccuracy of the estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management, and market risks with respect to a target institution; 22 · the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring or retaining experienced local management, and opening new offices and the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion; · the incurrence and possible impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and possible adverse effects on our results of operations; and · the risk of loss of key employees and customers. Hurricanes or other adverse weather events could negatively affect our local economies or disrupt our operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. The economy in the coastal regions of Georgia and Florida are affected, from time to time, by adverse weather events, particularly hurricanes. Our coastal Georgia and northeast Florida market areas consist primarily of coastal communities, and we cannot predict whether, or to what extent, damage caused by future hurricanes will affect our operations, our customers or the economies in our banking markets. Weather events could cause a decline in loan originations, destruction or decline in the value of properties securing our loans, or an increase in the risks of delinquencies, foreclosures and loan losses, which would adversely affect our results of operations. 23 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no written comments from the Commission staff regarding our periodic or current reports under the Act which remain unresolved. 