ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business We have a limited operating history and limited experience as a REIT and we may not be able to successfully operate our business or generate sufficient revenue to make or sustain dividends to stockholders. We were recently organized in December 2004, and have a limited operating history and limited experience operating as a REIT. We are subject to all of the business risks and uncertainties associated with any new business, including the risk that we will not achieve our investment objectives and that the value of your investment could decline substantially. Our ability to achieve attractive risk-adjusted returns is dependent on our ability both to generate sufficient cash flow to pay an attractive dividend and to achieve capital appreciation, and we cannot assure you we will do either. There can be no assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient revenue from operations to pay our operating expenses and make or sustain dividends to stockholders. We are dependent on Deerfield Capital and may not find a suitable replacement if Deerfield Capital terminates the management agreement. We have no employees. Our officers are employees of Deerfield Capital. We have no separate facilities and are completely reliant on Deerfield Capital, which has significant discretion as to the implementation of our operating policies and strategies. We are subject to the risk that Deerfield Capital will terminate the management agreement and that no suitable replacement will be found to manage us. We believe that our success depends to a significant extent upon the experience of Deerfield Capital’s executive officers, whose continued service is not guaranteed. In addition, under our repurchase agreement with Credit Suisse First Boston LLC (with an aggregate amount of outstanding indebtedness of approximately $490.2 million as of December 31, 2005), it will be an event of default if Deerfield Capital ceases to be our manager. Such an event of default would cause a termination event, which would give Credit Suisse First Boston LLC the option to terminate all transactions existing with us and make any amount due by us to Credit Suisse First Boston LLC payable immediately. If Deerfield Capital terminates the management agreement, we may not be able to execute our business plan and may suffer losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Deerfield Capital has limited prior experience managing a REIT and we cannot assure you that Deerfield Capital’s past experience will be sufficient to successfully manage our business as a REIT. The federal income tax laws impose numerous constraints on the operations of REITs. Deerfield Capital’s limited experience in managing a portfolio of assets under these constraints may hinder its ability to achieve our investment objective. In addition, maintaining our REIT qualification limits the types of investments we are able to make. Our investors are not acquiring an interest in any of Deerfield Capital’s other managed entities or Triarc or its subsidiaries through the purchase of shares of our common stock. We can offer no assurance that Deerfield Capital will replicate its historical success or our management team’s success in its previous endeavors, and we caution you that our investment returns could be substantially lower than the returns achieved by those funds or previous endeavors. We are dependent upon Deerfield Capital’s key personnel for our success. We depend on the diligence, skill and network of business contacts of the senior management of Deerfield Capital and, through Deerfield Capital, of Triarc. The senior management of Deerfield Capital evaluates, negotiates, structures, closes and monitors our investments. Our continued success will depend on the continued service of the senior management team of Deerfield Capital. The departure of any of the senior managers of Deerfield Capital, or of a significant number of the investment professionals or principals of Deerfield or Triarc, could have a material adverse effect on our performance. In addition, we can offer no assurance that Deerfield Capital will remain our investment manager or that we will continue to have access to Deerfield’s or Triarc’s principals and professionals or their information and deal flow. Our base management fee is payable regardless of our performance. Deerfield Capital is entitled to receive a base management fee that is based on the amount of our equity (as defined in the management agreement), regardless of the performance of our portfolio. Deerfield Capital’s entitlement to substantial non-performance based compensation might reduce its incentive to devote its time and effort to seeking profitable opportunities for our portfolio. This in turn could hurt our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. 24 Our incentive fee may induce Deerfield Capital to make certain investments, including speculative investments. Deerfield Capital’s entitlement to an incentive fee may cause it to invest in high risk investments. In addition to its base management fee, Deerfield Capital is entitled to receive an incentive fee based in part upon our achievement of targeted levels of net income. In evaluating investments and other management strategies, the opportunity to earn an incentive fee based on net income may lead Deerfield Capital to place undue emphasis on the maximization of net income at the expense of other criteria, such as preservation of capital, in order to achieve higher incentive fee. Investments with higher yield potential are generally riskier or more speculative. This could result in increased risk to the value of our invested portfolio. Deerfield Capital manages our portfolio pursuant to very broad investment guidelines and our board does not approve each investment decision made by Deerfield Capital, which may result in our making riskier investments. Deerfield Capital is authorized to follow very broad investment guidelines. While our directors periodically review our investment guidelines and our investment portfolio, they do not review all of our proposed investments. In addition, in conducting periodic reviews, the directors may rely primarily on information provided to them by Deerfield Capital. Furthermore, Deerfield Capital may use complex strategies, and transactions that may be difficult or impossible to unwind by the time they are reviewed by the directors. Deerfield Capital has great latitude within the broad investment guidelines in determining the types of investments it makes for us. Poor investment decisions could have a material adverse effect on our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We may change our investment strategy and asset allocation without stockholder consent, which may result in riskier investments. We have not adopted a policy as to the amounts to be invested in each of our intended investments, including securities rated below investment grade. We may change our investment strategy or asset allocation, including the percentage of assets that may be invested in each class, or in the case of securities, in a single issuer, at any time without the consent of our stockholders, which could result in our making investments that are different from, and possibly riskier than, the investments described in this prospectus. A change in our investment strategy may increase our exposure to interest rate risk, default risk and real estate market fluctuations, all of which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to you. Furthermore, a change in our asset allocation could result in our making investments in instrument categories different from those described in this document. There are conflicts of interest in our relationship with Deerfield Capital, which could result in decisions that are not in the best interests of our stockholders. We are entirely dependent upon Deerfield Capital for our day-to-day management and do not have any independent officers. Our chairman, chief executive officer, president, chief financial officer and general counsel also serve as employees, officers and/or directors of Deerfield Capital and/or Triarc. In addition, certain of our other directors and all of the members of our Investment Committee are directors and/or officers of Deerfield, Deerfield Capital and/or Triarc. As a result, our management agreement with Deerfield Capital was negotiated between related parties and its terms, including fees payable, may not be as favorable to us as if it had been negotiated with an unaffiliated third party. Termination of the management agreement with Deerfield Capital without cause is difficult and costly. The management agreement provides that it may only be terminated without cause following the initial term expiring on December 31, 2007, annually upon the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of our independent directors, or by a vote of the holders of at least a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock, based upon (a) unsatisfactory performance by Deerfield Capital that is materially detrimental to us or (b) a determination that the management fee payable to Deerfield Capital is not fair, subject to Deerfield Capital’s right to prevent such a termination by accepting a mutually acceptable reduction of management fees that at least two-thirds of our independent directors determine to be fair. Deerfield Capital will be provided 180 days prior notice of any such termination and will be paid a termination fee equal to the amount of two times the sum of the average annual base management fee and the average annual incentive fees earned by Deerfield Capital during the two 12-month periods immediately preceding the date of termination, calculated as of the end of the most recently completed fiscal quarter prior to the date of termination. These provisions may increase the effective cost to us of terminating the management agreement, thereby adversely affecting our ability to terminate Deerfield Capital without cause. The ability of Deerfield Capital and its officers and employees to engage in other business activities may reduce the time Deerfield Capital spends managing us. The management compensation structure that we have agreed to with Deerfield Capital may cause Deerfield Capital to invest in potentially higher yielding investments. Investments with higher yield potential are generally riskier or more speculative. The fees we pay Deerfield Capital consists of both a base management fee that is not tied to our performance and an incentive management fee that is based entirely on our performance. The risk of the base management fee component is that it may not sufficiently incent Deerfield Capital to generate attractive risk-adjusted returns for us. The risk of the incentive fee component is that it may cause Deerfield Capital to place undue emphasis on the maximization of net income at the expense of other criteria, such as preservation of capital, in order to achieve a higher incentive fee. This could result in increased risk to the value of our invested portfolio. Subject to 25 certain limitations, Deerfield Capital will receive at least 15% of its incentive fee in the form of shares of our common stock, and, at Deerfield Capital’s option, may receive up to 100% of its incentive fee in the form of shares of our common stock. Deerfield Capital has the right in its discretion to allocate these shares to its officers, employees and other individuals who provide services to it. However, Deerfield Capital will not make any allocation of these shares prior to the first anniversary of the grant date. Any such shares received would have the benefit of registration rights. We may compete with future investment vehicles for access to Deerfield Capital. There can be no assurance that Deerfield Capital will not sponsor or manage other investment vehicles in the future. If any such investment vehicles have an investment focus similar to our focus, we may be competing for access to the benefits that we expect our relationship with Deerfield Capital to provide to us. Our investment portfolio is heavily concentrated in adjustable-rate MBS and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in achieving a more diversified portfolio. As of December 31, 2005, 90.4% of our investment portfolio consisted of RMBS. One of our key strategic objectives is to achieve a more diversified portfolio of investments that delivers attractive risk-adjusted returns. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in diversifying our investment portfolio and even if we are successful in diversifying our investment portfolio it is likely that approximately 80% of our fully leveraged assets will be MBS. If we are unable to achieve a more diversified portfolio, we will be particularly exposed to the investment risks that relate to investments in adjustable-rate MBS and we may suffer losses if investments in adjustable-rate MBS decline in value. We leverage our investments and incur other indebtedness, which may adversely affect our return on our investments and may reduce cash available for distribution. We leverage our investments through borrowings, generally through the use of warehouse facilities, bank credit facilities, repurchase agreements, secured loans, securitizations, including the issuance of CDOs, loans to entities in which we hold, directly or indirectly, interests in pools of assets, and other borrowings. We also incur other indebtedness from time to time such as our obligations resulting from the issuance of trust preferred securities. We are not limited in the amount of leverage we may use. The percentage of leverage we have at any given time varies depending on our ability to obtain credit facilities, the lender’s and rating agencies’ estimate of the stability of our investments’ cash flow and market conditions for debt securities. Our return on investments and cash available for distribution to our stockholders may be reduced to the extent that changes in market conditions increase the cost of our financing relative to the income that can be derived from the assets acquired. Our debt service payments will reduce cash flow available for distributions to stockholders. We may not be able to meet our debt service obligations and, to the extent that we cannot, we risk the loss of some or all of our assets to foreclosure or sale to satisfy the obligations. We leverage certain of our assets through repurchase agreements. A decrease in the value of these assets may lead to margin calls, which we will have to satisfy. We may not have the funds available to satisfy any such margin calls and may have to sell assets at a time when we might not otherwise choose to do so. Further, credit facility providers and other holders of our indebtedness may require us to maintain a certain amount of uninvested cash, to set aside unlevered assets sufficient to maintain a specified liquidity position which would allow us to satisfy our collateral obligations or to maintain certain minimum net worth. As a result, we may not be able to leverage our assets as fully as we would choose, which could reduce our return on assets. In the event that we are unable to meet these collateral obligations, our financial condition could deteriorate rapidly. Our failure to manage future growth effectively may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to achieve our investment objective depends on our ability to grow, which depends, in turn, on the senior management team of Deerfield Capital and its ability to identify and invest in securities that meet our investment criteria as well as on our access to financing on acceptable terms. Our ability to grow is also dependent upon Deerfield Capital’s ability to successfully hire, train, supervise and manage new employees. We may not be able to manage growth effectively or to achieve growth at all. Any failure to manage our future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. When we obtain financing, lenders could impose restrictions on us that would affect our ability to incur additional debt, our capability to make distributions to stockholders and our flexibility to determine our operating policies. Loan documents we execute might contain negative covenants that may limit, among other things, our ability to repurchase stock, distribute more than a certain amount of our funds from operations, and employ leverage beyond certain amounts. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. A number of entities compete with us to make the types of investments that we plan to make. We compete with other REITs, public and private funds, commercial and investment banks and commercial finance companies. Many of our competitors are 26 substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Several other REITs have recently raised significant amounts of capital, and may have investment objectives that overlap with ours, which may create competition for investment opportunities. Some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. We cannot assure you that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and we can offer no assurance that we will be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objective. Failure to procure adequate capital and funding would adversely affect our results and may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of shares of our common stock and our ability to distribute dividends. We depend upon the availability of adequate funding and capital for our operations. As a REIT, we are required to distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain, to our stockholders and are therefore not able to retain significant amounts of our earnings for new investments. However, Deerfield Triarc TRS Holdings, Inc., one of our TRSs, is able to retain earnings for investment in new capital, subject to the REIT requirements which place a limitation on the relative value of TRS stock and securities owned by a REIT. The failure to secure acceptable financing could reduce our taxable income, as our investments would no longer generate the same level of net interest income due to the lack of funding or increase in funding costs. A reduction in our net income would have an adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We cannot assure you that any, or sufficient, funding or capital will be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable to us. Therefore, in the event that we cannot obtain sufficient funding on acceptable terms, there may be a negative impact on the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions. If we issue senior securities we will be subject to additional restrictive covenants and limitations on our operating flexibility, which could adversely affect our ability to make distributions. If we decide to issue senior securities in the future, it is likely that they will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. Holders of senior securities may be granted specific rights, including but not limited to: the right to hold a perfected security interest in certain of our assets, the right to accelerate payments due under the indenture, rights to restrict dividend payments, and rights to require approval to sell assets. Additionally, any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock. We, and indirectly our stockholders, will bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities. We may not be able to successfully complete securitization transactions. In addition to issuing senior securities to raise capital as described above, we may, to the extent consistent with the REIT requirements, seek to securitize certain of our portfolio investments to generate cash for funding new investments. This would involve creating a special-purpose vehicle, contributing a pool of our assets to the entity, and selling interests in the entity on a non-recourse basis to purchasers (who we would expect to be willing to accept a lower interest rate to invest in investment grade loan pools). We would retain a portion of the equity in the securitized pool of portfolio investments. We will initially finance our investments with relatively short-term credit facilities. We may use these short-term facilities to finance the acquisition of securities until a sufficient quantity of securities is accumulated, at which time we intend to refinance these facilities through a securitization, such as a CDO issuance, or other financing. As a result, we are subject to the risk that we may not be able to acquire, during the period that our short-term facilities are available, a sufficient amount of eligible securities to maximize the efficiency of a CDO issuance. We also bear the risk that we may not be able to obtain short-term credit facilities or may not be able to renew any short-term credit facilities after they expire should we find it necessary to extend our short-term credit facilities to allow more time to seek and acquire the necessary eligible securities for a long-term financing. The inability to renew our short-term credit facilities may require us to seek more costly financing for our investments or to liquidate assets. In addition, conditions in the capital markets may make the issuance of a CDO impractical when we do have a sufficient pool of collateral. The inability to securitize our portfolio could hurt our performance and ability to grow our business. At the same time, the securitization of our portfolio investments might expose us to losses, as the residual portfolio investments in which we do not sell interests will tend to be riskier and more likely to generate losses. The use of CDO financings with over-collateralization requirements may have a negative impact on our cash flow. We expect that the terms of CDOs we may issue will generally provide that the principal amount of assets must exceed the principal balance of the related bonds by a certain amount, commonly referred to as over-collateralization. We anticipate that the CDO terms will provide that, if certain delinquencies and/or losses exceed specified levels, which we will establish based on the analysis by the rating agencies (or any financial guaranty insurer) of the characteristics of the assets collateralizing the bonds, our ability to receive net income from assets collateralizing the obligations will be restricted. We cannot assure you that the over-collateralization tests will be satisfied. In advance of completing negotiations with the rating agencies or other key transaction parties on our future CDO financings, we cannot assure you of the actual terms of the CDO, over-collateralization terms, cash flow release mechanisms or other significant factors regarding the calculation of net income to us. Failure to obtain favorable terms with regard to these matters 27 may materially and adversely affect the availability of net income to us. If our assets fail to perform as anticipated, our over-collateralization or other credit enhancement expense associated with our CDO financings will increase. An increase in our borrowing costs relative to the interest we receive on our assets may adversely affect our profitability, and thus our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. As our repurchase agreements and other short-term borrowings mature, we will be required either to enter into new borrowings or to sell certain of our investments at times when we might otherwise not choose to do so. An increase in short-term interest rates at the time that we seek to enter into new borrowings would reduce the spread between our returns on our assets and the cost of our borrowings. This would adversely affect the returns on our assets that are subject to prepayment risk, including our MBS, which might reduce earnings and, in turn, cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We may not be able to renew the total return swaps that we enter into, which could adversely impact our leveraging strategy. We may leverage certain of our investments through the use of total return swaps. We may wish to renew many of the swaps, which are for specified terms, as they mature. However, there is a limited number of providers of such swaps, and there is no assurance the initial swap providers will choose to renew the swaps, and if they do not renew that we would be able to obtain suitable replacement providers. Providers may choose not to renew our total return swaps for a number of reasons, including: • increases in the provider’s cost of funding; • insufficient volume of business with a particular provider; • a desire by our company to invest in a type of swap that the provider does not view as economically attractive due to changes in interest rates or other market factors; or • the inability of our company and a provider to agree on terms. Furthermore, our ability to invest in total return swaps, other than through a TRS, may be severely limited by the REIT qualification requirements because total return swaps are not qualifying assets and do not produce qualifying income for purposes of the REIT asset and income tests. Hedging against interest rate exposure may adversely affect our earnings, which could reduce our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We may pursue various hedging strategies to seek to reduce our exposure to losses from adverse changes in interest rates. Our hedging activity will vary in scope based on the level and volatility of interest rates, the type of assets held, and other changing market conditions. Interest rate hedging may fail to protect or could adversely affect us because, among other things: • interest rate hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of rising and volatile interest rates; • available interest rate hedges may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought; • the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability; • the amount of income that a REIT may earn from hedging transactions (other than through TRSs) to offset interest rate losses is limited by federal tax provisions governing REITs; • the credit quality of the party owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction; and • the party owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay. Our hedging activity may adversely affect our earnings, which could reduce our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Declines in the market values of our investments may adversely affect periodic reported results and credit availability, which may reduce earnings and, in turn, cash available for distribution to our stockholders. A substantial portion of our assets are classified for accounting purposes as available-for-sale. Changes in the market values of those assets are directly charged or credited to stockholders’ equity. As a result, a decline in values may reduce the book value of our assets. Moreover, if the decline in value of an available-for-sale security is other than temporary, such decline will reduce earnings. A decline in the market value of our assets may adversely affect us particularly in instances where we have borrowed money based on the market value of those assets. If the market value of those assets declines, the lender may require us to post additional collateral to support the borrowing. If we were unable to post the additional collateral, we would have to sell the assets at a time when we might not otherwise choose to do so. A reduction in credit available may reduce our earnings and, in turn, cash available for distribution to stockholders. 28 If we fail to achieve adequate operating cash flow, our ability to make distributions will be adversely affected. As a REIT, we must distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income to our stockholders, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain. Our ability to make and sustain cash distributions is based on many factors, including the return on our investments, operating expense levels and certain restrictions imposed by Maryland law. Some of the factors are beyond our control and a change in any such factor could affect our ability to pay future dividends, which may also have a negative impact on our stock price. No assurance can be given as to our ability to pay distributions. Loss of 1940 Act exclusion would adversely affect us and negatively affect the market price of shares of our common stock and the ability to distribute dividends. In order to be excluded from regulation under the 1940 Act, we must comply with the requirements of certain exclusions from the definition of investment company. Because we conduct our business through wholly-owned subsidiaries, we must ensure not only that we qualify for an exclusion or exemption from regulation under the 1940 Act, but also that each of our subsidiaries so qualifies. To ensure that our subsidiary, Deerfield Triarc Capital LLC, is not required to be regulated under the 1940 Act, we monitor its assets to ensure that at least 55% of its assets consist of qualifying real estate assets, and that at least 80% of its assets consist of real estate-related assets (including qualifying real estate assets). With respect to our other direct and indirect subsidiaries, we are careful that they do not make or propose to make a public offering of their securities, and we require that each owner of securities issued by those entities is a qualified purchaser. Finally, to ensure that Deerfield Triarc Capital Corp. itself qualifies for an exclusion from regulation under the 1940 Act, we make certain that no more than 40% of its assets, on an unconsolidated basis, excluding government securities and cash, are investment securities as defined in the 1940 Act. If we fail to satisfy the requirements provided in the 1940 Act to preserve our exemptions from regulation under the 1940 Act, we could be required to materially restructure our activities and to register as an investment company under the 1940 Act, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Rapid changes in the values of our MBS and other real estate related investments may make it more difficult for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT or exemption from the 1940 Act. If the market value or income potential of our MBS and other real estate related investments declines as a result of increased interest rates, prepayment rates or other factors, we may need to increase our real estate investments and income and/or liquidate our non-qualifying assets in order to maintain our REIT qualification or exemption from the 1940 Act. If the decline in real estate asset values and/or income occurs quickly, this may be especially difficult to accomplish. This difficulty may be exacerbated by the illiquid nature of many of our non-real estate assets. We may have to make investment decisions that we otherwise would not make absent the REIT and 1940 Act considerations. We are highly dependent on information systems and third parties, and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends. Our business is highly dependent on communications and information systems. Any failure or interruption of our systems could cause delays or other problems in our securities trading activities, including MBS trading activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may affect the market for our common stock, the industry in which we conduct our operations and our profitability. Terrorist attacks may harm our results of operations and your investment. We have no assurance that there will not be further terrorist attacks against the United States or U.S. businesses. These attacks or armed conflicts may directly impact the property underlying our ABS securities or the securities markets in general. Losses resulting from these types of events are uninsurable. More generally, any of these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the United States and worldwide financial markets and economy. Adverse economic conditions could harm the value of the property underlying our ABS or the securities markets in general, which could harm our operating results and revenues and may result in the volatility of the value of our securities. Risks Related to Our Investments We may not realize gains or income from our investments. We seek to generate both current income and capital appreciation. However, the securities we invest in may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value, and the debt securities we invest in may default on interest and/or principal payments. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains or income from our investments. Any gains that we do realize may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. Any income that we realize may not be sufficient to offset our expenses. 29 Our real estate investments are subject to risks particular to real property. We own assets secured by real estate and may own real estate directly. Real estate investments will be subject to various risks, including: • acts of God, including earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters, which may result in uninsured losses; • acts of war or terrorism, including the consequences of terrorist attacks, such as those that occurred on September 11, 2001; • adverse changes in national and local economic and market conditions; • changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and the related costs of compliance with laws and regulations, fiscal policies and ordinances; • costs of remediation and liabilities associated with environmental conditions such as indoor mold; and • the potential for uninsured or under-insured property losses. If any of these or similar events occurs, it may reduce our return from an affected property or investment and reduce or eliminate our ability to make distributions to stockholders. The mortgage loans, mortgage loans underlying MBS, and ABS we invest in are subject to delinquency, foreclosure and loss, which could result in losses to us. Commercial mortgage loans are secured by multifamily or commercial property and are subject to risks of delinquency and foreclosure, and risks of loss that are greater than similar risks associated with loans made on the security of single-family residential property. The ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by an income-producing property typically is dependent primarily upon the successful operation of such property rather than upon the existence of independent income or assets of the borrower. If the net operating income of the property is reduced, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Net operating income of an income-producing property can be affected by, among other things: tenant mix, success of tenant businesses, property management decisions, property location and condition, competition from comparable types of properties, changes in laws that increase operating expense or limit rents that may be charged, any need to address environmental contamination at the property, the occurrence of any uninsured casualty at the property, changes in national, regional or local economic conditions and/or specific industry segments, declines in regional or local real estate values, declines in regional or local rental or occupancy rates, increases in interest rates, real estate tax rates and other operating expenses, changes in governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies, including environmental legislation, acts of God, terrorism, social unrest and civil disturbances. Residential mortgage loans are secured by single-family residential property and are subject to risks of delinquency and foreclosure, and risks of loss. The ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by a residential property is dependent upon the income or assets of the borrower. A number of factors, including a general economic downturn, acts of God, terrorism, social unrest and civil disturbances, may impair borrowers’ abilities to repay their loans. ABS are bonds or notes backed by loans and/or other financial assets. The ability of a borrower to repay these loans or other financial assets is dependant upon the income or assets of these borrowers. In the event of any default under a mortgage loan held directly by us, we will bear a risk of loss of principal to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the collateral and the principal and accrued interest of the mortgage loan, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow from operations. In the event of the bankruptcy of a mortgage loan borrower, the mortgage loan to such borrower will be deemed to be secured only to the extent of the value of the underlying collateral at the time of bankruptcy (as determined by the bankruptcy court), and the lien securing the mortgage loan will be subject to the avoidance powers of the bankruptcy trustee or debtor-in-possession to the extent the lien is unenforceable under state law. Foreclosure of a mortgage loan can be an expensive and lengthy process, which could have a substantial negative effect on our anticipated return on the foreclosed mortgage loan. RMBS evidence interests in or are secured by pools of residential mortgage loans and CMBS evidence interests in or are secured by a single commercial mortgage loan or a pool of commercial mortgage loans. Accordingly, the MBS we invest in are subject to all of the risks of the underlying mortgage loans. We may not be able to identify satisfactory alternative investments to successfully balance the interest rate or mark-to-market risk inherent in our RMBS investments. If we are not able to identify and acquire satisfactory alternative investments, our portfolio will be concentrated in a less diversified portfolio of RMBS investments, increasing our dependence on these investments. Our investments in subordinated MBS could subject us to increased risk of losses. In general, losses on an asset securing a mortgage loan included in a securitization will be borne first by the equity holder of the property, then by a cash reserve fund or letter of credit provided by the borrower, if any, and then by the first loss subordinated security holder. In the event of default and the exhaustion of any equity support, reserve fund, letter of credit and any classes of 30 securities junior to those in which we invest, we may not be able to recover all of our investment in the securities we purchase. In addition, if the underlying mortgage portfolio has been overvalued by the originator, or if the values subsequently decline and, as a result, less collateral is available to satisfy delinquent interest and principal payments due on the related MBS, the securities in which we invest may effectively become the first loss position behind the more senior securities, which may result in significant losses to us. The prices of lower credit quality securities are generally less sensitive to interest rate changes than more highly rated investments, but more sensitive to adverse economic downturns or individual issuer developments. A projection of an economic downturn, for example, could cause a decline in the price of lower credit quality securities because the ability of obligors of mortgages underlying mortgage backed securities to make principal and interest payments or to refinance may be impaired. In this case, existing credit support in the securitization structure may be insufficient to protect us against loss of our principal on these securities. Our assets may include high yield and subordinated corporate securities that have greater risks of loss than secured senior loans and if those losses are realized, it could adversely affect our earnings, which could adversely affect our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Our assets include high yield and subordinated securities that involve a higher degree of risk than long-term senior secured loans. First, the high yield securities may not be secured by mortgages or liens on assets. Even if secured, these high yield securities may have higher loan-to-value ratios than a senior secured loan. Furthermore, our right to payment and the security interest may be subordinated to the payment rights and security interests of the senior lender. Therefore, we may be limited in our ability to enforce our rights to collect these loans and to recover any of the loan balance through a foreclosure of collateral. Certain of these high yield and subordinated securities may have an interest only payment schedule, with the principal amount remaining outstanding and at risk until the maturity of the obligation. In this case, a borrower’s ability to repay its obligation may be dependent upon a liquidity event that will enable the repayment of the obligation. In addition to the above, numerous other factors may affect a company’s ability to repay its obligation, including the failure to meet its business plan, a downturn in its industry or negative economic conditions. Deterioration in a company’s financial condition and prospects may be accompanied by deterioration in the collateral for the obligation. Losses in our high yield and subordinated securities could adversely affect our earnings, which could adversely affect cash available for distribution to our stockholders. High yield and subordinated securities from highly leveraged companies may have a greater risk of loss, which, in turn, could adversely affect cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Leverage may have material adverse consequences to the companies in which we will hold investments. These companies may be subject to restrictive financial and operating covenants. The leverage may impair these companies’ ability to finance their future operations and capital needs. As a result, these companies’ flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to business opportunities may be limited. A leveraged company’s income and net assets will tend to increase or decrease at a greater rate than if borrowed money were not used. As a result, leveraged companies have a greater risk of loss. Losses on our investments could adversely affect our earnings, which could adversely affect cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We may invest in the equity securities of CDOs, such as the Market Square CDO and the Pinetree CDO, and such investments involve various significant risks, including that CDO equity receives distributions from the CDO only if the CDO generates enough income to first pay the holders of its debt securities and its expenses. Our assets currently include the equity securities of two CDOs (Market Square CLO Ltd. and Pinetree CDO Ltd.). A CDO is a special purpose vehicle that purchases collateral (such as loans or asset-backed securities) that is expected to generate a stream of interest or other income. The CDO issues various classes of securities that participate in that income stream, typically one or more classes of debt instruments and a class of equity securities. The equity is usually entitled to all of the income generated by the CDO after the CDO pays all of the interest due on the debt securities and its expenses. However, there will be little or no income available to the CDO equity if there are defaults on the underlying collateral in excess of certain amounts or the recoveries on such defaulted collateral are less than certain amounts. In that event, the value of our investment in the CDOs equity could decrease substantially. In addition, the equity securities of CDOs are generally illiquid, and because they represent a leveraged investment in the CDO’s assets, the value of the equity securities will generally have greater fluctuations than the values of the underlying collateral. We may enter into warehouse agreements in connection with our planned investment in the equity securities of CDOs and if the investment in the CDO is not consummated, the warehoused collateral will be sold and we must bear any loss resulting from the purchase price of the collateral exceeding the sale price. In connection with our investment in CDOs that Deerfield Capital structures for us, we expect to enter into warehouse agreements with investment banks or other financial institutions, pursuant to which the institution will initially finance the purchase of the collateral that will be transferred to the CDO. Deerfield Capital will select the collateral. If the CDO transaction is not consummated, the institution would liquidate the warehoused collateral and we would have to pay any amount by which the original purchase price of the collateral exceeds its sale price, subject to negotiated caps, if any, on our exposure. In addition, regardless of whether the CDO transaction is consummated, if any of the warehoused collateral is sold before the consummation, we may have to 31 bear any resulting loss on the sale. The amount at risk in connection with the warehouse agreements supporting our investments in CDOs, generally is the amount that we have agreed to invest in the equity securities of the CDO. Although we would expect to complete the CDO transaction within about six to nine months after the warehouse agreement is signed, we cannot assure you that we would in fact be able to complete any such transaction, or complete it within the expected time period. We will lose money on our repurchase transactions if the counterparty to the transaction defaults on its obligation to resell the underlying security back to us at the end of the transaction term, or if the value of the underlying security has declined as of the end of that term or if we default on our obligations under the repurchase agreement. When we engage in a repurchase transaction, we generally sell securities to the transaction counterparty and receive cash from the counterparty. The counterparty is obligated to resell the securities back to us at the end of the term of the transaction, which is typically 30-90 days. Because the cash we receive from the counterparty when we initially sell the securities to the counterparty is less than the value of those securities (typically about 97% of that value), if the counterparty defaulted on its obligation to resell the securities back to us we would incur a loss on the transaction equal to about 3% of the value of the securities (assuming there was no change in the value of the securities). We would also lose money on a repurchase transaction if the value of the underlying securities has declined as of the end of the transaction term, as we would have to repurchase the securities for their initial value but would receive securities worth less than that amount. Any losses we incur on our repurchase transactions could adversely affect our earnings, and thus our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. If we default on one of our obligations under a repurchase transaction, the counterparty can terminate the transaction and cease entering into any other repurchase transactions with us. In that case, we would likely need to establish a replacement repurchase facility with another repurchase dealer in order to continue to leverage our portfolio and carry out our investment strategy. There is no assurance we would be able to establish a suitable replacement facility. Investments in mezzanine loans involve greater risks of loss than senior loans secured by income producing properties. Investments in mezzanine loans take the form of subordinated loans secured by second mortgages on the underlying property or loans secured by a pledge of the ownership interests in the entity that directly or indirectly owns the property. These types of investments involve a higher degree of risk than a senior mortgage loan because the investment may become unsecured as a result of foreclosure by the senior lender. In the event of a bankruptcy of the entity providing the pledge of its ownership interests as security, we may not have full recourse to the assets of the property owning entity, or the assets of the entity may not be sufficient to satisfy our mezzanine loan. If a borrower defaults on our mezzanine loan or debt senior to our loan, or in the event of a borrower bankruptcy, our mezzanine loan will be satisfied only after the senior debt is paid in full. As a result, we may not recover some or all of our investment, which could result in losses. In addition, mezzanine loans may have higher loan to value ratios than conventional mortgage loans, resulting in less equity in the property and increasing the risk of loss of principal. Increases in interest rates could negatively affect the value of our investments, which could result in reduced earnings or losses and negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We invest indirectly in mortgage loans by purchasing MBS. Under a normal yield curve, an investment in MBS will decline in value if long-term interest rates increase. Despite Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae guarantees of certain of the MBS we own, those guarantees do not protect us from declines in market value caused by changes in interest rates. Declines in market value may ultimately reduce earnings or result in losses to us, which may negatively affect cash available for distribution to our stockholders. A significant risk associated with our investment in MBS is that both long-term and short-term interest rates will increase significantly. If long-term rates increased significantly, the market value of these MBS would decline and the duration and weighted average life of the investments would increase. We could realize a loss if the securities were sold. At the same time, an increase in short-term interest rates would increase the amount of interest owed on the repurchase agreements we may enter into in order to finance the purchase of MBS. Market values of our investments may decline without any general increase in interest rates for a number of reasons, such as increases in defaults, increases in voluntary prepayments for those investments that are subject to prepayment risk, and widening of credit spreads. We remain subject to losses on our mortgage portfolio despite our strategy of investing in highly-rated MBS. A significant portion of our assets are invested in MBS that are either agency-backed or are rated investment grade by at least one rating agency. While highly-rated MBS are generally subject to a lower risk of default than lower credit quality MBS and may benefit from third-party credit enhancements such as insurance or corporate guarantees, there is no assurance that such MBS will not be subject to credit losses. Furthermore, ratings are subject to change over time as a result of a number of factors, including greater than expected delinquencies, defaults or credit losses, or a deterioration in the financial strength of corporate guarantors, any of which may reduce the market value of such securities. Furthermore, ratings do not take into account the reasonableness of the issue price, interest rate risk, prepayment risk, extension risk or other risks associated with such MBS. As a result, while we attempt to mitigate 32 our exposure to credit risk in our mortgage portfolio on a relative basis by focusing on highly-rated MBS, we cannot completely eliminate credit risk and remain subject to other risks in our investment portfolio that could cause us to suffer losses, which may harm the market price of our common stock. Some of our portfolio investments are recorded at values based on estimates of fair value made by management and, as a result, there is uncertainty as to the value of these investments. Some of our portfolio investments are in the form of loans and securities that are not publicly traded. The fair value of securities and other investments that are not publicly traded is not readily determinable. Depending on the accounting classification, these investments can be carried at fair value, lower of cost or market, or amortized cost with a loan loss reserve; each of these carrying values is determined based on an estimated of fair value. Management estimates fair value of these investments quarterly using policies approved by our board of directors. Because such valuations are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these securities existed. The value of our common stock could be adversely affected if our carrying values based on determinations of fair value of these investments is materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon their disposal. The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business. We have made investments, and expect to make additional investments, in securities that are not publicly traded. A portion of these securities may be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or will otherwise be less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded our investments. In addition, we may face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a business entity to the extent that we, Deerfield Capital or Triarc has or could be attributed with material non-public information regarding such business entity. Negative covenants contained in our repurchase agreements increase the possibility that we will be unable to maintain adequate capital and funding and may reduce cash available for distribution. We obtain a significant portion of our funding through the use of repurchase facilities. Certain of our repurchase agreements include negative covenants that if breached, may cause transactions to be terminated early. Except as noted below, the agreements for our repurchase facilities do not include substantive provisions other than those contained in the standard master repurchase agreement as published by the Bond Market Association. The agreement for one repurchase facility includes provisions that (a) limit our ability to resell or transfer bearer debt securities issued by a non-US entity and securities that have not been registered under the Securities Act and (b) establish an event of default upon our insolvency or our default under any other agreement with the counterparty. Another repurchase facility includes provisions that establish termination events if (a) we incur a net asset value decline of 15% on a monthly basis, 25% on a quarterly basis and 35% on an annual basis, except that net asset value reductions resulting from distributions are excluded in measuring such declines, (b) we fail to maintain a minimum net asset value of $364 million, (c) Deerfield Capital ceases to be our manager, (d) we fail to qualify as a REIT and (e) we fail to deliver certain documents, including monthly net asset value, prospectus, performance or other reports delivered to our stockholders and an annual representation of our president or chief financial officer. An event of default or termination event under the standard master repurchase agreement or the additional provisions explained above would give our counterparty the option to terminate all repurchase transactions existing with us and make any amount due by us to the counterparty payable immediately. If we are required to terminate outstanding repurchase transactions and are unable to negotiate more favorable funding terms, cash will be negatively impacted. This may reduce the amount of capital available for investing and/or may negatively impact our ability to distribute dividends. In addition, we may have to sell assets at a time when we might not otherwise choose to do so. We may not be able to acquire eligible securities for a CDO issuance, or may not be able to issue CDO securities on attractive terms, which may require us to seek more costly financing for our investments or to liquidate assets. We intend to continue to acquire certain debt instruments and finance them on a non-recourse long-term basis, such as through the issuance of CDOs. During the period that we are acquiring these assets, we intend to finance our purchases through relatively short-term credit facilities. We use short-term warehouse lines of credit to finance the acquisition of instruments until a sufficient quantity is accumulated, at which time we may refinance these lines through a securitization, such as a CDO issuance, or other long-term financing. As a result, we are subject to the risk that we will not be able to acquire, during the period that our warehouse facility is available, a sufficient amount of eligible assets to maximize the efficiency of a CDO issuance. In addition, conditions in the capital markets may make the issuance of CDOs less attractive to us when we do have a sufficient pool of collateral. If we are unable to issue a CDO to finance these assets, we may be required to seek other forms of potentially less attractive financing or otherwise to liquidate the assets. 33 A prolonged economic slowdown, a recession or declining real estate values could impair our investments and harm our operating results. Many of our investments may be susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions, which could lead to financial losses in our investments and a decrease in revenues, net income and assets. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. These events could prevent us from increasing investments and have an adverse effect on our operating results. We may be exposed to environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. In the course of our business, we may take title to real estate, and, if we do take title, we could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. In such a circumstance, we may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation, and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our hedging transactions may not completely insulate us from interest rate risk. Subject to maintaining our qualification as a REIT, we typically engage in certain hedging transactions to limit our exposure to changes in interest rates and therefore may expose ourselves to risks associated with such transactions. We utilize instruments such as forward contracts and interest rate swaps, caps, collars and floors to seek to hedge against mismatches between the cash flows on our assets and the interest payments on our liabilities or fluctuations in the relative values of our portfolio positions, in each case resulting from changes in market interest rates. Hedging against a decline in the values of our portfolio positions does not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the values of such positions or prevent losses if the values of such positions decline. Such hedging transactions may also limit the opportunity for gain if the values of the portfolio positions should increase. Moreover, it may not be possible to hedge against an interest rate fluctuation that is so generally anticipated that we are not able to enter into a hedging transaction at an acceptable price. The success of our hedging transactions will depend on Deerfield Capital’s ability to correctly anticipate movements of interest rates. Therefore, while we may enter into such transactions to seek to reduce interest rate risks, unanticipated changes in interest rates may result in poorer overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions being hedged may vary. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not seek to establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the portfolio holdings being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss. Hedging instruments often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities and involve risks and costs. The cost of using hedging instruments increases as the period covered by the instrument increases and during periods of rising and volatile interest rates. We may increase our hedging activity and thus increase our hedging costs during periods when interest rates are volatile or rising and hedging costs have increased. In addition, hedging instruments involve risk since they often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities. Consequently, there are no requirements with respect to record keeping, financial responsibility or segregation of customer funds and positions. Furthermore, the enforceability of agreements underlying derivative transactions may depend on compliance with applicable statutory and commodity and other regulatory requirements and, depending on the identity of the counterparty, applicable international requirements. The business failure of a hedging counterparty with whom we enter into a hedging transaction will most likely result in a default. Default by a party with whom we enter into a hedging transaction may result in the loss of unrealized profits and force us to cover our resale commitments, if any, at the then current market price. Although generally we will seek to reserve the right to terminate our hedging positions, it may not always be possible to dispose of or close out a hedging position without the consent of the hedging counterparty, and we may not be able to enter into an offsetting contract in order to cover our risk. We cannot assure you that a liquid secondary market will exist for hedging instruments purchased or sold, and we may be required to maintain a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in losses. Prepayment rates could negatively affect the value of our MBS, which could result in reduced earnings or losses and negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. In the case of residential mortgage loans, there are seldom any restrictions on borrowers’ abilities to prepay their loans. Homeowners tend to prepay mortgage loans faster when interest rates decline. Consequently, owners of the loans have to reinvest the 34 money received from the prepayments at the lower prevailing interest rates. Conversely, homeowners tend not to prepay mortgage loans when interest rates increase. Consequently, owners of the loans are unable to reinvest money that would have otherwise been received from prepayments at the higher prevailing interest rates. This volatility in prepayment rates may affect our ability to maintain targeted amounts of leverage on our mortgage-backed securities portfolio and may result in reduced earnings or losses for us and negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Despite Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae guarantees of principal and interest related to certain of the MBS we own, those guarantees do not protect investors against prepayment risks. We may enter into derivative contracts that could expose us to unexpected economic losses in the future. Subject to maintaining our qualification as a REIT, part of our investment strategy involves entering into derivative contracts that could require us to fund cash payments in the future under certain circumstances, e.g., the early termination of the derivative agreement caused by an event of default or other early termination event, or the decision by a counterparty to request margin securities it is contractually owed under the terms of the derivative contract. The amount due would be equal to the unrealized loss of the open swap positions with the respective counterparty and could also include other fees and charges. These economic losses will be reflected in our financial results of operations, and our ability to fund these obligations will depend on the liquidity of our assets and access to capital at the time, and the need to fund these obligations could adversely impact our financial condition. Our due diligence may not reveal all of an entity’s liabilities and may not reveal other weaknesses in its business. Before investing in a company, we assess the strength and skills of its management and other factors that we believe are material to the performance of the investment. In making the assessment and otherwise conducting customary due diligence, we rely on the resources available to us and, in some cases, an investigation by third parties. This process is particularly important and subjective with respect to newly organized entities because there may be little or no information publicly available about the entities. There can be no assurance that our due diligence processes will uncover all relevant facts or that any investment will be successful. Tax Risks Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy various tests regarding the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. In order to meet these tests, we may be required to forgo investments we might otherwise make. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our investment performance. Certain financing activities may subject us to U.S. federal income tax. We have not and currently do not intend to enter into any transactions that could result in us or a portion of our assets being treated as a taxable mortgage pool for federal income tax purposes. However, it is possible that in the future we may enter into transactions that will have that effect. If we enter into such a transaction at the REIT level, although the law on the matter is unclear, we might be taxable at the highest corporate income tax rate on a portion of the income arising from a taxable mortgage pool that is allocable to the percentage of our stock held by disqualified organizations, which are generally certain cooperatives, governmental entities and tax-exempt organizations that are exempt from unrelated business taxable income. Disqualified organizations are permitted to own our stock. Because this tax would be imposed on us, all of our investors, including investors that are not disqualified organizations, would bear a portion of the tax cost associated with the classification of us or a portion of our assets as a taxable mortgage pool. In addition, if we realize excess inclusion income and allocate it to stockholders, this income cannot be offset by losses of our stockholders. If the stockholder is a tax-exempt entity and not a disqualified organization, then this income would be fully taxable as unrelated business taxable income under Section 512 of the Internal Revenue Code. If the stockholder is a foreign person, it would be subject to U.S. federal income tax withholding on this income without reduction or exemption pursuant to any otherwise applicable income tax treaty. Failure to qualify as a REIT would subject us to federal income tax, which would reduce the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We operate in a manner that is intended to cause us to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. However, the federal income tax laws governing REITs are extremely complex, and interpretations of the federal income tax laws governing qualification as a REIT are limited. Qualifying as a REIT requires us to meet various tests regarding the nature of our assets and our income, the ownership of our outstanding stock, and the amount of our distributions on an ongoing basis. While we operate in such a way so as to qualify as a REIT, given the highly complex nature of the rules governing REITs, the ongoing importance of factual determinations, and the possibility of future changes in our circumstances, no assurance can be given that we will so qualify for any particular year. 35 If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any calendar year and we do not qualify for certain statutory relief provisions, we would be required to pay federal income tax on our taxable income. We might need to borrow money or sell assets in order to pay that tax. Our payment of income tax would decrease the amount of our income available for distribution to our stockholders. Furthermore, if we fail to maintain our qualification as a REIT and we do not qualify for certain statutory relief provisions, we no longer would be required to distribute substantially all of our REIT taxable income to our stockholders. Unless our failure to qualify as a REIT were excused under federal tax laws, we could not re-elect REIT status until the fifth calendar year following the year in which we failed to qualify. Failure to make required distributions would subject us to tax, which would reduce the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. In order to qualify as a REIT, we must distribute to our stockholders, each calendar year, at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain. To the extent that we satisfy the 90% distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed income. In addition, we will incur a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which our distributions in any calendar year are less than the sum of: • 85% of our ordinary income for that year; • 95% of our capital gain net income for that year; and • 100% our undistributed taxable income from prior years. We intend to continue to distribute our net taxable income to our stockholders in a manner intended to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement and to avoid both corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax. However, there is no requirement that domestic TRSs distribute their after-tax net income to their parent REIT or their stockholders and Deerfield Triarc TRS Holdings, Inc., one of our TRSs, may determine not to make any distributions to us. Our taxable income may substantially exceed our net income as determined based on generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, because, for example, realized capital losses will be deducted in determining our GAAP net income, but may not be deductible in computing our taxable income. In addition, we may invest in assets that generate taxable income in excess of economic income or in advance of the corresponding cash flow from the assets, referred to as phantom income. Although some types of phantom income are excluded to the extent they exceed 5% of our REIT taxable income in determining the 90% distribution requirement, we will incur corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax with respect to any phantom income items if we do not distribute those items on an annual basis. As a result of the foregoing, we may generate less cash flow than taxable income in a particular year. In that event, we may be required to use cash reserves, incur debt, or liquidate non-cash assets at rates or times that we regard as unfavorable in order to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax in that year. Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates on dividend income from regular corporations. Legislation enacted in 2003 generally reduces the maximum tax rate for dividends payable to domestic stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates from 38.6% to 15% (through 2008). Dividends payable by REITs, however, are generally not eligible for the reduced rates. Although this legislation does not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends paid by REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the stock of REITs, including our common stock. Ownership limitation may restrict change of control or business combination opportunities in which our stockholders might receive a premium for their shares. In order for us to qualify as a REIT for each taxable year after our 2004 taxable year, no more than 50% in value of our outstanding capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals during the last half of any calendar year. Individuals for this purpose include natural persons, private foundations, some employee benefit plans and trusts, and some charitable trusts. In order to preserve our REIT qualification, our charter and certain board resolutions generally prohibit any person (including William & Claire Dart Foundation) from directly or indirectly owning more than 7.7% in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of any class or series of the outstanding shares of our capital stock, other than Ross Financial Corporation, which is not permitted to own more than 18.5% in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of our common stock. This ownership limitation could have the effect of discouraging a takeover or other transaction in which holders of our common stock might receive a premium for their shares over the then prevailing market price or which holders might believe to be otherwise in their best interests. 36 Our ownership of and relationship with our TRSs is limited and a failure to comply with the limits would jeopardize our REIT status and may result in the application of a 100% excise tax. A REIT may own up to 100% of the stock of one or more TRSs. A TRS may earn income that would not be qualifying income if earned directly by the parent REIT. Both the subsidiary and the REIT must jointly elect to treat the subsidiary as a TRS. A corporation of which a TRS directly or indirectly owns more than 35% of the voting power or value of the stock will automatically be treated as a TRS. Overall, no more than 20% of the value of a REIT’s assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more TRSs. A TRS will pay federal, state and local income tax at regular corporate rates on any income that it earns. In addition, the TRS rules limit the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a TRS to its parent REIT to assure that the TRS is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation. The rules also impose a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis. Deerfield Triarc TRS Holdings, Inc., as a domestic TRS, will pay federal, state and local income tax on its taxable income, and its after-tax net income is available for distribution to us but is not required to be distributed to us. The aggregate value of the TRS stock and securities owned by us will be less than 20% of the value of our total assets (including the TRS stock and securities). Furthermore, we monitor the value of our investments in TRSs for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the rule that no more than 20% of the value of our assets may consist of TRS stock and securities (which is applied at the end of each calendar quarter). In addition, we scrutinize all of our transactions with TRSs for the purpose of ensuring that they are entered into on arm’s-length terms in order to avoid incurring the 100% excise tax described above. There can be no complete assurance, however, that we will be able to comply with the 20% limitation discussed above or to avoid application of the 100% excise tax discussed above. If our CDO issuers that are TRSs are subject to federal income tax at the entity level, it would greatly reduce the amounts those entities would have available to distribute to us and that we would have available to pay their creditors. Market Square, which is organized as a Cayman Islands company and is the issuer in a CDO transaction, has elected to be a TRS. We may elect in the future to treat other CDO issuers as TRSs. There is a specific exemption from federal income tax for non-U.S. corporations that restrict their activities in the United States to trading stock and securities (or any activity closely related thereto) for their own account whether such trading (or such other activity) is conducted by the corporation or its employees through a resident broker, commission agent, custodian or other agent. We intend that Market Square and any other CDO issuers that are TRSs will rely on that exemption or otherwise operate in a manner so that they will not be subject to federal income tax on their net income at the entity level. If the IRS were to succeed in challenging that tax treatment, it could greatly reduce the amount that those CDO issuers would have available to distribute to us and to pay to their creditors. We may lose our REIT status if the IRS successfully challenges our characterization of our income from our CDO issuers that are TRSs. We intend to treat certain income inclusions received with respect to our equity investments in Market Square and any other CDO issuers that are TRSs as qualifying income for purposes of the 95% gross income test but not the 75% gross income test. Because there is no clear precedent with respect to the qualification of such income for purposes of the REIT gross income tests, no assurance can be given that the IRS will not assert a contrary position. In the event that such income was determined not to qualify for the 95% gross income test, we could be subject to a penalty tax with respect to such income to the extent it and our other nonqualifying income exceeds 5% of our gross income or we could fail to qualify as a REIT. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively. The REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code substantially limit our ability to hedge MBS and related borrowings. Under these provisions, our annual gross income from qualifying and non-qualifying hedges, together with any other income not generated from qualifying real estate assets, cannot exceed 25% of our gross income. In addition, our aggregate gross income from non-qualifying hedges, fees, and certain other non-qualifying sources cannot exceed 5% of our annual gross income. As a result, we might have to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through Deerfield Triarc TRS Holdings, Inc. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear. The tax on prohibited transactions will limit our ability to engage in transactions, including certain methods of securitizing mortgage loans that would be treated as sales for federal income tax purposes. A REIT’s net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, but including mortgage loans, held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. We might be subject to this tax if we were able to sell or securitize loans in a manner that was treated as a sale of the loans for federal income tax purposes. Therefore, in order to avoid the prohibited transactions tax, we may choose not to engage in certain sales of loans and may limit the structures we utilize for our securitization transactions even though such sales or structures might otherwise be beneficial to us. 37 It may be possible to reduce the impact of the prohibited transaction tax and the holding of assets not qualifying as real estate assets for purposes of the REIT asset tests by conducting certain activities, holding non-qualifying REIT assets or engaging in CDO transactions through our TRSs, subject to certain limitations as described below. To the extent that we engage in such activities through TRSs, the income associated with such activities may be subject to full corporate income tax. We may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could reduce the market price of our common stock. At any time, the federal income tax laws or regulations governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws or regulations may be amended. We cannot predict when or if any new federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, or any amendment to any existing federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, will be adopted, promulgated or become effective and any such law, regulation or interpretation may take effect retroactively. We and our stockholders could be adversely affected by any such change in, or any new, federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation. If we make distributions in excess of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, those distributions will be treated as a return of capital, which will reduce the adjusted basis of your stock, and to the extent such distributions exceed your adjusted basis, you may recognize a capital gain. Unless you are a tax-exempt entity, distributions that we make to you generally will be subject to tax as ordinary income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits as determined for federal income tax purposes. If the amount we distribute to you exceeds your allocable share of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, the excess will be treated as a return of capital to the extent of your adjusted basis in your stock, which will reduce your basis in your stock but will not be subject to tax. To the extent the amount we distribute to you exceeds both your allocable share of our current and accumulated earnings and profits and your adjusted basis, this excess amount will be treated as a gain from the sale or exchange of a capital asset. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 