ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this annual report, the following factors should be considered carefully in evaluating the Company’s business and prospects. THE FOLLOWING MATTERS, AMONG OTHERS, MAY HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON THE BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OR PROSPECTS, FINANCIAL OR OTHERWISE, OF THE COMPANY. REFERENCE TO THIS CAUTIONARY STATEMENT IN THE CONTEXT OF A FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENT OR STATEMENTS SHALL BE DEEMED TO BE A STATEMENT THAT ANY ONE OR MORE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS MAY CAUSE ACTUAL RESULTS TO DIFFER MATERIALLY FROM THOSE IN SUCH FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENT OR STATEMENTS. We are subject to, among others, the following risks: 18 Risks Related to Our Business Our business depends to a large extent on mobile telecommunications service providers in China and any deterioration of such relationships may result in severe disruptions to our business. We have derived, and believe we will continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of large customers, such as China Mobile, China Telecom and China Unicom which are our major customers who have been customers for many years. We work with and through business partners to operate under exclusive software licensing and revenue sharing arrangements with China Mobile and China Unicom. Currently, China Mobile, China Telecom and China Unicom are the only mobile telecommunications service providers in China that have platforms for Mobile Value Added Services. Our agreements with them are generally for a period of less than one year and generally do not have automatic renewal provisions. Each of these carriers retain the ability to renegotiate the terms of the agreement with the Company, either pursuant t o the ability to terminate the existing agreement in favor of a new agreement or by means of the amendment provisions of such agreements. Such opportunities for expansion of services provided to such customers are not specifically contemplated by the terms of the current software license agreements. If neither of them is willing to continue to cooperate and negotiate with us upon expiration, we may not be able to conduct our existing Mobile Value Added Services business. In 2010, approximately 63% of our revenues were derived from top five end customers. The loss, cancellation, deferral or renegotiation of any large agreements with telecommunications carriers or other major customers could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. In addition, if either of these major carriers decides to change its content or transmission fees or its share of revenues, or does not comply with the terms and conditions of our agreements with them, our revenues and profitability could also be materially adversely affected. Our financial condition and results of operations may be materially affected by the changes in policies or guidelines of the telecommunications carriers. The telecommunications carriers in China may, from time to time, issue certain operating policies or guidelines, requesting or stating its preference for certain actions to be taken by all Mobile Value-Added Services providers using their platforms. Due to our reliance on the munications carriers, a significant change in their policies or guidelines may have a material adverse effect on us. Such change in policies or guidelines may result in lower revenue or additional operating costs for us, and as such, we cannot assure you that our financial condition and results of operations will not be materially adversely affected by any such policy or guideline change. Our customers are concentrated in a limited number of industries and a slowdown in these industries could have an adverse effect on our business. Our customers are concentrated primarily in the telecommunications, media and technology industries, and to a lesser extent, the automobile, financial services, retail and utility industries, where the current trend is to outsource certain customer relationship management and value-added services. Our ability to generate revenue depends on continuous demand for our services in these industries. An economic downturn, or a slowdown or reversal of the tendency in any of these industries to rely on outsourcing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. The long and variable sales cycles for our software services can cause our revenues and operating results to vary significantly from period to period. Our revenues and operating results will vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. A customer’s decision to purchase our software services involves a significant commitment of its resources and extended evaluation. As a result, our sales cycles tend to be lengthy. We spend considerable time and expense educating and providing information to prospective customers about features and applications of our software services. A large part of the contract amount of our projects sometimes relates to hardware procurement. Since we recognize most of the revenues relating to hardware at the time of hardware delivery, the timing of hardware delivery can cause our quarterly gross revenues to fluctuate significantly. The combination of these factors can cause our revenue s and results of operations to vary significantly and unexpectedly from quarter to quarter. 19 The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and fragmented and we may not be able to maintain market share. We operate in highly competitive markets and expect competition to persist and intensify in the future. Our competitors are mainly leaders in the software and data mining services markets, such as AsiaInfo-Linkage Inc., Lian Chuang, Neusoft and Digital China and NCR Corp. Our competitors also include small firms offering specific applications, divisions of large entities and other large independent firms. We face the risk that new competitors with greater resources than us will enter our markets. Increasing competition among telecommunication companies in Greater China has led to a reduction in telecommunication services fees that can be charged by such companies. If a reduction in telecommunication services fees negatively impacts revenue generated by our customers, they may require us to reduce the price of our services, or seek competitors that charge less, which could reduce our market share. If we must significantly reduce the price of our services, the decrease in revenue could adversely affect our profitability. Key employees are essential to growing our business and could choose to work elsewhere. Rick Luk, Chief Executive Officer, George Du, President, General Manager and Chairman, and Yong Xu, Chief Financial Officer, are essential to our ability to continue to grow our business. Messrs. Luk, Du and Xu have established relationships within the industries in which we operate. If either of them were to leave the Company, our growth strategy might be hindered, which could limit our ability to increase revenue. Although individual members of our management team have experience as officers of publicly-traded companies, much of that experience came prior to the adoption of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and we may be required to implement compliance infrastructure without adequate resources. It may be time consuming, difficult and costly for us to develop and implement the internal controls and reporting procedures required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We may need to hire additional financial reporting, internal controls and other finance staff in order to develop and implement appropriate internal controls and reporting procedures. Unlike other, larger companies, our ability to dedicate resources for compliance purposes is limited. If we are unable to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act’s internal controls requirements, we may not be able to obtain the independent auditor certifications that Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires publicly-traded companies to obtain. Failure to provide significant management attention to international operations may negatively affect our business. Our operations in China and in other Asian countries are subject to risks, including the following, which, if not planned and managed properly, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results: ¨ legal uncertainties or unanticipated changes regarding regulatory requirements, political instability, liability, export and import restrictions, tariffs and other trade barriers; ¨ longer customer payment cycles and greater difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; ¨ uncertainties of laws and enforcement relating to the protection of intellectual property; and ¨ potentially uncertain or adverse tax consequences. 20 If we need additional funding, it may not be available on satisfactory terms or at all. We believe that our existing cash will be sufficient to support our current operating plan for at least the next 18 months. However, our capital requirements may be accelerated as a result of many factors, including timing of development activities, underestimates of budget items, unanticipated expenses or capital expenditures, limitation of development of new potential products, future product opportunities with collaborators, future licensing opportunities and future business combinations. Consequently, we may need to seek additional debt or equity financing, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all, and which may be dilutive to you. We may seek to raise additional capital through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or additional corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements. To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience dilution. To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing debt securities, we would incur substantial interest obligations, may be required to pledge assets as security for the debt and may be constrained by restrictive financial and/or operational covenants. Debt financing would also be superior to your interest in bankruptcy or liquidation. To the extent we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish some rights to our technologies or product candidates, or grant licenses on unfavorable terms. We must respond quickly and effectively to new technological developments in order to remain competitive. Our business is highly dependent on our computer and telecommunications equipment and software systems. Our failure to maintain our technological capabilities or to respond effectively to technological changes could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our future success also depends on our ability to enhance existing software and systems and to respond to changing technological developments. If we are unable to successfully develop and bring to market new software and systems in a timely manner, our competitors’ technologies or services may render our products or services noncompetitive or obsolete. If we fail to protect adequately or enforce our intellectual property rights, or to secure rights to patents of others, the value of our intellectual property rights could diminish. Our success, competitive position and future revenues will depend in part on our ability, and the ability of our licensors, to obtain and maintain patent protection for our products, methods, processes and other technologies, to preserve our trade secrets, to prevent third parties from infringing on our proprietary rights and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. To date, we have 30 patents issued by the National Intellectual Property Administration of the PRC. We anticipate filing additional patent applications both in the PRC and in other countries, as appropriate. However, we cannot predict the degree and range of protection patents will afford us against competitors, including whether third parties will find ways to invalidate or otherwise circumvent our patents, if and when patents will issue, whether or not others will obtain patents claiming aspects similar to our patent applications, or if we will need to initiate litigation or administrative proceedings, which may be costly whether we win or lose. Our success also depends on the skills, knowledge and experience of our scientific and technical personnel, consultants, advisors, licensors and contractors. To help protect our proprietary know-how and inventions for which patents may be unobtainable or difficult to obtain, we rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements. To this end, we require all of our employees, consultants, advisors and contractors to enter into confidentiality and, where applicable, grant-back agreements. These agreements may not provide adequate protection in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or the lawful development by others of such information. If any of our intellectual property is disclosed, our value would be significantly impaired, and our business and competitive position would suffer. If we infringe the rights of third parties, we could be prevented from selling products, forced to pay damages and compelled to defend against litigation. If our products, methods, processes and other technologies infringe proprietary rights of other parties, we could incur substantial costs, and may have to obtain licenses (which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all), redesign our products or processes, stop using the subject matter claimed in the asserted patents, pay damages, or defend litigation or administrative proceedings, which may be costly whether it wins or loses. All these could result in a substantial diversion of valuable management resources. 21 We believe we have taken reasonable steps, including comprehensive internal and external prior patent searches, to ensure we have freedom to operate and that our development and commercialization efforts can be carried out as planned without infringing others’ proprietary rights. However, we cannot guarantee that no third party patent has been filed or will be filed that may contain subject matter of relevance to our development, causing a third party patent holder to claim infringement. Resolving such issues has traditionally resulted, and could in our case result, in lengthy and costly legal proceedings, the outcome of which cannot be predicted accurately. Our holding company structure may limit the payment of dividends. We have no direct business operations, other than our ownership of our subsidiaries. While we have no current intention of paying dividends, should we decide in the future to do so, as a holding company, our ability to pay dividends and meet other obligations depends upon the receipt of dividends or other payments from our operating subsidiaries and other holdings and investments. In addition, our operating subsidiaries, from time to time, may be subject to restrictions on their ability to make distributions to us, including as a result of restrictive covenants in loan agreements, restrictions on the conversion of local currency into U.S. dollars or other hard currency and other regulatory restrictions as discussed below. If future dividends are paid in RMB, fluctuations in the exchange rate for the conversion of RMB into U.S. dol lars may reduce the amount received by U.S. stockholders upon conversion of the dividend payment into U.S. dollars. Chinese regulations currently permit the payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. Our subsidiaries in China are also required to set aside a portion of their after tax profits according to Chinese accounting standards and regulations to fund certain reserve funds. Currently, our subsidiaries in China are the only sources of revenues or investment holdings for the payment of dividends. If they do not accumulate sufficient profits under Chinese accounting standards and regulations to first fund certain reserve funds as required by Chinese accounting standards, we will be unable to pay any dividends. We have never paid cash dividends and are not likely to do so in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. We do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future but will review this policy as circumstances dictate. Increases in wages for sales and marketing, research and development, and management personnel will increase our net cash outflow, and our gross margin and profit margin may decline. In recent years, with the rapidly rising property prices and steady increase in CPI, China’s telecommunications and software industry are constantly under pressure to increase wages to retain and attract high quality staff. In 2011, wages may continue to increase at faster rates. Wage increases will increase our cost of our products and services of the same quality and increase our cost of operations. As a result, our gross margin and profit margin may decline. In the long term, unless offset by increases in efficiency and productivity of our work force, wage increases may also result in increased prices for our solutions and services, making us potentially less competitive. Increases in wages, including an increase in the cash component of our compensation expenses, will increase our net cash outflow and our gross margin and profit margin may decline. 22 We are exposed to certain tax risks in China under the new Enterprise Income Tax Law of the PRC, or the EIT Law. The EIT Law, which took effect on January 1, 2008, has applied a uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate to all “resident enterprises” in China, including foreign invested enterprises, or FIEs. However, certain of our subsidiaries in China are likely to continue to enjoy preferential tax rate as they have been qualified as a Key Software Enterprise or a High and New Technology Enterprise, or HNTE, under the EIT Law. The qualification of our subsidiaries as a Key Software Enterprise or HNTE and the preferential tax rate enjoyed or to be enjoyed by them in relation with such qualification may be challenged, revoked or rejected by tax authority in the future, which would have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition and results of operations. We may undertake acquisitions, investments or other strategic alliances, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. In addition, such undertakings may not be successful. Our strategy includes plans to grow both organically and through acquisitions. We may not be able, however, to identify suitable future acquisition candidates or alliance partners. Even if we identify suitable candidates or partners, we may be unable to complete an acquisition or alliance on terms commercially acceptable to us. If we fail to identify appropriate candidates or partners, or complete desired acquisitions, we may not be able to implement our strategies effectively or efficiently. In addition, our ability to successfully integrate acquired companies and their operations may be adversely affected by a number of factors. These factors include: • diversion of management’s attention; • difficulties in retaining customers of the acquired companies; • difficulties in retaining personnel of the acquired companies; • entry into unfamiliar markets; • unanticipated problems or legal liabilities; and • tax and accounting issues. If we fail to integrate acquired companies efficiently, our earnings, revenues growth and business could be negatively affected. Furthermore, the acquired companies may not perform to our expectations for various reasons, including the loss of key customers and personnel. If we are not able to realize the benefits envisioned for such acquisitions or other strategic alliances, our overall profitability and growth plans may be adversely affected. Asset impairment reviews may result in future write-downs. Our accounting policies require us, among other things, to conduct annual reviews of goodwill, and to test intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable. In connection with our business acquisitions as well as intangible asset acquisition from Newway, we make assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and other factors to determine the fair value of goodwill and intangible assets. In assessing the related useful lives of those assets, we have to make assumptions regarding their fair value, our recoverability of those assets and our ability to successfully develop and ultimately commercialize acquired technology. If those assumptions change in the future when we conduct our periodic reviews in accordance with applicable accounting stand ards, we may be required to record impairment charges. It is possible that future reviews will result in further write-downs of goodwill and other intangible assets. 23 Risks Associated With Doing Business in Greater China There are substantial risks associated with doing business in greater China, as set forth in the following risk factors: Our operations and assets in Greater China are subject to significant political and economic uncertainties. Changes in PRC laws and regulations, or their interpretation, or the imposition of confiscatory taxation, restrictions on currency conversion, imports and sources of supply, devaluations of currency or the nationalization or other expropriation of private enterprises could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Under our current leadership, the Chinese government has been pursuing economic reform policies that encourage private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. There is no assurance, however, that the Chinese government will continue to pursue these policies, or that it will not significantly alter these policies from time to time without notice. Currency fluctuations and restrictions on currency exchange may adversely affect our business, including limiting our ability to convert Chinese RMB into foreign currencies and, if Chinese RMB were to decline in value, reducing our revenue in U.S. dollar terms. Our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar and our operations in China use their local currency as their functional currencies. Substantially all of our revenue and expenses are in Chinese RMB. We are subject to the effects of exchange rate fluctuations with respect to any of these currencies. For example, the value of the RMB depends to a large extent on Chinese government policies and China’s domestic and international economic and political developments, as well as supply and demand in the local market. Since 1994, the official exchange rate for the conversion of RMB to the U.S. dollar had generally been stable and the RMB had appreciated slightly against the U.S. dollar. However, on July 21, 2005, the Chinese government changed its policy of pegging the value of Chinese RMB to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, C hinese RMB may fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. As a result of this policy change, Chinese RMB appreciated approximately 2.5% against the U.S. dollar in 2005 and has continued to appreciate measurably since that time. It is possible that the Chinese government could adopt a more flexible currency policy, which could result in more significant fluctuation of Chinese RMB against the U.S. dollar. We can offer no assurance that Chinese RMB will be stable against the U.S. dollar or any other foreign currency. The income statements of our international operations are translated into U.S. dollars at the average exchange rates in each applicable period. To the extent the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currencies denominated transactions results in reduced revenue, operating expenses and net income for our international operations. Similarly, to the extent the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions results in increased revenue, operating expenses and net income for our international operations. We are also exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as we convert the financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars in consolidation. If there is a change in foreign currency exchange rates, the conversion of the foreign subsidiaries’ financial statements into U.S. dollars will lead to a translation gain or loss which is recorded as a component of other comprehensive income. In addition, we have certain assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the relevant entity’s functional currency. Changes in the functional currency value of these assets and liabilities create fluctuations that will lead to a transaction gain or loss. We have not entered into agreements or purchased instruments to hedge our exchange rate risks, although we may do so in the future. The availability and effectiveness of any hedging transaction may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exchange rate risks. Although Chinese governmental policies were introduced in 1996 to allow the convertibility of Chinese RMB into foreign currency for current account items, conversion of Chinese RMB into foreign exchange for capital items, such as foreign direct investment, loans or securities, requires the approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, which is under the authority of the People’s Bank of China. These approvals, however, do not guarantee the availability of foreign currency conversion. We cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain all required conversion approvals for our operations or that Chinese regulatory authority will not impose greater restrictions on the convertibility of Chinese RMB in the future. Because a significant amount of our future revenue may be in the form of Chinese RMB, our ina bility to obtain the requisite approvals or any future restrictions on currency exchanges could limit our ability to utilize revenue generated in Chinese RMB to fund our business activities outside of China, or to repay foreign currency obligations, including our debt obligations, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 24 We are required to obtain licenses to expand our business into other provinces of mainland China. Our activities must be reviewed and approved by various national and local agencies of the Chinese government before they will issue business licenses to us. There can be no assurance that the current Chinese government, or successors, will continue to approve and renew our licenses. If we are unable to obtain licenses or renewals, we will not be able to continue our business operations in mainland China, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Existing and proposed regulation in the areas of consumer privacy, data use and/or security could affect our financial condition. We and our customers are subject to regulations related to privacy and data use security in the PRC, and could be negatively impacted by these regulations. Our data mining services depend in large part on the use of consumer information obtained from former customers of Shenzhen Yulong Communications and various third-party sources. Regulation of privacy and data use and security in the PRC may increase the costs relating to our business. Any additional regulations in these areas may also increase our costs to comply with such regulations and could materially and adversely affect our profitability. Finally, failure to comply with the privacy and data use and security laws and regulations to which we are subject could result in fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operation s and overall business. We may have limited legal recourse under PRC law if disputes arise under our contracts with third parties. The Chinese government has enacted some laws and regulations dealing with matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. However, their experience in implementing, interpreting and enforcing these laws and regulations is limited, and our ability to enforce commercial claims or to resolve commercial disputes is unpredictable. If our new business ventures are unsuccessful, or other adverse circumstances arise from these transactions, we face the risk that the parties to these ventures may seek ways to terminate the transactions, or, may hinder or prevent us from accessing important information regarding the financial and business operations of these acquired companies. The resolution of these matters may be subject to the exercise of considerable discretion by agencies o f the Chinese government, and forces unrelated to the legal merits of a particular matter or dispute may influence their determination. Any rights we may have to specific performance, or to seek an injunction under PRC law, in either of these cases, are severely limited, and without a means of recourse by virtue of the Chinese legal system, we may be unable to prevent these situations from occurring. The occurrence of any such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We must comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act which could disadvantage us in the markets in which we operate. We are required to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits U.S. companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Foreign companies, including some of our competitors, are not subject to these prohibitions. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time-to-time in mainland China. If our competitors engage in these practices, they may receive preferential treatment from personnel of some companies, giving our competitors an advantage in securing business or from government officials who might give them priority in obtaining new licenses, which would put us at a disadvantage. Although we inform our personnel that such practices are illegal, we cannot assure you th at our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties. 25 PRC laws and regulations restrict foreign investment in China’s telecommunications service industry and we have entered into contractual agreements with Jingwei Communications to control and realize the benefits of the business. We are relying upon PRC laws and there is substantial uncertainty regarding the interpretation and application of current or future PRC laws and regulations. We are deemed to be foreign persons or foreign-funded enterprises under PRC laws, and cannot directly invest in companies operating in the telecommunications industry. Therefore, we operate our businesses in China through Jingwei Communications, an operating company that is owned by PRC citizens and not by us. We control Jingwei Communications through a series of contractual arrangements. Although we believe we are in compliance with current PRC regulations, we cannot be sure that the PRC government would view these contractual arrangements to be in compliance with PRC licensing, registration or other regulatory requirements, with existing policies or with requirements or policies that may be adopted in the future. In the opinion of Guang Dong Jindi Law Office, our PRC legal counsel, our current ownership structure and t he contractual arrangements comply with all existing applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations. Because this structure has not been challenged or examined by PRC authorities, uncertainties exist as to whether the PRC government may interpret or apply the laws governing these arrangements in a way that is contrary to the opinion of our PRC counsel. If we, our wholly-owned subsidiaries or Jingwei Communications, were found to be in violation of any existing PRC laws or regulations, the relevant regulatory authorities would have broad discretion to deal with such violation, including, but not limited to the following: ¨ levying fines; ¨ confiscating income; ¨ revoking licenses; ¨ shutting down servers or blocking websites; ¨ requiring a restructure of ownership or operations; and/or ¨ requiring the discontinuance of Wireless Value Added Services businesses. Any of these or similar actions could cause significant disruption to our business operations or render us unable to conduct our business operations and may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The contractual agreements between Jingwei Hengtong and Jingwei Communications may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership of these businesses and may be difficult to enforce. We depend on Jingwei Communications, an operating company in which we have no equity ownership interest, for substantially all of our operations, revenues and net income, and must rely on contractual agreements to control and operate these businesses. Although we have been advised by PRC legal counsel that our contractual arrangements with the operating company are valid, binding and enforceable under PRC laws and regulations, these contractual agreements may not be as effective in providing and maintaining control over the operating company and its business operations as direct ownership of these businesses. For example, we may not be able to take control of Jingwei Communications upon the occurrence of certain events, such as the imposition of statutory liens, judgments, court orders, death or incapacity. Furthermore, if the ope rating company and its shareholders fail to perform as required under those contractual agreements, we will have to rely on the PRC legal system to enforce those agreements, and due to the uncertainties that exist under PRC law about its structure, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in an enforcement action and any action could result in the disruption of our business, damage to our reputation, diversion of our resources and significant costs. In addition, the PRC government may propose new laws or amend current laws that may be detrimental to our current contractual agreements with the operating company, which may in turn have a material adverse effect on our business operations. Investors may not be able to enforce judgments entered by United States courts against certain of our officers and directors. We are incorporated in the State of Nevada. However, all of our directors, executive officers and principal stockholders live outside of the U.S., principally in China and Hong Kong. As a result, you may not be able to effect service of process upon those persons within the U.S., or enforce against those persons judgments obtained in United States courts, including judgments relating to the federal securities laws of the U.S. 26 Risks Related to the Common Stock We are controlled by a small number of existing shareholders, who may make decisions with which you may disagree Our directors, officers and principal shareholders currently beneficially own approximately 48.3% of our outstanding shares in the aggregate. The interests of these shareholders may differ from your interests. These shareholders, acting together, could exercise significant influence over our operations and business strategy and will have sufficient voting power to influence all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the ability to elect or remove directors to approve or reject mergers or other business combination transactions, the raising of future capital and the amendment of our articles of association, which govern the rights attached to our common stock. In addition, this concentration of ownership may delay, prevent or deter a change in control, or deprive you of a possible premium for your common stock as part of a sale of our company. Techniques employed by manipulative short sellers in Chinese stocks may drive down the market price of our common stock Short selling is the practice of selling securities that the seller does not own but rather has, supposedly, borrowed from a third party with the intention of buying identical securities back at a later date to return to the lender. The short seller hopes to profit from a decline in the value of the securities between the sale of the borrowed securities and the purchase of the replacement shares, as the short seller expects to pay less in that purchase than it received in the sale. As it is therefore in the short seller’s best interests for the price of the stock to decline, many short sellers (sometime known as “disclosed shorts”) publish, or arrange for the publication of, negative opinions regarding the relevant issuer and its business prospects in order to create negative market mom entum and generate profits for themselves after selling a stock short. While traditionally these disclosed shorts were limited in their ability to access mainstream business media or to otherwise create negative market rumors, the rise of the Internet and technological advancements regarding document creation, videotaping and publication by weblog (“blogging”) have allowed many disclosed shorts to publicly attack a company’s credibility, strategy and veracity by means of so-called research reports that mimic the type of investment analysis performed by large Wall Street firm and independent research analysts. These short attacks have, in the past, led to selling of shares in the market, on occasion in large scale and broad base. Issuers with business operations based in China and who have limited trading volumes and are susceptible to higher volatility levels than U.S. domestic large-cap stocks, can be particularly vulnerable to such short attacks. These short seller publications are not regulated by any governmental, self-regulatory organization or other official authority in the U.S., are not subject to the certification requirements imposed by the Securities and Exchange Commission in Regulation AC (Regulation Analyst Certification) and, accordingly, the opinions they express may be based on distortions of actual facts or, in some cases, fabrications of facts. In light of the limited risks involved in publishing such information, and the enormous profit that can be made from running just one successful short attack, unless the short sellers become subject to significant penalties, it is more likely than not that disclosed shorts will continue to issue such reports. While we intend to strongly defend our public filings against any such short seller attacks, oftentimes we are constrained, either by principles of freedom of speech, applicable state law (often called “Anti-SLAPP statutes”), or issues of commercial confidentiality, in the manner in which we can proceed against the relevant short seller. You should be aware that in light of the relative freedom to operate that such persons enjoy – oftentimes blogging from outside the U.S. with little or no assets or identity requirements – should we be targeted for such an attack, our stock will likely suffer from a temporary, or possibly long term, decline in market price should the rumors created not be dismissed by market participants. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 