RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below, in conjunction with the other information and financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this annual report, before making an investment decision. You should pay particular attention to the fact that we conduct our operations in Italy and are governed by a legal and regulatory environment that in some respects differs significantly from the environment that prevails in other countries with which you may be familiar. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be affected materially and adversely by any or all of these risks. In that event, the market price of our ADSs could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business We have generated limited revenues from commercial sales of our products to date and we do not know whether we will ever generate significant revenues or achieve profitability. We are focused on product development and have generated limited revenue from commercial sales of our products to date. We had total product sales of €3.113 million, €3.361 million and €4.075 million in 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively. We do not expect our total product sales to materially increase unless we are able to sell our product candidates. We expect to continue to incur significant expenses as we research, develop, test and seek regulatory approval for our product candidates. We incurred a net loss of €7.0 million, €12.3 million and €14.4 million in 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively. We cannot assure you that we will ever become profitable. If we fail to achieve profitability within the time frame expected by investors or securities analysts, the market price of our ADSs may decline. We currently do not have any regulatory approvals to sell defibrotide to treat or prevent VOD or defibrotide to treat multiple myeloma or any of our other product candidates and we cannot guarantee that we will ever be able to sell any of these products anywhere in the world. We must demonstrate that our product candidates satisfy rigorous standards of safety and effectiveness before the FDA, the European Commission and other regulatory authorities will approve the products for commercial marketing. We or others must conduct clinical trials of those products which must be approved by the FDA or other regulatory agencies. These trials are time consuming and expensive, and we cannot guarantee whether they will be successful. Currently, the only regulatory approvals we have relate to the use of defibrotide to prevent vascular disease with risk of thrombosis in Italy. We do not have approval to sell defibrotide to treat or prevent VOD, defibrotide to treat multiple myeloma or any of our other product candidates anywhere in the world. We will need to conduct significant additional research, preclinical testing and clinical testing before we can file applications with the FDA, the European Commission and other regulatory authorities for approval of our product candidates. In addition, to compete effectively, our future products must be easy to use, cost-effective and economical to manufacture on a commercial scale. We may not achieve any of these objectives, and, as a result, may not be able to sell any of our product candidates anywhere in the world. We may not successfully enroll patients in our current Phase III clinical trial of defibrotide to treat Veno-Occlusive Disease with multiple-organ failure or the related historical trial. Our current Phase III clinical trial of defibrotide to treat Veno-Occlusive Disease (VOD) with multiple-organ failure in the United States has two elements: the prospective arm, in which defibrotide is administered to the patients, and a historical control arm. We are not conducting a traditional control group of patients who receive no treatment for the reasons discussed in the risk factor below. The protocol for the treatment trial is extremely strict, meaning that only patients who meet very specific criteria are eligible to enroll. The protocol calls for a total enrollment of 80 patients in the prospective arm. Due to the small number of patients who meet the protocol enrollment criteria, we may not be able to enroll these 80 patients in a timely manner or at all. 7 The related historical control arm measures the historical result of patients who contracted VOD with multiple-organ failure at the centers participating in the treatment trial in the past (prior to the start of the treatment trial) and were not treated with defibrotide. We believe that many of the centers participating in our current treatment trial treated patients with defibrotide on a compassionate use (emergency protocol, single IND) for several years before the treatment trial started, and as a result, there may be few patients eligible to enroll in the historical arm of this trial. The historical arm protocol calls for a total enrollment of 80 patients. Again, due to the small number of patients who meet the protocol historical enrollment criteria, we may not be able to enroll these 80 patients in a timely manner or at all, or we may need to expand the number of patients we review to find 80 patients who meet the enrollment criteria, which could result in additional expense to the Company. In such events, we may have to restructure this trial, which would substantially delay the time period before we could commercialize this product. Since our other advanced product candidates are dependent in part upon approval of this lead product candidate, such a delay would also slow development of our other product candidates. The FDA and other regulatory authorities may require us to conduct other clinical trials of defibrotide to treat VOD with multiple-organ failure. The Dana-Farber Cancer Institute at Harvard University conducted a Phase II clinical trial in the United States for the use of defibrotide to treat VOD with multiple-organ failure that concluded in December 2005. Based upon a historical trial by Dana-Farber at three centers consisting of 20 patients and our review of more than 200 articles in the medical literature, we believe that the survival rate for this disease is approximately 20%. As a result of this research and belief and the fact that we believe that there are no approved treatments available at this time, the Dana-Farber clinical investigators did not establish a control group of patients who do not receive the drug, as is customarily done in the FDA approval process, on the basis that it would be unethical to refuse treatment to patients when the treatment being investigated could potentially save their lives. The FDA has stated a preference for a double-blind study that utilizes a control group but indicated that they would review a trial using a historical control only. Our Phase III clinical trial of defibrotide to treat VOD with multiple-organ failure that is currently underway uses historical control only. The FDA, upon reviewing this trial, may require us to conduct a new clinical trial using a control group and other regulatory authorities may take the same position. This could significantly delay the filing of a New Drug Application with the FDA or applications for other regulatory approval for this use because one or more of the clinical centers where the clinical trial is to be conducted may not be willing to conduct such a clinical trial, again on the basis that it is unethical to refuse treatment to patients when the treatment being investigated could potentially save their lives. The committee of clinical investigators who sponsored a Phase II/III clinical trial of defibrotide to treat VOD in Europe conducted by Consorzio Mario Negri Sud, which had a control group, cancelled the trial in October 2005 due to a lack of patients enrolling. We believe that patients were reluctant to enroll due to the possibility of being placed into the control group and not receiving treatment. A requirement for a control group would also require the expenditure of more funds on clinical trials and delay our ability to generate revenue from this product candidate. In addition, the FDA may determine that the Phase III clinical trial and previous clinical trials do not include enough patients to conclusively demonstrate the product candidate’s safety, and could require us to perform additional trials to establish such safety. Such a requirement would require the expenditure of more funds and delay our ability to generate revenue from this product candidate. At present, we do not have sole control of the distribution of defibrotide, and we may not be able to gain such control, which may adversely affect our clinical trials and our pricing of defibrotide. Because defibrotide has been on the market in Italy, we believe it has been purchased and sold in other countries where its use is not licensed or permitted. This could impact our ability to enroll patients in our trials and the timing of such enrollments. Our additional product candidates are at early stages of development and will require clinical trials which may not be successful. We intend to apply for FDA and other regulatory agency approval for our additional product candidates, including other uses of defibrotide, in the future, and these additional product candidates will require that we conduct clinical trials and undergo the regulatory approval process. The commencement and completion of these clinical trials could be delayed or prevented by a variety of factors, including: · delays in identifying and reaching agreement on acceptable terms with institutional review boards of clinical trial providers and prospective clinical trial sites; · delays in obtaining FDA or other regulatory agency clearance to commence a clinical trial; · delays in the enrollment of patients; · lack of effectiveness of the product candidate during clinical trials; or · adverse events or safety issues. 8 We do not know whether these future clinical trials will be initiated or completed at all. Significant delays in clinical trials will impede our ability to commercialize these additional product candidates and generate revenue, and could significantly increase our development costs. We may be required to suspend or discontinue clinical trials due to adverse events or other safety issues that could preclude approval of our products or due to difficulty enrolling participants. Our clinical trials may be suspended at any time for a number of safety-related reasons. For example, we may voluntarily suspend or terminate our clinical trials if at any time we believe that our product candidates present an unacceptable risk to the clinical trial patients. In addition, institutional review boards of clinical trial providers or regulatory agencies may order the temporary or permanent discontinuation of our clinical trials at any time if they believe that the clinical trials are not being conducted in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements, including if they present an unacceptable safety risk to patients. Administering any product candidate to humans may produce undesirable side effects. VOD and VOD with multiple-organ failure are complications associated with high dose chemotherapy and stem cell transplantation. Adverse events involving vascular disorders, coagulation, and potentially life-threatening bleeding have been reported in patients with VOD treated with defibrotide which potentially could be related to the defibrotide therapy. Hypotension has been reported as a possibly related serious adverse event in the trials of defibrotide to treat VOD with multiple-organ failure. Also, we discontinued a 69-patient Phase I/II clinical trial of defibrotide to prevent deep vein thrombosis after hip surgery in Denmark in 2002 after three patients experienced hypotension after receiving the defibrotide intravenously. That trial was discontinued due to the hypotension and because defibrotide can also be administered orally to prevent deep vein thrombosis. These adverse events reports will be weighed by FDA and other regulatory authorities in determining whether defibrotide can, from a risk-benefit perspective, be considered to be safe and effective to treat VOD with multiple-organ failure, to prevent deep vein thrombosis or any other indication for which approval is sought. It is possible that as further data are collected and analyzed, additional adverse events or safety issues could emerge which could impact conclusions relating to the safety of these additional product candidates. As one of our current products and many of our product candidates utilize or will utilize defibrotide, any problems that arise from the use of this drug would severely harm our business operations, since most of our anticipated primary revenue sources would be negatively affected. Furthermore, the committee of clinical investigators who sponsored a Phase II/III clinical trial of defibrotide to treat VOD in Europe that was conducted by Consorzio Mario Negri Sud cancelled the trial in October 2005 due to a lack of enrollees. In addition, the National Institute of Tumors in Milan cancelled a Phase I clinical trial of defibrotide to increase the number of stem cells available for transplant in December 2005 due to a lack of eligible enrollees. We are co-sponsoring with the European Group for Blood and Marrow Transplantation a Phase II/III clinical trial in Europe of defibrotide to prevent VOD in children. The participants in this trial randomly receive either defibrotide or no treatment. We may have difficulty enrolling participants in this trial as patients may be reluctant to take the risk of not receiving treatment with defibrotide. Our other clinical trials may also be discontinued if we or the sponsors are not successful in enrolling participants. We expect to rely upon Sirton to process defibrotide both for current sales in Italy and future sales outside of Italy, and we may not be able to quickly replace Sirton if it fails in its duties. Currently we sell defibrotide to our affiliate, Sirton, which processes it into ampoule or oral formulations and then sells the finished product to Crinos, who resells it in Italy. In connection with our purchase of the Italian marketing authorizations to defibrotide in Italy and related trademarks in Italy, we expect to revise enter into a new contract with Sirton in the near future whereby we hire Sirton to do the processing for us and then we sell the finished product to Crinos, which will distribute them to the Italian market. In addition, we expect to hire Sirton to process defibrotide if and when our advanced product candidates are approved for commercialization. Sirton has experienced financial difficulties recently. If Sirton is not able to perform any processing contract for any reason, it may take us time to find a replacement processor. Such a delay could potentially put us in breach of our distribution agreement with Crinos or other contractual obligations into which we may enter, and could violate local laws requiring us to deliver the product to those in need. Our products could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market and we may be subject to penalties if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements, if and when any of our product candidates are approved. Any product for which we obtain marketing approval, together with the manufacturing processes, post-approval commitments, and advertising and promotional activities for such product, will be subject to continued regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with our products or their manufacture, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in: · restrictions on such products or manufacturing processes; · withdrawal of the products from the market; 9 · voluntary or mandatory recalls; · fines; · suspension of regulatory approvals; · product seizures; or · injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. If we are slow to adapt, or unable to adapt, to changes in existing regulatory requirements or adoption of new regulatory requirements or policies, we may lose marketing approval for our products when and if any of them are approved. Our manufacturing facility is subject to continuing regulation by Italian authorities and is subject to inspection and regulation by the FDA and European regulatory. These authorities could force us to stop manufacturing our products if they determine that we are not complying with applicable regulations or require us to complete further costly alterations to our facility. In addition to researching and developing drugs, we also manufacture drugs, active pharmaceutical ingredients and other products at our manufacturing facility located near Como, Italy. This facility is subject to continuing regulation by the Italian Health Authority and other Italian regulatory authorities. During biannual inspections of our manufacturing facility by the Italian Health Authority in October 2004 and February 2007, the Italian Health Authority noted by way of observations certain minor deficiencies in regard to the operation of our facility. We corrected all of the October 2004 deficiencies and we have a plan on how to correct the February 2007 deficiencies. No penalties were imposed, our facility was not shut down and our manufacturing activities were not otherwise limited or curtailed as a result of the Italian Health Authorities’ notation of these deficiencies. Our manufacturing facility is subject to inspection and regulation by the FDA and European regulatory authorities with respect to manufacturing our product candidates for investigational use. Also, part of the process for obtaining approval from the FDA and European regulatory authorities for our product candidates is approval by those authorities of our manufacturing facility’s compliance with current good manufacturing practices. After receiving initial approval, if any, the FDA or those European regulatory authorities will continue to inspect our manufacturing facility, including inspecting it unannounced, to confirm whether we are complying with the good manufacturing practices. These regulators may require us to stop manufacturing our products and product candidates if they determine that we are not complying with applicable regulations or require us to complete costly alterations to our facility. We spent approximately €7.2 million in 2004 to substantially upgrade our facility in anticipation of the FDA and European regulatory approval process for our product candidates. If our third-party clinical trial vendors fail to comply with strict regulations, the clinical trials for our product candidates may be delayed or unsuccessful. We do not have the personnel capacity to conduct or manage all of the clinical trials that we intend for our product candidates. We rely on third parties to assist us in managing, monitoring and conducting most of our clinical trials. We have entered into and expect to continue to enter into clinical trial agreements with numerous centers in the United States, Canada and possibly other countries regarding our Phase III clinical trial of defibrotide to treat VOD with multiple-organ failure. We have entered into a co-sponsoring agreement with the European Group for Blood and Marrow Transplantation, regarding a Phase II/III clinical trial of defibrotide to prevent VOD in children in Europe. We have entered into an agreement with MDS Pharma Services (U.S.) Inc. to perform clinical research project management services in connection with clinical trials conducted in the United States and agreements with KKS-UKT, GmbH and MDS Pharma Services SpA to provide such services for our clinical trials in Europe. If these third parties fail to comply with applicable regulations or do not adequately fulfill their obligations under the terms of our agreements with them, we may not be able to enter into alternative arrangements without undue delay or additional expenditures, and therefore the clinical trials for our product candidates may be delayed or unsuccessful. Furthermore, the FDA can be expected to inspect some or all of the clinical sites participating in our clinical trials, or our third party vendors’ sites, to determine if our clinical trials are being conducted according to current good clinical practices. If the FDA determines that our third-party vendors are not in compliance with applicable regulations, we may be required to delay, repeat or terminate the clinical trials. Any delay, repetition or termination of our clinical trials could materially harm our business. Our failure to raise additional funds in the future may delay the development of certain of our product candidates and sale of our products. The development and approval of our product candidates and the acquisition and development of additional products or product candidates by us, as well as the expansion of our research, regulatory and manufacturing operations, will require a commitment of substantial funds. Our future capital requirements are dependent upon many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: · the successful and continued development of our existing product candidates in preclinical and clinical testing; 10 · the costs associated with protecting and expanding our patent and other intellectual property rights; · future payments, if any, received or made under existing or possible future collaborative arrangements; · the costs associated with building a future commercial infrastructure; · the timing of regulatory approvals needed to market our product candidates; and · market acceptance of our products. We will need additional funds before we have completed the development of our product candidates. We have no committed sources of additional funds. We cannot assure you that funds will be available to us in the future on favorable terms, if at all. If adequate funds are not available to us on terms that we find acceptable, or at all, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate research and development efforts or clinical trials on any or all of our product candidates. We may also be forced to curtail or restructure our operations, obtain funds by entering into arrangements with collaborators on unattractive terms or relinquish rights to certain technologies or product candidates that we would not otherwise relinquish in order to continue independent operations. We are currently dependent on third parties to market and distribute our products in finished dosage form, and we may continue to be dependent on third parties to market and distribute our products and product candidates. Our internal ability to handle the marketing and distribution functions for our current products and our product candidates is limited and we do not expect to develop the capability to provide marketing and distribution for all of our future products. Our long-term strategy includes either developing marketing and distribution capacity internally or entering into alliances with third parties to assist in the marketing and distribution of our product candidates. We have entered into an agreement with Sigma-Tau Pharmaceuticals, Inc. to market defibrotide to treat VOD in North America, Central America and South America and we may need to develop these capabilities internally or enter into similar agreements to market and distribute our other product candidates. We face, and will continue to face, intense competition from other companies for collaborative arrangements with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, for establishing relationships with academic and research institutions, for attracting investigators and sites capable of conducting our clinical trials and for licenses of proprietary technology. Moreover, these arrangements are complex to negotiate and time-consuming to document. Our future profitability will depend in large part on our ability to enter into effective marketing agreements and our product revenues will depend on those marketers’ efforts, which may not be successful. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, we may be unable to successfully develop and commercialize our product candidates or otherwise manage our business effectively. We are highly dependent on our senior management, whose services are critical to the successful implementation of our product acquisition, development and regulatory strategies. If we lose their services or the services of one or more of the other members of our senior management or other key employees, our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates or otherwise manage our business effectively could be seriously harmed. Replacing key employees may be difficult and may take an extended period of time because of the limited number of individuals in our industry with the breadth of specific skills and experience required to develop, gain regulatory approval of and commercialize products successfully. Competition to hire from this limited pool is intense, and we may be unable to hire, train, retain or motivate these additional key personnel. In addition, under Italian law, we must pay our employees a severance amount based on their salary and years of service if they leave their employment, even if we terminate them for cause or they resign. In order to expand our operations, we will need to hire additional personnel and add corporate functions that we currently do not have. Our ability to manage our operations and growth will require us to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and reporting system and procedures, or contract with third parties to provide these capabilities for us. All of our manufacturing capability is located in one facility that is vulnerable to natural disasters, telecommunication and information system failures, terrorism and similar problems, and we are not insured for losses caused by all of these incidents. We conduct all of our manufacturing operations in one facility located in Villa Guardia, near Como, Italy. This facility could be damaged by fire, floods, earthquake, power loss, telecommunication and information system failures, terrorism or similar events. Our insurance covers losses to our facility, including the buildings, machinery, electronic equipment and goods, for approximately €15 million, but does not insure against all of the losses listed above, including terrorism and some types of flooding. Although we believe that our insurance coverage is adequate for our current and proposed operations, there can be no guarantee that it will adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur. We are not insured for business interruption and we have no replacement manufacturing facility readily available. 11 Our industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid technological changes. As a result, we may be unable to compete successfully or to develop innovative products, which could harm our business. Our industry is highly competitive and subject to significant and rapid technological change as researchers learn more about diseases and develop new technologies and treatments. While we are unaware of any other products or product candidates that treat or prevent VOD or the apoptosis that our product candidate oligotide is designed to treat, we believe that other companies have products or are currently developing products to treat some of the same disorders and diseases that our other product candidates are designed to treat. These companies include British Biotech plc, Boehringer Ingelheim, Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc., ARIAD Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Celgene Corp., Cell Genesys, Inc., Human Genome Sciences, Inc., Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Seattle Genetics, Inc., EntreMed, Inc., Xcyte Therapies, Inc., Amgen, Inc., CuraGen Corporation and Aesgen, Inc. Many of these competitors have substantially greater research and development capabilities and experience, and greater manufacturing, marketing and financial resources, than we do. In addition, these companies’ products and product candidates are in more advanced stages of development than ours or have been approved for sale by the FDA and other regulatory agencies. As a result, these companies may be able to develop their product candidates faster than we can or establish their products in the market before we can. Their products may also prove to be more effective, safer or less costly than our product candidates. This could hurt our ability to recognize any significant revenues from our product candidates. In May 2003, the FDA designated defibrotide as an orphan drug to treat VOD. In January 2007, the FDA designated defibrotide as an option drug to prevent VOD as well. If the FDA approves the New Drug Applications that we intend to file before approving a New Drug Application filed by anyone else for these uses of defibrotide, the orphan drug status will provide us with limited market exclusivity for seven years from the date of the FDA’s approval of our New Drug Application. However, a marketing authorization may be granted for the same therapeutic indications to a similar medicinal product if we give our consent to the second applicant, we are unable to supply sufficient quantities of defibrotide, or the second applicant can establish in its application that the second medicinal product, although similar to defibrotide, is safer, more effective or otherwise clinically superior. In that case, our products would not have market exclusivity. Additionally, while we are not aware of any other company researching defibrotide for these uses, if another company does develop defibrotide for these uses, there is no guarantee that the FDA will approve our New Drug Application before approving anyone else’s defibrotide product for these uses, in which case the first product approved would have market exclusivity and our products would not be eligible for approval until that exclusivity expires. In July 2004, the European Commission designated defibrotide as an orphan medicinal product to both treat and prevent VOD. If the European regulators grant us a marketing authorization for those uses of defibrotide, we will have limited market exclusivity for those uses for ten years after the date of the approval. However, a marketing authorization may be granted for the same therapeutic indications to a similar medicinal product if we give our consent to the second applicant, we are unable to supply sufficient quantities of defibrotide, or the second applicant can establish in its application that the second medicinal product, although similar to defibrotide, is safer, more effective or otherwise clinically superior. In that case, our product would not have market exclusivity. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, our ability to compete could be impaired. Our long-term success largely depends on our ability to create and market competitive products and to protect those creations. Our pending patent applications, or those we may file in the future, may not result in patents being issued. Until a patent is issued, the claims covered by the patent may be narrowed or removed entirely, and therefore we may not obtain adequate patent protection. As a result, we may face unanticipated competition, or conclude that without patent rights the risk of bringing products to the market is too great, thus adversely affecting our operating results. Because of the extensive time required for the development, testing and regulatory review of a product candidate, it is possible that before any of our product candidates can be approved for sale and commercialized, our relevant patent rights may expire or remain in force for only a short period following commercialization. Our issued United States patents expire between 2008 and 2019, and our United States patents for which we have submitted applications will expire between 2008 and 2026. Our United States patent covering defibrotide expires in 2010, and our U.S. patent covering the chemical process for extracting defibrotide expires in 2008. Our European patent covering both defibrotide and the chemical process for extracting defibrotide expired in April 2007. There may be no opportunities to extend these patents and thereby extend FDA and European approval exclusivity, in which case we could face increased competition for our products that are derived from defibrotide. Patent expiration could adversely affect our ability to protect future product development and, consequently, our operating results and financial position. 12 We also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. While we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees, consultants, contractors, outside scientific collaborators and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. We intend to eventually license or sell our products in China, Korea and other countries which do not have the same level of protection of intellectual property rights as exists in the United Sates and Europe. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. Risks Related to Ownership of the ADSs Our largest shareholder exercises significant control over us, which may make it more difficult for you to elect or replace directors or management and approve or reject mergers and other important corporate events. Our largest shareholder, FinSirton, owned approximately 26.4% of our outstanding ordinary shares at March 31, 2007. Dr. Laura Ferro, who is our Chief Executive Officer and President and one of our directors, together with members of her family, controls FinSirton. As a result, Dr. Ferro and her family, through FinSirton, may substantially control the outcome of all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other important corporate events. They may exercise this ability in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily yours. In particular, Dr. Ferro may use her control over FinSirton’s shareholdings in our company to resist any attempts to replace her or other members of our board of directors or management or approve or reject mergers and other important corporate events. Also, the concentration of our beneficial ownership may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in our control, or may discourage bids for the ADSs or our ordinary shares at a premium over the market price of the ADSs. The significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price of the ADSs due to investors’ perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. If a significant number of ADSs are sold into the market, the market price of the ADSs could significantly decline, even if our business is doing well. Our outstanding ordinary shares, ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of warrants and ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of options are not subject to lock-up agreements. We have filed registration statements registering the resale of most of our outstanding ordinary shares and related ADSs and all of our ordinary shares and related ADSs issuable upon exercise of our outstanding warrants and options. Such registration and ultimate sale of the securities in the markets may adversely affect the market for the ADSs. Risks Relating to Being an Italian Corporation The process of seeking to raise additional funds is cumbersome, subject to the verification of a notary public as to compliance with our bylaws and applicable law and may require prior approval of our shareholders at an extraordinary meeting of shareholders. We were incorporated under the laws of the Republic of Italy. The principal laws and regulations that apply to our operations, those of Italy and the European Union, are different from those of the United States. In order to issue new equity or debt securities convertible into equity, with some exceptions, we must increase our authorized capital. In order to do so, our board must meet and resolve to recommend to our shareholders that they approve an amendment to our bylaws to increase our capital. Our shareholders must then approve that amendment to our bylaws in a formal meeting duly called, with the favorable vote of the required majority, which may change depending on whether the meeting is held on a first or subsequent call. These meetings take time to call. In addition, a notary public must verify the compliance of the capital increase with our bylaws and applicable Italian law. Further, under Italian law, our existing shareholders and any holders of convertible securities sometimes have preemptive rights to acquire any such shares on the same terms as are approved concurrent with the new increase of the authorized capital pro rata based on their percentage interests in our company. Also, our shareholders can authorize the board of directors to increase our capital, but the board may exercise such power for only five years. If the authorized capital is not issued by the end of those five years, the authorized capital expires, and our board and shareholders would need to meet again to authorize a new capital increase. This means that any warrants we issue pursuant to this authorization would have a maximum term of 5 years, and, to the degree issued after the shareholder meeting, would have a term of less than 5 years. Our shareholders authorized our board of directors to increase our capital by up to €90 million of par value for ordinary shares and €10 million for ordinary shares issuable upon conversion of convertible bonds on April 28, 2006. Italian law also provides that if the shareholders vote to increase our capital, dissenting, abstaining or absent shareholders representing more than 5% of the outstanding shares of our company may, for a period of 90 days following the filing of the shareholders’ approval with the Registry of Companies, challenge such capital increase if the increase was not in compliance with Italian law. In certain cases (if, for example, a shareholders’ meeting was not called), any interested person may challenge the capital increase for a period of 180 days following the filing of the shareholders’ approval with the Registry of Companies. Finally, once our shareholders authorize a capital increase, we must issue all of those authorized shares before the shareholders may authorize a new capital increase, unless the shareholders vote to cancel the previously authorized shares. These restrictions could limit our ability to issue new equity or convertible debt securities on a timely basis. 13 We are restricted under Italian law as to the amount of debt securities that we may issue relative to our equity. Italian law provides that we may not issue debt securities for an amount exceeding twice the amount of the sum of the aggregate par value of our ordinary shares (which we call our capital), our legal reserve and any other disposable reserves appearing on our latest Italian GAAP balance sheet approved by our shareholders. The legal reserve is a reserve to which we allocate 5% of our Italian GAAP net income each year until it equals at least 20% of our Italian GAAP capital. One of the other reserves that we maintain on our balance sheet is a “share premium reserve”, meaning amounts paid for our ordinary shares in excess of the capital. At December 31, 2006, the sum of our capital, legal reserves and other reserves on our Italian GAAP balance sheet was €35.527 million. If we issue debt securities in the future, until such debt securities are repaid in full, we may not voluntarily reduce our capital or our reserves (such as by declaring dividends) if it results in the aggregate of the capital and reserves being less than half of the outstanding amount of the debt. If our equity is reduced by losses or otherwise such that the amount of the outstanding debt securities is more than twice the amount of our equity, some legal scholars are of the opinion that the ratio must be restored by a recapitalization of our company. If our equity is reduced, we could recapitalize by issuing new shares or having our shareholders contribute additional capital to our company, although there can be no assurance that we would be able to find purchasers for new shares or that any of our current shareholders would be willing to contribute additional capital. If we suffer losses that reduce our capital to less than €120 thousand, we would need to either recapitalize, change our form of entity or be liquidated. Italian law requires us to reduce our shareholders’ equity and, in particular, our capital (aggregate par value of our ordinary shares) to reflect on-going losses. We are also required to maintain a minimum capital of €120 thousand. At December 31, 2006, our Italian GAAP capital was approximately €11.774 million. If we suffer losses from operations that would reduce our capital to less than €120 thousand, then either we must increase our capital (which we could do by issuing new shares or having our shareholders contribute additional capital to our company) or convert the form of our company into an S.r.l., which has a lower capital requirement of €10 thousand. If we did not take these steps, a court could liquidate our company. You may not have the same voting rights as the holders of our ordinary shares and may not receive voting materials in time to be able to exercise your right to vote. Except as described in this annual report and in the deposit agreement for the ADSs, with our depositary, holders of the ADSs will not be able to exercise voting rights attaching to the ordinary shares evidenced by the ADSs on an individual basis. Holders of the ADSs will have the right to instruct the depositary as their representative to exercise the rights attached to the ordinary shares represented by the ADSs. You may not receive voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote, and it is possible that you, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote. You may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings as a result. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. Under our deposit agreement for the ADSs with our depositary, the depositary will not offer those rights to ADS holders unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to ADS holders are either registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. In addition, we may not be able to take advantage of any exemptions from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, holders of our ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings as a result. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs represented by the ADRs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. 14 Due to the differences between Italian and U.S. law, the depositary (on your behalf) may have fewer rights as a shareholder than you would if you were a shareholder of a U.S. company. We are incorporated under the laws of the Republic of Italy. As a result, the rights and obligations of our shareholders are governed by Italian law and our bylaws, and are in some ways different from those that apply to U.S. corporations. Some of these differences may result in the depositary (on your behalf) having fewer rights as a shareholder than you would if you were a shareholder of a U.S. corporation. We have presented a detailed comparison of the Italian laws applicable to our company against Delaware law in “Item 10, Additional Information, Comparison of Italian and Delaware Corporate Laws.” We compared the Italian laws applicable to our company against Delaware law because Delaware is the most common state of incorporation for U.S. public companies. Italian labor laws could impair our flexibility to restructure our business. In Italy, our employees are protected by various laws giving them, through local and central works councils, rights of consultation with respect to specific matters regarding their employers’ business and operations, including the downsizing or closure of facilities and employee terminations. These laws and the collective bargaining agreements to which we are subject could impair our flexibility if we need to restructure our business. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This annual report may contain forward-looking statements that involve substantial risks and uncertainties regarding future events or our future performance. When used in this annual report, the words “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “may,” “intent,” “continue,” “will,” “plan,” “intend,” and “expect” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. You should read statements that contain these words carefully because they discuss our future expectations, contain projections of our future results of operations or of our financial condition or state other “forward-looking” information. We believe that it is important to communicate our future expectations to our investors. Although we believe that our expectations reflected in any forward-looking statements are reasonable, these expectations may not be achieved. The factors listed in the section captioned “Risk Factors,” as well as any cautionary language included in this annual report or incorporated by reference, provide examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations we describe in our forward-looking statements. Before you invest in our ordinary shares, you should be aware that the occurrence of the events described in the “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this annual report could have a material adverse effect on our business, performance, operating results and financial condition. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements set forth in this annual report. Except as required by federal securities laws, we are under no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. You should rely only on the information contained in this annual report. We have not authorized anyone to provide you with information different from that contained in this annual report. The information contained in this annual report is accurate only as of the date of this annual report. ITEM 