Item 1A. Risk Factors If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected and the trading price of our common stock could decline. 5 Table of Contents The concentration of our business with a base of retail customers that make no binding long-term commitments means that economic difficulties or changes in the purchasing policies of our major customers could have a significant impact on our business. A small number of large, retail customers account for a majority of our sales. In fiscal 2013, Babies R Us/Toys R Us generated 31% of our total sales, two other customers accounted for more than 10% of our sales, and a total of seven customers accounted for more than 78% of our total sales. We have no long-term contracts with these customers and because of the significant concentration of our business with these customers, our success depends on our customers' willingness to continue to purchase and provide shelf space for our products. An adverse change in our relationship with any of our large customers could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Liquidity or other financial problems of our key customers could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Sales we make to customers are typically made on credit without collateral. There is a risk that key customers will not pay, or that payment may be delayed, because of contraction of credit availability to such customers, weak retail sales or other factors beyond our control, which could increase our exposure to losses from bad debts. In addition, if key customers were to cease doing business or significantly reduce the number of stores operated, it could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our ability to grow and compete will be harmed if we do not successfully satisfy consumer preferences, enhance existing products, develop and introduce new products, and achieve market acceptance of those products. Our business and operating results depend largely upon providing our customers products that appeal to the end user. Consumer preferences, particularly among parents whom are often the end purchasers of our products, are constantly changing. Our success largely depends on our ability to identify emerging trends in the infant and juvenile health, safety and wellness marketplace, and to design quality products that address consumer preferences and prove safe and cost effective. Our product offerings compete with those of many other larger companies. Many of these companies enjoy broad brand recognition and significant distribution channel relationships, and as a result our market position is always at risk. Our ability to maintain and increase our current market share will depend upon our ability to anticipate changes in consumer preferences and satisfy these preferences, enhance existing products, develop and introduce new products and establish and grow distribution channels for these products, and ultimately achieve market acceptance of these products. An inability to develop and introduce planned new products or product lines in a timely and cost-effective manner may damage our business. In developing new products and product lines, we have anticipated dates for the associated product introductions. When we state that we will introduce, or anticipate introducing, a particular product or product line at a certain time in the future those expectations are based on completing the associated development, implementation, marketing work, and manufacturing in accordance with our currently anticipated development schedule. There is no guarantee that we will be able to manufacture, source and ship new products in a timely manner and on a cost-effective basis to meet constantly changing customer demands. The risk is also heightened by the sophistication of certain products we are designing, in terms of combining digital and analog technologies, utilizing digital media to a greater degree, and providing greater innovation and product differentiation. Unforeseen delays or difficulties in the development process, significant increases in the planned cost of development, changes in 6 Table of Contents anticipated consumer demand for our products, and delays in the manufacturing process may cause the introduction date for products to be later than anticipated or, in some situations, may cause a product introduction to be discontinued. The intense competition in our markets could reduce our net sales and profitability. We operate in a highly competitive market and compete with several large domestic and foreign companies and with other producers of infant and juvenile products. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater brand recognition, and greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than us. In addition, we may face competition from new participants in our markets because the infant and juvenile product industry has low barriers to entry. We experience price competition for our products and competition for shelf space at retailers, all of which may increase in the future. If we cannot compete successfully in the future, our net sales and profitability will likely decline. We rely on external financing to help fund our operations. Covenants in our debt agreements may affect our liquidity or limit our ability to complete acquisitions, incur debt, make investments, sell assets, merge or complete other significant transactions. To meet our working capital needs, we rely on our revolving credit facility for working capital. In 2013, we entered into a new credit agreement expiring in 2018, which provides for an $80 million committed, asset-based revolving credit facility, and a $15 million secured term loan. These agreements contain certain covenants that place limitations on or restrict a number of our activities, including our ability to: •incur additional debt; •create liens on our assets or make guarantees; •make certain investments or loans; •pay dividends; or •dispose of or sell assets or enter into a merger or similar transaction. In addition, these agreements contain financial covenants that were set at the time we entered into the agreements. Our performance and financial condition may not meet our original expectations, causing us to fail to meet such financial covenants. These restrictive covenants may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our best long-term interests. Non-compliance with the covenants in these agreements could result in us being unable to utilize borrowings under our revolving credit facility, a circumstance which potentially could occur when operating shortfalls would most require supplementary borrowings to enable us to continue to fund our operations. If we are unable to generate sufficient available cash flow to service our outstanding debt we would need to refinance such debt or face default. There is no guarantee that we would be able to refinance debt on favorable terms, or at all. Deviations from expected results of operations and expected cash requirements could result in a failure to meet financial covenants under our debt agreements which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Any significant deviation in actual results from our expected results of operations, or in the timing of material expenditures from current estimates, any significant business or product acquisitions, or other significant unanticipated expenses could result in us not meeting our financial covenants under the terms of our credit facility and term loan. In such circumstances, our lenders could declare a default, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If access to our credit facility is limited or terminated, our liquidity would be constrained, affecting our operations and growth prospects, and we would need to seek additional equity or debt financing. There is no assurance that such financing would be available on acceptable terms or at all. Furthermore, any equity financing may result in dilution to existing stockholders and any debt financing may include restrictive covenants that could impede our ability to effectively operate and grow our business in the future. 7 Table of Contents We are dependent on key personnel, and our ability to grow and compete in our industry will be harmed if we do not retain the continued services of our key personnel, or we fail to identify, hire, and retain additional qualified personnel. Our success depends on the efforts of our senior management team and other key personnel. Although we believe that we have a strong management team, the loss of services of members of our senior management team, such as the recent departure of our Chief Executive Officer, whom have substantial experience in the infant and juvenile health, safety and wellness markets could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, if we expect to grow our operations, it will be necessary for us to attract and retain additional qualified personnel. The market for qualified and talented product development personnel in the consumer goods market, and specifically in the infant and juvenile health, safety and wellness products market, is intensely competitive. If we are unable to attract or retain qualified personnel as needed, the growth of our operations could be slowed or hampered. We rely on foreign suppliers in Asia to manufacture the majority of our products, and any adverse change in our relationship with our suppliers could harm our business. We rely on numerous third-party suppliers located in Asia for the manufacture of most of our products. While we believe that alternative suppliers could be located if required, our product sourcing could be affected if any of these suppliers do not continue to manufacture our products in required quantities or at all, or with the required levels of quality. We enter into purchase orders with our foreign suppliers and do not enter into any long-term supply contracts. In addition, difficulties encountered by these suppliers, such as fire, accident, natural disasters, outbreaks of contagious diseases, or political unrest, could halt or disrupt production at the affected locations, resulting in delay or cancellation of orders. Any of these events could result in delayed deliveries by us of our products, causing reduced sales and harm to our reputation and brand name. Increases in the cost of materials or labor used to manufacture our products could decrease our profitability and therefore negatively impact our business and financial condition. Because our products are manufactured by third-party suppliers, we do not directly purchase the materials used in the manufacture of our products. However, the prices paid by us to these suppliers could increase if raw materials, labor, or other costs increase. If we cannot pass these increases along to our customers, our profitability will be adversely affected. Because we rely on foreign suppliers and we sell in foreign markets, we are subject to numerous risks associated with international business that could increase our costs or disrupt the supply of our products, resulting in a negative impact on our business and financial condition. Our international operations subject us to risks, including: •economic and political instability, •restrictive actions by foreign governments, •greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker laws protecting intellectual property rights, •changes in import duties or import or export restrictions, •timely shipping of product and unloading of product through West Coast ports, as well as timely truck delivery to our warehouses, 8 Table of Contents •complications in complying with the laws and policies of the United States affecting the importation of goods, including duties, quotas, and taxes, and •complications in complying with trade and foreign tax laws. Any of these events or circumstances could disrupt the supply of our products or increase our expenses. Because of the importance of our international sourcing of manufacturing to our business, our financial condition and results of operations could be significantly harmed if any of the risks described above were to occur or if we are otherwise unsuccessful in managing our global operations. Intellectual property claims relating to our products could increase our costs and adversely affect our business. We have, from time to time, received claims of alleged infringement of patents relating to certain of our products, and we may face similar claims in the future. These claims relate to alleged patent infringement and are primarily the result of newly-issued patents that were not in force when we initially brought the subject products to market. The defense of intellectual property claims can be costly and time consuming, even in circumstances where the claim is without merit. We may be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs in order to resolve these types of claims. In addition, these claims could materially harm our brand name, reputation and operations. Product liability, product recalls, and other claims relating to the use of our products could increase our costs. Because we produce infant and juvenile health, safety and wellness consumer products, we face product liability risks relating to the use by consumers of our products. We also must comply with a variety of product safety and product testing regulations. In particular, our products are subject to the Consumer Product Safety Act, the Federal Hazardous Substances Act ("FHSA") and the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act ("CPSIA"), which empower the Consumer Product Safety Commission (the "CPSC"), to take action against hazards presented by consumer products. With expanded authority under the CPSIA, the CPSC has and continues to adopt new regulations for safety and products testing that apply to our products. These new regulations have or likely will significantly increase the regulatory requirements governing the manufacture and sale of children's products and increase the potential penalties for noncompliance with applicable regulations. The CPSC has the authority to exclude from the market and recall certain consumer products that are found to be potentially hazardous. Consumer product safety laws also exist in some states and cities within the United States and in Canada and Europe, as well as certain other countries. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, or if we face product liability claims, we may be subject to damage awards or settlement costs that exceed any available insurance coverage and we may incur significant costs in complying with recall requirements. Furthermore, concerns about potential liability may lead us to recall voluntarily selected products. For instance in 2011, we undertook voluntary action to re-label our audio/video nursery monitors and recorded a charge in connection with the settlement of outstanding litigation related to our analog video nursery monitors. Complying with existing or any such additional regulations or requirements could impose increased costs on our business. Similarly, increased penalties for non-compliance could subject us to greater expense in the event any of our products were found to not comply with such regulations. We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities, that, if not identified, could negatively affect our consolidated operating results and net worth. Our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely affected by nondeductible equity-based compensation, earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have lower statutory rates and being higher than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have higher statutory rates, transfer pricing adjustments, not meeting the terms and conditions of tax holidays or incentives, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in actual results 9 Table of Contents versus our estimates, or changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof, and taxes relating to deemed dividends resulting from foreign guarantees made by certain of our foreign subsidiaries. In addition, like other companies, we may be subject to examination of our income tax returns by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. While we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes from such examinations and the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, there can be no assurance that such provision is sufficient and that a determination by a tax authority will not have an adverse effect on our results of operations. A material impairment in the carrying value of acquired goodwill or other intangible assets could negatively affect our consolidated operating results and net worth. A portion of our assets are intangible, which are reviewed on an annual basis and whenever events and changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If the carrying value of these assets exceeds the current fair value, the asset is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value, resulting in a non-cash charge to earnings during the period in which any impairment is determined. Events and conditions that could result in impairment include a sustained drop in the market price of our common stock, increased competition or loss of market share, product innovation or obsolescence, or a decline of our business related to acquired companies. In 2012, we recorded an aggregate non-cash impairment charge of $69,796, consisting of a write down of goodwill of $61,908 and a write down of a portion of intangible assets of $7,888. We cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any future impairment of assets. We may experience difficulties in identifying suitable acquisition targets and integrating strategic acquisitions. In the past, we have made strategic acquisitions and continue to pursue acquisitions that are consistent with our business strategy and enable us to leverage our competitive strengths. While we continue to evaluate potential acquisitions, we may not be able to identify and successfully negotiate suitable acquisitions, obtain financing for future acquisitions on satisfactory terms, obtain regulatory approval for certain acquisitions or otherwise complete acquisitions in the future. An inability to identify future acquisitions could limit our future growth. The integration of operations of any company we do acquire involves a number of risks, including unanticipated costs relating to the integration of acquired business, difficulties in achieving planned cost-savings and synergies and the diversion of management's attention to integration could impair their ability to effectively manage our business operations. In addition, any future acquisition may result in issuances of dilutive equity securities, which may be sold at a discount to market price, the incurrence of debt, unfavorable financing terms, large one-time expenses and the creation of intangible assets, including goodwill, the write-down of which may result in significant charges to earnings. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. The market price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile. When we or our competitors announce new products, experience quarterly fluctuations in operating results, announce strategic relationships, acquisitions or dispositions, change earnings estimates, published financial results or other material news, our stock price is often affected. The volatility of our stock price may be accentuated during periods of low volume trading, which may require a stockholder wishing to sell a large number of shares to do so in increments over time to mitigate any adverse impact of the sales on the market price of our stock. 10 Table of Contents We rely on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption, or security failure of that technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. We rely on information technology systems across our operations, including for management of our supply chain, sale and delivery of our products, and various other processes and transactions, including credit card processing for online sales. Our ability to effectively manage our business and coordinate the production, distribution, and sale of our products depends on the reliability and capacity of these systems and in some instances third-party service providers. The failure of these systems to operate effectively due to service interruptions, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, or a breach in security of these systems could cause delays in product sales and reduced efficiency of our operations, loss of proprietary data or customer information, and capital investments could be required to remediate the problem. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law may limit the ability of our stockholders to control our policies and effect a change of control of our company and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management, which may not be in your best interests. There are provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws that may discourage a third party from making a proposal to acquire us, even if some of our stockholders might consider the proposal to be in their best interests, and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. These provisions include provisions in our certificate of incorporation that authorize our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval and to establish the preferences and rights of any preferred stock issued, which would allow the board to issue one or more classes or series of preferred stock that could discourage or delay a tender offer or change in control, and provisions in our bylaws that require advance written notice of stockholder proposals and director nominations. Additionally, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which, in general, imposes restrictions upon acquirers of 15% or more of our stock. Finally, the board of directors may in the future adopt other protective measures, such as a stockholder rights plan, which could delay, deter or prevent a change of control. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 