RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below, in conjunction with the other information and financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this annual report, before making an investment decision. You should pay particular attention to the fact that we conduct our operations in Italy and are governed by a legal and regulatory environment that in some respects differs significantly from the environment that prevails in other countries with which you may be familiar. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be affected materially and adversely by any or all of these risks. In that event, the market price of our ADSs could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business We may not be able to meet our cash requirements beyond August of 2009 without obtaining additional capital from external sources, and if we are unable to do so, we may not be able to continue as a going concern. As of December 31, 2008, we had €11.49 million in cash and cash equivalents. Subsequent to December 31, 2008, we made a final installment payment of €4 million to Crinos S.p.A. related to the acquisition of marketing authorizations and trademarks for Prociclide and Noravid (both forms of defibrotide). As of the date of this report, we anticipate that our current cash will meet our cash requirements through August of 2009. However, in order for us to continue as a going concern beyond this point, we will need to obtain capital from external sources. We have generated net losses since our inception. Our net losses for the year ended December 31, 2008 and for the year ended December 31, 2007 were €19.90 million and €35.61 million, respectively. We will not be able to continue as a going concern without additional financing. Even if we do raise sufficient capital to support our operating expenses beyond August 2009, there can be no assurances that the proceeds raised will be sufficient to enable us to develop our business to a level where it will generate profits and cash flows from operations. We expect to incur significant losses over the next several years as we conclude our clinical trials, begin new clinical trials, apply for regulatory approvals, continue to develop defibrotide, and pursue commercialization efforts and related activities. Our long-term ability to generate cash from operations is dependent in part on the success of our current strategic partner, Sigma-Tau Pharmaceuticals, Inc., as well as the likelihood and timing of new strategic licensing and partnering relationships and/or successful commercialization of defibrotide. If we incur operating losses for longer than we expect and/or we are unable to raise additional capital, we may become insolvent and unable to continue our operations. Since our inception, we have financed our operations primarily through the sale of equity and convertible notes, interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents, and debt provided through secured lines of credit. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders could be significantly diluted, and these newly-issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing stockholders. If we obtain additional debt financing, a substantial portion of our operating cash flow may be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on such indebtedness, and the terms of the debt securities issued could impose significant restrictions on our operations. We have received a report from Reconta Ernst & Young S.p.A. (the Italian affiliate of Ernst & Young LLP), our independent registered public accounting firm, regarding our US GAAP financial statements as of December 31, 2008 and for the fiscal year then ended, which included an explanatory paragraph stating that our recurring operating losses and need for additional financing have raised substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. This going concern explanatory paragraph included in our auditor’s report could inhibit our ability to enter into strategic alliances or our ability to raise additional capital. Many economists are now predicting that the global economy may face a prolonged recession as a result of the deterioration in the credit markets and related financial crisis, as well as a variety of other factors. While the ultimate outcome of these events cannot be predicted, they may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition if our ability to raise additional funds were to be impaired. The ability of potential patients and/or healthcare payers to pay for defibrotide treatments could also be adversely impacted, thereby limiting our potential revenue. In addition, any negative impacts on our collaborative partners could limit potential revenue from defibrotide. We had a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008. In connection with the audit of our financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting was discovered. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The material weakness related to the operation of controls to review and approve the accounting for certain non-routine and estimation processes. As a result, material adjustments to several of our significant accounts and financial statement disclosures, including intangible assets, accounts receivable from related parties, other assets, and operating expenses, were required. 5 We will take steps to address the material weakness, which we believe will require management’s review of non-routine transactions earlier in the process of closing our books. Our failure to raise additional funds in the future may delay the development of defibrotide. The development and approval of defibrotide will require a commitment of substantial funds. We are attempting to raise additional funds in advance of depleting our current funds. For the year ended December 31, 2008, our average monthly cash used in operating activities was €1.06 million. Capital expenditures for year ended December 31, 2008 was €0.44 million. You should review the additional information about our liquidity and capital resources in the Operating and Financial Review and Prospects section of this annual report. Our future capital requirements are dependent upon many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: · the successful and continued development of defibrotide in preclinical and clinical testing; · the costs associated with protecting and expanding our patent and other intellectual property rights; · future payments, if any, received or made under existing or possible future collaborative arrangements; · the costs associated with building a future commercial infrastructure; · the costs associated with implementing any upgrades to our manufacturing facility required by the UnitedStates Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, European Medicines Agency, or EMEA, or other regulators; · the timing of regulatory approvals needed to market defibrotide; and · market acceptance of defibrotide. We will need additional funds before we have completed the development of defibrotide. We cannot assure you that funds will be available to us in the future on favorable terms, if at all. If adequate funds are not available to us on terms that we find acceptable, or at all, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate research and development efforts or clinical trials on defibrotide. We may also be forced to curtail, cease or restructure our operations, obtain funds by entering into arrangements with collaborators on unattractive terms or relinquish rights to defibrotide that we would not otherwise relinquish in order to continue independent operations. We have generated limited revenues from commercial sales of our products to date and have had significant losses in recent years and we do not know whether we will ever generate significant revenues or achieve profitability. We are focused on product development and have generated limited revenues from commercial sales of our products to date. We had total product sales of €4.08 million, €5.09 million and €5.44 million, in 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively. Even if we are successful selling defibrotide, we may have very limited markets and may not generate enough revenues from defibrotide to fund our business. The FDA and EMEA have designated defibrotide to treat VOD and defibrotide to prevent VOD, as “orphan drugs,” which generally means that fewer than 200,000 people are affected by the disease or condition. We expect to continue to incur significant expenses as we develop and seek regulatory approval for defibrotide. We incurred a net loss of €14.37 million, €35.61 million and €19.90 million in 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively. We cannot assure you that we will ever become profitable. If we fail to achieve profitability within the time frame expected by investors or securities analysts, the market price of our American Depositary Shares (“ADSs”) may decline. We currently do not have any regulatory approvals to sell defibrotide to treat or prevent VOD, and we cannot guarantee that we will ever be able to sell defibrotide to treat or prevent VOD anywhere in the world. We must demonstrate that defibrotide satisfies rigorous standards of safety and effectiveness before the FDA, EMEA and other regulatory authorities will approve defibrotide for commercial marketing. We or others must conduct clinical trials of defibrotide, which must be approved by the FDA or other regulatory agencies. These trials are time-consuming and expensive, and we cannot guarantee whether they will be successful. We do not have approval to sell defibrotide to treat or prevent VOD. We will need to conduct significant additional research, preclinical testing and clinical testing before we can file applications with the FDA, EMEA and other regulatory authorities for approval defibrotide. As a result, we may not be able to sell defibrotide anywhere in the world. 6 The FDA and other regulatory authorities may require us to conduct other clinical trials of defibrotide to treat severe VOD or prevent VOD. The Dana-Farber Cancer Institute at Harvard University conducted a Phase II clinical trial in the United States for the use of defibrotide to treat severe VOD that concluded in December 2005. Based upon a historical study conducted by Dana-Farber at three centers consisting of 38 patients, we believe that, without treatment, the complete response rate within 100 days after stem cell transplantation is approximately 11% and the survival rate for this disease is approximately 20% after 100 days. As a result of this research and belief and the fact that we believe that there are no approved treatments available at this time, the Dana-Farber clinical investigators did not establish a control group of patients who do not receive the drug, as is customarily done in the FDA approval process, on the basis that it would be unethical to refuse treatment to patients when the treatment being investigated could potentially save their lives. The FDA has stated a preference for a study that utilizes a concurrent control group of untreated patients, but indicated that they would review a trial using a historical control group of untreated patients only. Our current Phase III clinical trial of defibrotide to treat severe VOD used a separate historical control group of untreated patients only. We do not believe that our current Phase III clinical trial of defibrotide to treat severe VOD will produce sufficient data to obtain regulatory approval in the United States or Europe; however we do expect to utilize this data as supportive data for future clinical trials. We will likely have to conduct a new clinical trial of defibrotide to treat VOD using a concurrent control group of untreated patients. We currently do not, and we may never, have enough capital to commence and complete a new clinical trial of defibrotide to treat severe VOD. In addition, even if we commence a new clinical trial, one or more clinical centers where the clinical trial is to be conducted may not be willing to conduct such a clinical trial on the basis that it is unethical to refuse treatment to patients when the treatment being investigated could potentially save their lives. The committee of clinical investigators who sponsored a Phase II/III clinical trial of defibrotide to treat VOD in Europe conducted by Consorzio Mario Negri Sud, which had a concurrent control group of untreated patients, cancelled the trial in October 2005 due to a lack of patients enrolling. We believe that patients were reluctant to enroll due to the possibility of being placed into the control group and not receiving treatment. Therefore, we may never be able to obtain regulatory approval of defibrotide to treat VOD. In January 2009, we completed enrollment of our Phase II/III clinical trial of defibrotide to prevent VOD in children in Europe. While EMEA may eventually grant us approval for this indication in Europe, and any such approval may be conditioned upon running an additional trial, which we may not be able to fund. In addition, the FDA may require us to provide sufficient data on our treatment indication to support approval for our prevention indication. Our current Phase III trial is not likely to produce sufficient data to support approval in the United States for our prevention indication and we may not be able to commence and complete a new trial for the treatment of VOD. Accordingly, we may not be able to obtain US regulatory approval of defibrotide to prevent VOD. We may be required to suspend or discontinue clinical trials due to adverse events or other safety issues that could preclude approval of defibrotide. Our clinical trials may be suspended at any time for a number of safety-related reasons. For example, we may voluntarily suspend or terminate our clinical trials if at any time we believe that defibrotide prevents an unacceptable risk to the clinical trial patients. In addition, institutional review boards or regulatory agencies may order the temporary or permanent discontinuation of our clinical trials at any time if they believe that the clinical trials are not being conducted in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements, including if they present an unacceptable safety risk to patients. Administering any product candidate to humans may produce undesirable side effects. VOD is a complication associated with high dose chemotherapy and stem cell transplantation. Adverse events involving vascular disorders, coagulation, and potentially life-threatening bleeding have been reported in patients with VOD treated with defibrotide which potentially could be related to the defibrotide therapy. Hypotension has been reported as a possibly related serious adverse event in the trials of defibrotide to treat severe VOD. Also, we discontinued a 69-patient Phase I/II clinical trial of defibrotide to prevent deep vein thrombosis after hip surgery in Denmark in 2002 after three patients experienced hypotension after receiving the defibrotide intravenously. That trial was discontinued due to the hypotension and because defibrotide can also be administered orally to prevent deep vein thrombosis. These adverse events reports will be weighed by the FDA and other regulatory authorities in determining whether defibrotide can, from a risk-benefit perspective, be considered to be safe and effective to treat severe VOD, to prevent deep vein thrombosis or any other indication for which approval is sought. It is possible that as further data are collected and analyzed, additional adverse events or safety issues could emerge which could impact conclusions relating to the safety of defibrotide. Any problems that arise from the use of defibrotide would severely harm our business operations. 7 We expect to rely upon our affiliates, FinSirton S.p.A. and Sirton Pharmaceuticals S.p.A., for various services, and we may not be able to quickly replace these services if either FinSirton or Sirton, or both, go bankrupt. We depend on a number of services from Sirton Pharmaceuticals S.p.A., including steam related to our manufacturing plant, and lab space. In addition, we currently rely upon Sirton to fill and finish defibrotide for use in our clinical trials and compassionate use programs. We also lease lab, storage and office space from Sirton’s parent company, FinSirton S.p.A. As discussed in the below risk factor, Sirton has not been able to pay its receivable to us. If FinSirton or Sirton, or both, were to go bankrupt or otherwise cease in providing these services, we may not be able to replace these services in a timely manner. Such a delay would impact our clinical trials, compassionate use programs, and impact our revenues. Sirton, who is our affiliate, owes us a large receivable that we may not be able to collect. At December 31, 2008, Sirton owed us a receivable of €2.10 million and we owed Sirton a payable of €0.30 million. Sirton has been unable to make timely payments on the outstanding receivables. In 2008, the Company and Sirton formally offset €3.23 million of payables due to Sirton against the same amount of receivables due from Sirton. We may never be able to collect the net receivables due to us from Sirton. Defibrotide could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market and we may be subject to penalties if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements, if and when defibrotide is approved. Any product for which we obtain marketing approval, together with the manufacturing processes, post-approval commitments, and advertising and promotional activities for such product, will be subject to continued regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with defibrotide or its manufacture, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in: · restrictions on defibrotide or manufacturing processes; · withdrawal of defibrotide from the market; · voluntary or mandatory recalls; · fines; · suspension of regulatory approvals; · product seizures; or · injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. If we are slow to adapt, or unable to adapt, to changes in existing regulatory requirements or adoption of new regulatory requirements or policies, we may lose marketing approval for defibrotide when and if defibrotide is approved. Our manufacturing facility and the manufacturing facility of Patheon, who will fill and finish defibrotide, are subject to continuing regulation by Italian authorities and are subject to inspection and regulation by the FDA and EMEA. These authorities could force us to stop manufacturing our products if they determine that we or Patheon are not complying with applicable regulations or require us to complete further costly alterations to our facilities. We manufacture active pharmaceutical ingredients at our manufacturing facility in Italy. We have hired Patheon to process our lead active pharmaceutical ingredient, defibrotide, into the finished drug at Patheon’s manufacturing facility. These facilities are subject to continuing regulation by the Italian Health Authority and other Italian regulatory authorities with respect to manufacturing our current products. The facilities are also subject to inspection and regulation by the FDA and EMEA with respect to manufacturing our product candidates for investigational use. Also, part of the process for obtaining approval from the FDA and EMEA for defibrotide is approval by those authorities of these manufacturing facilities compliance with current good manufacturing practices. After receiving initial approval, if any, the FDA or EMEA will continue to inspect our manufacturing facilities, including inspecting them unannounced, to confirm whether we and Patheon are complying with the good manufacturing practices. These regulators may require us to stop manufacturing our products and may deny us approval to manufacture our product candidates if they determine that we or Patheon are not complying with applicable regulations. In addition, these regulators may require us to complete costly alterations to our facilities. We expect to rely upon a sole processor, Patheon Italia S.p.A., to fill and finish defibrotide into marketable formulations, and we may not be able to quickly replace Patheon if it fails in its duties. We have entered into an agreement with Patheon Italia S.p.A. to fill and finish defibrotide. If Patheon does not or is not able to perform these services for any reason, it may take us time to find a replacement processor. Such a delay could potentially put us in breach of our contractual obligations into which we may enter, violate local laws requiring us to deliver the product to those in need and impact our revenues. 8 We may have difficulty obtaining raw material for defibrotide. Defibrotide is based on pig intestines. If our current sources of pig intestines develop safety problems or other issues that impact our supply of pig intestines, we may not be able to find alternative suppliers in a timely fashion. In that case, we would have to slow or cease our manufacture of defibrotide. If our third-party clinical trial vendors fail to comply with strict regulations, the clinical trials for defibrotide may be delayed or unsuccessful. We do not have the personnel capacity to conduct or manage all of the clinical trials that we intend for defibrotide. We rely on third parties to assist us in managing, monitoring and conducting our clinical trials. We have entered into and expect to continue to enter into clinical trial agreements with numerous centers in the United States, Canada and Israel regarding our Phase III clinical trial of defibrotide to treat severe VOD. We have entered into a co-sponsoring agreement with the European Group for Blood and Marrow Transplantation, regarding a Phase II/III clinical trial of defibrotide to prevent VOD in children in Europe. We have entered into an agreement with MDS Pharma Services (U.S.) Inc. to perform clinical research services in connection with clinical trials conducted in the United States and agreements with KKS-UKT, GmbH and MDS Pharma Services S.p.A. to provide such services for our clinical trials in Europe. If these third parties fail to comply with applicable regulations or do not adequately fulfill their obligations under the terms of our agreements with them, we may not be able to enter into alternative arrangements without undue delay or additional expenditures and, therefore, the clinical trials for defibrotide may be delayed or unsuccessful. Furthermore, the FDA can be expected to inspect some or all of the clinical sites participating in our clinical trials, or our third party vendors’ sites, to determine if our clinical trials are being conducted according to good clinical practices. If the FDA determines that these clinical sites or our third-party vendors are not in compliance with applicable regulations, we may be required to delay, repeat or terminate the clinical trials. Any delay, repetition or termination of our clinical trials could materially harm our business. We are currently dependent on third parties to market and distribute defibrotide in finished dosage form, and we may continue to be dependent on third parties to market and distribute defibrotide. Our internal ability to handle the marketing and distribution functions for defibrotide is limited and we do not expect to develop the capability to provide marketing and distribution for defibrotide. Our long-term strategy includes either developing marketing and distribution capacity internally or entering into alliances with third parties to assist in the marketing and distribution of our product candidates. We have entered into an agreement with Sigma-Tau Pharmaceuticals, Inc. to market defibrotide to treat VOD in North America, Central America and South America and we may need to develop these capabilities internally or enter into similar agreements to market and distribute defibrotide to prevent VOD. We face, and will continue to face, intense competition from other companies for collaborative arrangements with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, for establishing relationships with academic and research institutions, for attracting investigators and sites capable of conducting our clinical trials and for licenses of proprietary technology. Moreover, these arrangements are complex to negotiate and time-consuming to document. Our future profitability will depend in large part on our ability to enter into effective marketing agreements and our product revenues will depend on those marketers’ efforts, which may not be successful. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, we may be unable to successfully develop and commercialize defibrotide or otherwise manage our business effectively. We are highly dependent on our senior management, whose services are critical to the successful implementation of our product acquisition, development and regulatory strategies. If we lose their services or the services of one or more of the other members of our senior management or other key employees, our ability to successfully commercialize defibrotide or otherwise manage our business effectively could be seriously harmed. Replacing key employees may be difficult and may take an extended period of time because of the limited number of individuals in our industry with the breadth of specific skills and experience required to develop, gain regulatory approval of and commercialize defibrotide successfully. Competition to hire from this limited pool is intense, and we may be unable to hire, train, retain or motivate these additional key personnel. In addition, under Italian law, we must pay our Italian employees a severance amount based on their salary and years of service if they leave their employment, even if we terminate them for cause or they resign. In order to expand our operations, we will need to hire additional personnel and add corporate functions that we currently do not have. Our ability to manage our operations and growth will require us to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and reporting system and procedures, or contract with third parties to provide these capabilities for us. 9 All of our manufacturing capability is located in one facility that is vulnerable to natural disasters, telecommunication and information system failures, terrorism and similar problems, and we are not insured for losses caused by all of these incidents. We conduct all of our manufacturing operations in one facility located in Villa Guardia, near Como, Italy. This facility could be damaged by fire, floods, earthquake, power loss, telecommunication and information system failures, terrorism or similar events. Our insurance covers losses to our facility, including the buildings, machinery, electronic equipment and goods, for approximately €15 million, but does not insure against all of the losses listed above, including terrorism and some types of flooding. Although we believe that our insurance coverage is adequate for our current and proposed operations, there can be no guarantee that it will adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur. We are not insured for business interruption and we have no replacement manufacturing facility readily available. We have sold Prociclide and Noravid (both forms of defibrotide) in Italy to treat vascular disease with risk of thrombosis, which may affect the pricing of defibrotide for the prevention or treatment of VOD. Until December 31, 2008, through our distribution agreement with Crinos S.p.A., we sold Prociclide and Noravid (both forms of defibrotide) in Italy to treat vascular disease with risk of thrombosis. While we have stopped selling Prociclide and Noravid for this treatment in Italy, if defibrotide is approved for sale in Europe or Italy to treat and prevent VOD, or both, we may need to also obtain approval from regulators as to what price we can charge for these uses of defibrotide. The regulators may impose an artificially low cap on defibrotide based on the relatively low price-point of Prociclide and Noravid previously sold in Italy for the treatment of vascular disease with risk of thrombosis. Our industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid technological changes. As a result, we may be unable to compete successfully or to develop innovative products, which could harm our business. Our industry is highly competitive and subject to significant and rapid technological change as researchers learn more about diseases and develop new technologies and treatments. While we are unaware of any other products or product candidates that treat or prevent VOD, we believe that other companies have products or are currently developing products to treat some of the same disorders and diseases that defibrotide is designed to treat. These companies include Genzyme Corp., Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Eisai Co., Ltd., and Celgene Corp. Many of these competitors have substantially greater research and development capabilities and experience, and greater manufacturing, marketing and financial resources, than we do. In addition, these companies’ products and product candidates are in more advanced stages of development than ours or have been approved for sale by the FDA and other regulatory agencies. As a result, these companies may be able to develop their product candidates faster than we can or establish their products in the market before we can. Their products may also prove to be more effective, safer or less costly than defibrotide, which could hurt our ability to recognize any significant revenues. In May 2003, the FDA designated defibrotide as an orphan drug to treat VOD. In January 2007, the FDA designated defibrotide as an orphan drug to prevent VOD as well. If the FDA approves the New Drug Applications that we intend to file before approving a New Drug Application filed by anyone else for these uses of defibrotide, the orphan drug status will provide us with limited market exclusivity for seven years from the date of the FDA’s approval of our New Drug Application. However, a marketing authorization to another applicant may be granted for the same product if we give our consent to the second applicant, we are unable to supply sufficient quantities of defibrotide, or the second applicant can establish in its application that its product is safer, more effective or otherwise clinically superior to our product. In that case, our product would not have market exclusivity. Additionally, while we are not aware of any other company researching defibrotide for these uses, if another company does develop defibrotide for these uses, there is no guarantee that the FDA will approve our New Drug Application before approving the other company’s defibrotide product for these uses, in which case the first product approved would have market exclusivity and our products would not be eligible for approval until that exclusivity expires. In July 2004, EMEA designated defibrotide as an orphan medicinal product to both treat and prevent VOD. If the European regulators grant us a marketing authorization for those uses of defibrotide, we will have limited market exclusivity for those uses for ten years after the date of the approval. However, a marketing authorization may be granted to another applicant for the same product if we give our consent to the second applicant, we are unable to supply sufficient quantities of defibrotide, or the second applicant can establish in its application that its product is safer, more effective or otherwise clinically superior to our product. In that case, our product would not have market exclusivity. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, our ability to compete could be impaired. Our long-term success largely depends on our ability to create and market competitive products and to protect those creations. Our pending patent applications, or those we may file in the future, may not result in patents being issued. Until a patent is issued, the claims covered by the patent may be narrowed or removed entirely and, therefore, we may not obtain adequate patent protection. As a result, we may face unanticipated competition, or conclude that without patent rights the risk of bringing products to the market is too great, thus adversely affecting our operating results. 10 Because of the extensive time required for the development, testing and regulatory review of a product candidate, it is possible that before defibrotide can be approved for sale and commercialized, our relevant patent rights may expire or remain in force for only a short period following commercialization. We have been issued a patent in the U.S. and several other countries which covers the method for determining the biological activity of defibrotide. This patent expires in 2022 in most countries. We believe this to be an important patent because the analytical release of a biological product like defibrotide is a key step in confirming the purity and biological activity of the final product. There may be no opportunities to extend this patent and thereby extend exclusivity related to FDA and EMEA, in which case we could face increased competition for defibrotide. Patent expiration could adversely affect our ability to protect future product development and, consequently, our operating results and financial position. In addition, generic innovators may be able to circumvent this patent and design a novel analytical method for determining the biological activity of defibrotide. In this case, a generic defibrotide could potentially be on the market once the relevant protections offered by our orphan designations end. We also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. While we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees, consultants, contractors, outside scientific collaborators and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. We intend to eventually license or sell our products in China, South Korea and other countries which do not have the same level of protection of intellectual property rights that exists in the United Sates and Europe. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. Risks Related to Ownership of the American Depositary Shares Our ADSs have generally had low trading volume, and its public trading price has been volatile. Between our initial public offering on June 21, 2005 and December 31, 2008, the closing price of our American Depositary Shares, or ADSs, have fluctuated between $.40 and $24.40 per share, with an average daily trading volume for the twelve months ended December 31, 2008 of approximately 49,234 ADSs. The market may experience significant price and volume fluctuations that are often unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. In addition to general market volatility, many factors may have a significant adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs, including: • continuing operating losses, which we expect over the next several years as we continue our development activities; • announcements of decisions made by regulators; • results of our preclinical studies and clinical trials; • announcements of improvements, new commercial products, failures of products, or progress toward commercialization by our competitors or peers; • developments concerning proprietary rights, including patent and litigation matters; • publicity regarding actual or potential results with respect to product candidates under development by us or by our competitors; • regulatory developments; and • quarterly fluctuations in our financial results. We may not remain listed on the Nasdaq Global Market. Between our public offering and May 2006, our ADSs were listed on the American Stock Exchange. Since May 2006, our ADSs have been listed on the Nasdaq Global Market. The Nasdaq Global Market sets forth various requirements that we must meet in order for our ADSs to continue to be listed on the Nasdaq Global Market. Violations of the continued listing requirements include: • if the closing bid price of our ADSs drops below $1.00 for a period of 30 consecutive trading days; • if our stockholders’ equity falls below $10 million; or • if we fail to maintain a market value of publicly held securities of at least $5 million for 30 consecutive trading days. 11 If we violate any of these continued listing requirements, our ADSs could be delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market. The delisting of our ADSs could have negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by suppliers and employees, the loss of institutional investor interest, and fewer business development opportunities. On October 16, 2008, given the extraordinary market conditions, Nasdaq suspended the enforcement of the rules requiring a minimum $1.00 closing bid price and requiring a minimum market value of publicly held shares for the Nasdaq Global Market. Nasdaq extended the minimum bid price and market value requirements on December 19, 2008 and again on March 23, 2009, so that these requirements do not need to be met until June 20, 2009. However, this suspension does not apply to the stockholders’ equity requirement of $10 million. As of December 31, 2008, our stockholders’ equity was approximately $14.55 million. If we fail to meet the stockholders’ equity, or fail to meet the minimum bid price and minimum market value requirements after the suspension, we may be delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market. Our largest shareholders exercise significant control over us, which may make it more difficult for you to elect or replace directors or management and approve or reject mergers and other important corporate events. Our largest shareholder, FinSirton S.p.A., owned approximately 25% of our outstanding ordinary shares at March 31, 2009. Dr. Laura Ferro, who is our Chief Executive Officer and President and one of our directors, together with members of her family controls FinSirton. In addition, Sigma-Tau Finanziaria S.p.A., along with its affiliates, owns approximately 18% of our outstanding ordinary shares at March 31, 2009. Marco Codella, who is the chief financial officer of Sigma-Tau Finanziaria, serves as a member of our board of directors. Moreover, we have licensed our rights in defibrotide to treat severe VOD to Sigma-Tau Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Sigma-Tau Finanziaria. Both FinSirton and Sigma-Tau Finanziaria may substantially control the outcome of all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other important corporate events. They may exercise this ability in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily yours. Also, the concentration of our beneficial ownership may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in our control, or may discourage bids for the ADSs or our ordinary shares at a premium over the market price of the ADSs. The significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price of the ADSs due to investors’ perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. As discussed in our risk factor entitled “Our shareholders can prevent us from executing a financing by alleging that our board of directors acted with serious irregularities when approving such financing, because the terms of such financing could harm our company,” both FinSirton and Sigma-Tau Finanziaria own enough of our ordinary shares to bring legal action against our board of directors and may be able to prevent us from completing an important corporate event, such as a financing. If a significant number of ADSs are sold into the market, the market price of the ADSs could significantly decline, even if our business is doing well. Our outstanding ordinary shares, ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of warrants and ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of options are not subject to lock-up agreements. We have filed registration statements registering the resale of most of our outstanding ordinary shares and related ADSs and all of our ordinary shares and related ADSs issuable upon exercise of our outstanding warrants and options. Such registration and ultimate sale of the securities in the markets may adversely affect the market for the ADSs. You may not have the same voting rights as the holders of our ordinary shares and may not receive voting materials in time to be able to exercise your right to vote. Except as described in this annual report and in the deposit agreement for the ADSs with our depositary, holders of the ADSs will not be able to exercise voting rights attaching to the ordinary shares evidenced by the ADSs on an individual basis. Holders of the ADSs will have the right to instruct the depositary as their representative to exercise the rights attached to the ordinary shares represented by the ADSs. You may not receive voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote, and it is possible that you, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote. You may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings as a result. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. Under our deposit agreement for the ADSs with our depositary, the depositary will not offer those rights to ADS holders unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to ADS holders are either registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. In addition, we may not be able to take advantage of any exemptions from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, holders of our ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings as a result. 12 You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs represented by the ADRs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. Risks Relating to Being an Italian Corporation The process of seeking to raise additional funds is cumbersome, subject to the verification of an Italian notary public as to compliance with our bylaws and applicable law and may require prior approval of our shareholders at an extraordinary meeting of shareholders. We are incorporated under the laws of the Republic of Italy. The principal laws and regulations that apply to our operations, those of Italy and the European Union, are different from those of the United States. In order to issue new equity or debt securities convertible into equity, with some exceptions, we must increase our authorized capital. In order to do so, our board must meet and resolve to recommend to our shareholders that they approve an amendment to our bylaws to increase our capital. Our shareholders must then approve that amendment to our bylaws in an extraordinary meeting duly called, upon the favorable vote of the required majority, which may change depending on whether the meeting is held on a first or second call. These meetings take time to call. In addition, an Italian notary public must verify the compliance of the capital increase with our bylaws and applicable Italian law. Further, under Italian law, our existing shareholders and any holders of convertible securities sometimes have preemptive rights to acquire any such shares on the same terms as are approved, concurrently with the new increase of the authorized capital pro rata based on their percentage interests in our company. Also, our shareholders can authorize the board of directors to increase our capital, but the board may exercise such power for only five years. If the authorized capital is not issued by the end of those five years, the authorized capital expires, and our board and shareholders would need to meet again to authorize a new capital increase. Our shareholders authorized our board of directors to increase our capital by up to €90 million of par value for ordinary shares and €10 million for ordinary shares issuable upon conversion of convertible bonds on April 28, 2006. Italian law provides that any interested person may, for a period of 180 days following the filing of the shareholders’ resolution concerning the approval of the capital increase with the Register of Companies, challenge such capital increase if the increase was not in compliance with Italian law. If a shareholders’ meeting was not called to approve the capital increase, any interested person may challenge the capital increase for a period of 90 days following the next shareholders’ meeting. In addition, once our shareholders authorize a capital increase, we must issue all of those authorized shares before the shareholders may authorize a new capital increase, unless the shareholders vote to cancel the previously authorized shares. These restrictions could limit our ability to issue new equity or convertible debt securities on a timely basis.. Our shareholders can prevent us from executing a financing by alleging that our board of directors acted with serious irregularities when approving such financing, because the terms of such financing could harm our company. On August 12, 2008, Sigma Tau Finanziaria S.p.A., together with one of its affiliates, filed a claim in the court of Como claiming that our board of directors acted with serious irregularities in violation of their duties as directors when approving a potential financing, because such financing could harm the company. On August 18, 2008, the court of Como issued a temporary order preventing us from moving forward with the potential financing. While this claim was later dismissed for lack of damages, it did, nonetheless, prevent the directors from approving a potential financing. Any group of shareholders constituting at least 10% of our outstanding ordinary shares could bring a similar action on a future board resolution regarding a financing or other important corporate action, and an Italian court could prevent the transaction from moving forward by issuing an order to that effect. We are restricted under Italian law as to the amount of debt securities that we may issue relative to our equity. Italian law provides that we may not issue debt securities for an amount exceeding twice the amount of the sum of the aggregate par value of our ordinary shares (which we call our capital), our legal reserve and any other disposable reserves appearing on our latest Italian GAAP balance sheet approved by our shareholders. The legal reserve is a reserve to which we allocate 5% of our Italian GAAP net income each year until it equals at least 20% of our Italian GAAP capital. One of the other reserves that we maintain on our balance sheet is a “share premium reserve”, meaning amounts paid for our ordinary shares in excess of the par value for such ordinary shares. At December 31, 2008, the sum of our capital, legal reserves and other reserves on our unaudited Italian GAAP balance sheet was €31.51 million. If we issue debt securities in the future, until such debt securities are repaid in full, we may not voluntarily reduce our capital or allocate our reserves (such as by declaring dividends) if it results in the aggregate of the capital and reserves being less than half of the outstanding amount of the debt. If our equity is reduced by losses or otherwise such that the amount of the outstanding debt securities is more than twice the amount of our equity, some legal scholars are of the opinion that the ratio must be restored by a recapitalization of our company. If our equity is reduced, we could recapitalize by issuing new shares or having our shareholders contribute additional capital to our company, although there can be no assurance that we would be able to find purchasers for new shares or that any of our current shareholders would be willing to contribute additional capital. 13 If we suffer losses that reduce our capital to less than €120 thousand, we would need to either recapitalize, change our form of entity or be liquidated. Italian law requires us to reduce our shareholders’ equity and, in particular, our capital (aggregate par value of our ordinary shares) to reflect on-going losses. We are also required to maintain a minimum capital of €120 thousand. At December 31, 2008, our Italian GAAP capital was approximately €14.96 million. If we suffer losses from operations that reduce our capital to less than €120 thousand, then either we must increase our capital (which we could do by issuing new shares or having our shareholders contribute additional capital to our company) to at least €120 thousand or convert the form of our company into an S.r.l., which has a lower capital requirement of €10 thousand. If we did not take these steps, our company could be liquidated. We apply our losses from operations against our legal reserves and capital. If our capital is reduced for more than one-third as a result of losses, our board of directors must call a shareholders’ meeting as soon as possible. The shareholders must vote to elect to either reduce the legal reserves and capital by the amount of the remaining losses, or to carry the losses forward for up to one year. If the shareholders vote to elect to carry the losses forward up to one year, and at the end of the year, the losses are still more than one-third of the amount of the legal reserves and capital, then we must reduce our legal reserves and capital by the amount of the losses. Due to the differences between Italian and U.S. law, the depositary (on your behalf) may have fewer rights as a shareholder than you would if you were a shareholder of a U.S. company. We are incorporated under the laws of the Republic of Italy. As a result, the rights and obligations of our shareholders are governed by Italian law and our bylaws, and are in some ways different from those that apply to U.S. corporations. Some of these differences may result in the depositary (on your behalf) having fewer rights as a shareholder than you would if you were a shareholder of a U.S. corporation. We have presented a detailed comparison of the Italian laws applicable to our company against Delaware law in “Item 10, Additional Information, Comparison of Italian and Delaware Corporate Laws.” We compared the Italian laws applicable to our company against Delaware law because Delaware is the most common state of incorporation for U.S. public companies. Italian labor laws could impair our flexibility to restructure our business. In Italy, our employees are protected by various laws giving them, through local and central works councils, rights of consultation with respect to specific matters regarding their employers’ business and operations, including the downsizing or closure of facilities and employee terminations. These laws and the collective bargaining agreements to which we are subject could impair our flexibility if we need to restructure our business. 14 FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This annual report may contain forward-looking statements that involve substantial risks and uncertainties regarding future events or our future performance. When used in this annual report, the words “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “may,” “intent,” “continue,” “will,” “plan,” “intend,” and “expect” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. You should read statements that contain these words carefully because they discuss our future expectations, contain projections of our future results of operations or of our financial condition or state other “forward-looking” information. We believe that it is important to communicate our future expectations to our investors. Although we believe that our expectations reflected in any forward-looking statements are reasonable, these expectations may not be achieved. The factors listed in the section captioned “Risk Factors,” as well as any cautionary language included in this annual report or incorporated by reference, provide examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations we describe in our forward-looking statements. Before you invest in our ordinary shares, you should be aware that the occurrence of the events described in the “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this annual report could have a material adverse effect on our business, performance, operating results and financial condition. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements set forth in this annual report. Except as required by federal securities laws, we are under no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. You should rely only on the information contained in this annual report. We have not authorized anyone to provide you with information different from that contained in this annual report. The information contained in this annual report is accurate only as of the date of this annual report. 