RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below, in conjunction with the other information and financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this annual report, before making an investment decision. You should pay particular attention to the fact that we conduct our operations in Italy and are governed by a legal and regulatory environment that in some respects differs significantly from the environment that prevails in other countries with which you may be familiar. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be affected materially and adversely by any or all of these risks. In that event, the market price of our ADSs could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business We may not be able to meet our future cash requirements without obtaining additional capital from external sources. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately €8.7 million in cash and cash equivalents. We have generated a significant portion of our revenue through the distribution of our primary product candidate, defibrotide, on a pre-approval basis under a treatment IND protocol, which we call our cost recovery program, in the U.S, and through a named-patient program throughout the rest of the world. Prior to the initiation of these compassionate use programs in 2009, we had only generated net losses. We do not know how much longer we will be able to distribute defibrotide through these compassionate use programs. We expect that existing cash and cash equivalents with respect to the anticipated cash flow from product sales will be sufficient to support our current operation for at least the next twelve months. We will need additional funds if our cash requirements exceed our current expectation or if we generate less revenue than we expect. Historically, we have financed our operations primarily through the sale of equity and convertible notes, interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents, and debt provided through secured lines of credit. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders could be significantly diluted, and these newly-issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing stockholders. If we obtain additional debt financing, a substantial portion of our operating cash flow may be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on such indebtedness, and the terms of the debt securities issued could impose significant restrictions on our operations. To the extent that we are required to obtain additional capital through equity and/or debt financings, loans or collaborative arrangements with corporate partner, we may not be available to us on favorable terms, if at all. Our failure to raise additional funds in the future may delay the development of defibrotide. The development of defibrotide has required a commitment of substantial funds and we may need to commit a substantial amount of additional funds in order to obtain regulatory approval to market and commercialize defibrotide. Our future capital requirements are dependent upon many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: · the successful and continued development of defibrotide in preclinical and clinical testing in existing and any required future clinical trials; · the costs associated with protecting and expanding our patent and other intellectual property rights; · future payments, if any, received or made under existing or possible future collaborative arrangements; · the costs associated with building a future commercial infrastructure; · the costs associated with implementing any upgrades to our manufacturing facility as required by the FDA, EMA, or other regulatory body; · the timing and cost to develop and obtain regulatory approvals to market defibrotide; · success of our named-patient and cost recovery programs; · market acceptance of defibrotide; and · the overall condition of the financial markets. We cannot assure you that funds will be available to us in the future on favorable terms, if at all. If adequate funds are not available to us on terms that we find acceptable, or at all, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate research and development efforts on defibrotide. We may also be forced to curtail, cease or restructure our operations, obtain funds by entering into arrangements with collaborators on unattractive terms or relinquish rights to defibrotide that we would not otherwise relinquish in order to continue independent operations. 5 While we have started to generate limited revenues from sales of defibrotide, we have had significant losses to date and we do not know whether we will ever generate significant revenues. We have generated net losses since our inception. While we have generated revenues through commercial sales of our active pharmaceutical ingredients and, recently, through sales of defibrotide on a pre-approval basis via our named-patient and cost recovery programs, we may revert to incurring significant losses, particularly if we are required to perform additional clinical trials and testing and regulatory compliance activities, or if we unable to continue to distribute defibrotide on a pre-approval basis. If we incur operating losses for longer than we expect and/or we are unable to raise additional capital, we may become insolvent and unable to continue our operations. Our current ability to continue as a going concern is largely dependent on the revenues being generated from the distribution of defibrotide on a pre-approval basis through our named-patient and cost recovery programs. If we fail to generate projected revenues from these compassionate use programs, we may be unable to reduce our expenses quickly enough to compensate for the shortfall, and we may then need to obtain additional capital through equity or debt financings, loans and collaborative agreements with corporate partners, which may not be available to us on favorable terms, if at all. In addition, our fluctuating operating results may fail to meet the expectations of investors, which may cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Even if we are successful in obtaining regulatory approval to market defibrotide, we may have very limited markets and may not generate enough revenues from defibrotide to fund our business. The FDA and EMA have designated defibrotide to treat severe VOD and defibrotide to prevent VOD, as “orphan drugs,” which generally means that fewer than 200,000 people are affected by the disease or condition. In addition, our long-term ability to generate cash from operations is dependent in part on the success of our current strategic partner, Sigma-Tau Pharmaceuticals, Inc., to commercialize defibrotide. We currently do not have any regulatory approvals to sell defibrotide to treat or prevent VOD, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to sell defibrotide to treat or prevent VOD anywhere in the world. Currently, we are required in both the United States and in foreign countries to obtain approval from those countries' regulatory authorities before we can manufacture (or have third-party manufacturers produce), market and sell defibrotide in those countries. The FDA and other United States and foreign regulatory agencies have substantial authority to require additional testing and to delay or withhold registration and marketing approval of our product candidates. Obtaining regulatory approval has been and continues to be increasingly difficult and costly and takes many years, and, once obtained, is costly to maintain. With the occurrence of a number of high profile safety events with certain pharmaceutical products, regulatory authorities, and in particular the FDA, members of Congress, the United States Government Accountability Office (GAO), Congressional committees, private health/science foundations and organizations, medical professionals, including physicians and investigators, and the general public are increasingly concerned about potential or perceived safety issues associated with pharmaceutical and biological products, whether under study for initial approval or already marketed. This increasing concern has produced greater scrutiny, which may lead to fewer treatments being approved by the FDA or other regulatory bodies, as well as more restrictive labeling of a product or a class of products for safety reasons, potentially including a boxed warning or additional limitations on the use of products, pharmacovigilance programs for approved products or requirement of risk management activities related to the promotion and sale of a product. While we have completed two clinical trials for defibrotide to treat and prevent VOD, the data obtained from these trials may not be sufficient to obtain regulatory approval and we may be required to conduct additional clinical trials. We do not currently have the funds to run an additional clinical trial and we would likely need to obtain additional capital through equity or debt financings, loans and collaborative agreements with corporate partners, which may not be available to us on favorable terms, if at all. As a result, we may not be able to commercialize defibrotide for sale anywhere in the world. If we were unable to market and sell our product candidates, our business and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected and we may be unable to continue as a going concern. 6 The FDA and other regulatory authorities may require us to conduct other clinical trials of defibrotide to treat severe VOD or prevent VOD, which may delay or prevent approval and commercialization of our product candidate. On December 7, 2009, final clinical trial results for our Phase III clinical trial of defibrotide to treat severe VOD and our Phase II/III pediatric prevention trial in Europe to prevent VOD were presented at the American Society of Hematology Conference in New Orleans. While data from these trials are encouraging, we may have to conduct a new clinical trial for defibrotide to treat VOD using a concurrent control group of untreated patients before obtaining regulatory approval in the U.S. or Europe for either the treatment or prevention indications. We currently do not, and we may never, have enough capital to commence and complete a new clinical trial of defibrotide to treat VOD. In addition, even if we are able to commence a new clinical trial, one or more clinical centers where the clinical trial is to be conducted may not be willing to conduct such a clinical trial on the basis that it is unethical to refuse treatment to patients when the treatment being investigated could potentially save their lives. The committee of clinical investigators who sponsored a Phase II/III clinical trial of defibrotide to treat VOD in Europe conducted by Consorzio Mario Negri Sud, which had a concurrent control group of untreated patients, cancelled the trial in October 2005 due to a lack of patient enrollment. We believe that patients were reluctant to enroll in the clinical trial due to the possibility of being placed into the control group and not receiving treatment. Therefore, we may never be able to obtain regulatory approval of defibrotide to treat VOD. We may be required to suspend or discontinue any future clinical trials, if necessary, due to adverse events or other safety issues that could preclude approval of defibrotide and negatively affect our business model and stock price. If we are required to conduct any future clinical trials for defibrotide, the trials may be suspended at any time for a number of safety-related reasons. For example, we may voluntarily suspend or terminate such clinical trials if, at any time, we believe that defibrotide presents an unacceptable risk to the clinical trial patients. In addition, institutional review boards or regulatory agencies may order the temporary or permanent discontinuation of our clinical trials at any time if they believe that the clinical trials are not being conducted in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements, including if they present an unacceptable safety risk to patients. Administering any product candidate to humans may produce undesirable side effects. VOD is a condition associated with high dose chemotherapy and stem cell transplantation. Adverse events involving vascular disorders, coagulation and potentially life-threatening bleeding have been reported in VOD patients treated with defibrotide, which could potentially be related to the defibrotide therapy. Hypotension has been reported in patients participating in clinical trials of defibrotide to treat severe VOD, which may also be related to the drug. Also, we discontinued a 69-patient Phase I/II clinical trial of defibrotide to prevent deep vein thrombosis after hip surgery in Denmark in 2002, when three patients experienced hypotension after receiving the defibrotide intravenously. That trial was discontinued due to the hypotension and because defibrotide can also be administered orally to prevent deep vein thrombosis. These adverse events reports will be weighed by the FDA and other regulatory authorities in determining whether defibrotide will, from a risk-benefit perspective, be considered safe and effective to treat severe VOD, to prevent VOD, and to prevent deep vein thrombosis. It is possible that new adverse events or safety issues will emerge from future data, which could impact conclusions relating to the safety of defibrotide. Any complications associated with the use of defibrotide would severely harm our business operations. Product liability and other claims arising in connection with the testing our product candidates in human clinical trials may reduce demand for our products or result in substantial damages. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to defibrotide and the testing of defibrotide in human clinical trials and distribution through our named-patient and cost recovery programs. An individual may bring a product liability claim against us if defibrotide causes, or merely appears to have caused, an injury. These types of product liability claims may result in: · decreased demand for defibrotide; · injury to our reputation; · withdrawal of clinical trial volunteers; · related litigation costs; and · substantial monetary awards to plaintiffs. Although we currently maintain product liability insurance, we may not have sufficient insurance coverage, and we may not be able to obtain sufficient coverage at a reasonable cost. Our inability to obtain product liability insurance at an acceptable cost or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of any products that we or our collaborators develop, including defibrotide. If we are successfully sued for any injury caused by our products or processes, then our liability could exceed our product liability insurance coverage and our total assets. 7 Defibrotide could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market and we may be subject to penalties if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements, if and when defibrotide is approved. Any product for which we obtain marketing approval, together with the manufacturing processes, post-approval commitments, and advertising and promotional activities for such product, will be subject to continued regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with defibrotide or its manufacture, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in: · restrictions on defibrotide or manufacturing processes; · withdrawal of defibrotide from the market; · voluntary or mandatory recalls; · fines; · suspension of regulatory approvals; · product seizures; or · injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. If we are slow to adapt, or unable to adapt, to changes in existing regulatory requirements or adoption of new regulatory requirements or policies, we may lose marketing approval for defibrotide when and if defibrotide is approved. Our manufacturing facility and the manufacturing facility of Patheon S.p.A., with whom we have contracted to fill and finish defibrotide, are subject to continuing regulation by Italian authorities and are subject to inspection and regulation by the FDA and EMA. These authorities could force us to stop manufacturing our products if they determine that we or Patheon are not complying with applicable regulations or require us to complete further costly alterations to our facilities. We manufacture certain active pharmaceutical ingredients at our manufacturing facility in Italy. In addition, we have hired Patheon S.p.A. to process defibrotide into the finished drug at Patheon’s manufacturing facility. These facilities are subject to continuing regulation by the Italian Health Authority and other Italian regulatory authorities with respect to manufacturing defibrotide. The facilities are also subject to inspection and regulation by the FDA and EMA with respect to manufacturing our product candidates for investigational use. Also, part of the process for obtaining approval from the FDA and EMA for defibrotide is approval by those authorities of these manufacturing facilities in compliance with current good manufacturing practices. After receiving initial approval, if any, the FDA or EMA will continue to inspect our manufacturing facilities, including inspecting them unannounced, to confirm whether we and Patheon are complying with good manufacturing practices. These regulators may require us to stop manufacturing our products and may deny us approval to manufacture our product candidates if they determine that we or Patheon are not in compliance with applicable regulations. In addition, these regulators may require us to complete costly alterations to our facilities. We use hazardous materials in our manufacturing facility, and any claims relating to the improper handling, storage, release or disposal of these materials could be time-consuming and expensive. Our manufacturing of active pharmaceutical ingredients involves the controlled storage, use and disposal of chemicals and solvents. We are subject to laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture and storage and handling and disposal of materials and waste products. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these hazardous materials comply with the standards prescribed by these laws and regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury from hazardous materials. If an accident occurs, an injured party could seek to hold us liable for any damages that result and any liability could exceed the limits or fall outside the coverage of our insurance. We may not be able to maintain insurance on acceptable terms, or at all. We may incur significant costs to comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations. We expect to rely upon a sole processor, Patheon S.p.A., to fill and finish defibrotide into marketable formulations, and we may not be able to quickly replace Patheon if it is unable to perform these services. If Patheon does not or is not able to perform these services for any reason, it may take us time to find a replacement processor. Such a delay could potentially cause us to breach contractual obligations into which we may enter, violate local laws requiring us to deliver the product to those in need, and impact our revenues. 8 We may have difficulty obtaining raw material for defibrotide. Defibrotide is based on pig intestines. If our current sources of pig intestines encounter safety or other issues that impact their ability to supply the pig intestines to us, as needed, we may not be able to find alternative suppliers in a timely fashion. In that case, we would have to slow or cease our manufacture of defibrotide. If our third-party clinical trial vendors fail to comply with strict regulations, the clinical trials for defibrotide may be delayed or unsuccessful. We do not have the personnel capacity to conduct or manage all of the clinical trials that may be necessary for the development of defibrotide. We have relied on third parties to assist us in managing, monitoring and conducting our clinical trials. In addition, we have entered into an agreement with MDS Pharma Services (U.S.) Inc. (now INC Research Inc.) to perform clinical research services in connection with clinical trials conducted in the United States and agreements with KKS-UKT, GmbH (now CenTrial, GmbH) and MDS Pharma Services S.p.A. (now Inc Research S.r.l.) to provide such services for our clinical trials in Europe. If these third parties fail to comply with applicable regulations or if they fail to adequately fulfill their obligations under the terms of our agreements with them, we may not be able to enter into alternative arrangements without undue delay or additional expenditures and, as a result, the clinical trials for defibrotide may be delayed or unsuccessful. Furthermore, it is expected that the FDA will inspect some or all of the clinical sites participating in our clinical trials, or the sites of our third party vendors, to determine whether our clinical trials are being conducted in accordance with good clinical practice. If the FDA determines that our third-party vendors, or the sites themselves, are not in compliance with applicable regulations, we may be required to delay, repeat or terminate the clinical trials. Any delay, repetition or termination of our clinical trials could materially harm our business. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel and key relationships, we may be unable to successfully develop and commercialize defibrotide or otherwise manage our business effectively. We are highly dependent on our senior management, whose services are critical to the successful implementation of research and development and manufacturing and regulatory strategies, and our ability to maintain relationships with qualified researchers. If we lose the services of one or more of the members of our senior management or other key researchers, our ability to successfully commercialize defibrotide or to otherwise manage our business effectively could be seriously harmed. Replacing key employees may be difficult and may take an extended period of time because of the limited number of individuals in our industry with the breadth of specific skills and experience required to develop, gain regulatory approval of and commercialize defibrotide. Competition to hire from this limited pool is intense, and we may be unable to hire, train, retain or motivate these additional key personnel, if needed. Moreover, we may need to hire additional personnel and add corporate functions that we currently do not have. To effectively manage our operations and growth, we will be required to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and reporting system and procedures, or to contract with third parties to provide these capabilities for us. We are currently dependent on third parties to market and distribute defibrotide in finished dosage form, and we may continue to be dependent on third parties to market and distribute defibrotide. Our internal ability to handle the marketing and distribution functions for defibrotide is limited. Our long-term strategy is to either develop marketing and distribution capacities internally or enter into alliances with third parties to assist in the marketing and distribution of defibrotide. We have entered into an agreement with Sigma-Tau Pharmaceuticals, Inc. to market defibrotide to treat and prevent VOD in North America, Central America and South America and we may need to develop these capabilities internally or enter into similar agreements to market and distribute defibrotide to prevent VOD outside the Americas. We face, and will continue to face, intense competition with other companies over collaborative arrangements with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, relationships with academic and research institutions, attracting investigators and sites capable of conducting our clinical trials, and licenses of proprietary technology. Moreover, these arrangements are complex to negotiate and time-consuming to document. Our future profitability will depend in large part on our ability to enter into effective marketing agreements and our product revenues will depend on those marketers’ efforts, which may not be successful. All of our manufacturing capability is located in one facility that is vulnerable to natural disasters, telecommunication and information system failures, terrorism and similar problems, and we are not insured against losses that may be caused by any of these occurrences or events. We conduct all of our manufacturing operations in a single facility located in Villa Guardia, near Como, Italy. This facility could be damaged by fire, flood, earthquake, power loss, telecommunication and information system failure, terrorism or a similar event. Our insurance covers damages to the facility, including the buildings, machinery, electronic equipment and goods, of up to approximately €15 million, but does not cover damages caused by any of the events listed above, including terrorism and some types of flooding. Although we believe that our insurance coverage is adequate for our current and proposed operations, there can be no guarantee that it will adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur. We are not insured against business interruption and we do not have a replacement manufacturing facility readily available. 9 We have sold Prociclide and Noravid (two formulations of defibrotide) in Italy to treat vascular disease with risk of thrombosis, which may affect the pricing of defibrotide in Europe for the prevention or treatment of VOD. Until December 31, 2008, through a distribution agreement with Crinos S.p.A., we sold Prociclide and Noravid (both forms of defibrotide) in Italy to treat vascular disease with risk of thrombosis. While we have stopped selling Prociclide and Noravid for this treatment in Italy, if defibrotide is approved for sale in Europe to treat and/or prevent VOD , we may need to obtain regulatory approval of the price we charge for these uses of defibrotide. The regulators may impose an artificially low cap on defibrotide based on the relatively low price-point of Prociclide and Noravid previously sold in Italy for the treatment of vascular disease with risk of thrombosis. Sirton, our affiliate, owes us a receivable that we may not be able to collect. At December 31, 2010, Sirton owed us a receivable of €1.05 million and we owed Sirton a payable of €0.31 million. Sirton has been unable to make timely payments on the outstanding receivables. We may never be able to collect the net receivable due to us from Sirton. In 2010, Sirton went into liquidation and, on June 28, 2010, Sirton was admitted by the Court of Como to a composition with creditors proceedings (“concordato preventivo”) which was published on July 1, 2010. The composition with creditors was approved on February 3, 2011. At that time, a proposal for the acquisition of Sirton’s assets was filed by a third party and approved by the Court of Como. A liquidator has been appointed, although a decision on the allocation of the proceeds from sale of Sirton’s assets for distribution to the creditors has not yet been finalized. We understand that the liquidator may propose to satisfy the amounts due to secured creditors in full and pay the unsecured creditors a pro-rata share of 18.26% of the amounts due from the remaining assets. We still rely upon Sirton Pharmaceuticals S.p.A. for various services, and we may not be able to quickly replace these services if it becomes bankrupt or otherwise unavailable. Historically, FinSirton and Sirton provided us with a number of business services such as purchasing, logistics, quality assurance, quality control, analytical assistance for research and development, and regulatory services, as well as office space, personnel, administrative services, information technology systems and accounting services. Although we have substantially reduced the functions and activities provided by FinSirton and Sirton, we still depend on Sirton for certain infrastructure costs and quality control. These service agreements have recurring one-year terms that may be terminated by either party upon written notice to the other party at least one month prior to the expiration of the term. We are renegotiating those agreements with Sirton’s new owner. If Sirton were to become bankrupt or otherwise cease providing these services, we may not be able to replace these services in a timely manner. Such a delay could impact revenue being generated from our compassionate use programs. Our industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid technological changes. As a result, we may be unable to compete successfully or to develop innovative products, which could harm our business. Our industry is highly competitive and subject to significant and rapid technological change as researchers learn more about diseases and develop new technologies and treatments. Incidence of VOD may decrease with new technologies and conditioning regimens, which will negatively impact our sales opportunities. While we are unaware of any other products or product candidates that treat or prevent VOD, we believe that other companies have products or are currently developing products to treat some of the same disorders and diseases that defibrotide is designed to treat. These companies include Genzyme Corp., Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Eisai Co., Ltd., and Celgene Corp. Many of these competitors have substantially greater research and development capabilities and experience, and greater manufacturing, marketing and financial resources than we have. In addition, these companies’ products and product candidates are in more advanced stages of development than we are or have been approved for sale by the FDA and other regulatory agencies. As a result, these companies may be able to develop their product candidates and establish their product in the market before we can. Their products may also prove to be more effective, safer or less costly than defibrotide, which could hurt our ability to realize any significant revenues. In May 2003, the FDA designated defibrotide as an orphan drug to treat severe VOD, and in January 2007, the FDA designated defibrotide as an orphan drug to prevent VOD. If the FDA approves the New Drug Applications for these uses of defibrotide that we intend to file, before approving a New Drug Application filed by anyone else, the orphan drug status will grant us limited market exclusivity for seven years from the date of the FDA’s approval of our New Drug Application. However, a marketing authorization may be granted to another applicant for the same product if we give our consent to such authorization, we are unable to supply sufficient quantities of defibrotide, or if the second applicant can establish in its application that its product is safer, more effective or otherwise clinically superior to our product. In that case, our product would not have market exclusivity. There is no guarantee that the FDA will approve our New Drug Application before approving another company’s product for these uses, although we are not aware of any other company researching defibrotide for these uses at this time. In such a case, however, the first product approved would have market exclusivity and our products would not be eligible for approval until that exclusivity period expires. 10 In July 2004, EMA designated defibrotide as an orphan medicinal product to both treat and prevent VOD. If the European regulators grant us a marketing authorization for those uses of defibrotide, we will have limited market exclusivity for those uses for ten years following the date of the approval. However, a marketing authorization may be granted to another applicant for the same product if we consent to such authorization, we are unable to supply sufficient quantities of defibrotide, or the second applicant can establish in its application that its product is safer, more effective or otherwise clinically superior to our product. In that case, our product would not have market exclusivity. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, our ability to compete could be impaired. Our long-term success largely depends on our ability to create and market competitive products and to protect those creations. Our pending patent applications, or those applications that we may file in the future, may not be granted. Until a patent is issued, the claims covered by the patent may be narrowed or removed entirely and, therefore, we may not obtain adequate patent protection. As a result, we may face unanticipated competition, or conclude that the risk of bringing products to the market is too great, thus adversely affecting our operating results. Because of the extensive time required to develop, test and complete a regulatory review of a product candidate, it is possible that our relevant patent rights may expire before defibrotide can be approved for sale and commercialized, or within a short time after commercialization. We have been issued a patent in the U.S. and several other countries which covers the method for determining the biological activity of defibrotide. The patent expires in 2022 in most countries. This patent is important because the analytical release of a biological product like defibrotide is a key step in confirming the purity and biological activity of the final product. There may not be an opportunity to extend this patent and thereby extend exclusivity related to FDA and EMA, in which case we could face increased competition for defibrotide. Patent expiration could adversely affect our ability to protect future product development and, consequently, our operating results and financial position. In addition, generic innovators may be able to circumvent this patent and design a novel analytical method for determining the biological activity of defibrotide. In this case, a generic defibrotide could potentially be on the market once the relevant protections offered by our orphan designations end. We also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, particularly when we patent protection is inappropriate or unattainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. While we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees, consultants, contractors, outside scientific collaborators and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. To enforce a claim against a third party for illegally obtaining and using our trade secrets is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. We intend to eventually license or sell our products in China, South Korea and other countries which do not have the same level of intellectual property rights and protections that exist in the United States and Europe. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. Risks Related to Ownership of the American Depositary Shares Our ADSs have generally had low trading volume, and its public trading price has been volatile. The market price of our common stock has been highly volatile. Between our initial public offering on June 21, 2005 and December 31, 2010, the closing price of our American Depositary Shares, or ADSs, has fluctuated between $.33 and $24.40 per share, with an average daily trading volume for the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2010 of 109,864 ADSs. The market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations for many reasons, some of which may be unrelated to our operating performance. In addition to general market volatility, other factors that may have a significant adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs include: · public announcements of decisions made by regulators in both the United States and abroad; · public announcements of improvements, new commercial products, failures of products, or progress toward commercialization by our competitors or peers; · influence of and control by our commercial partner and significant shareholder, Sigma-Tau Finanziaria S.p.A.; · developments concerning proprietary rights, including patent and litigation matters; · publicity regarding actual or potential results with respect to product candidates under development by us or by our competitors; 11 · regulatory developments; and · quarterly fluctuation in our revenues and financial results. We may not remain listed on the Nasdaq Global Market. From the date of our public offering through May 2006, our ADSs were listed on the American Stock Exchange. Since May 2006, our ADSs have been listed on the Nasdaq Global Market. The Nasdaq Global Market sets forth various requirements that must be met in order for our ADSs to continue to be listed on the Nasdaq Global Market. We would be in violation of the continued listing requirements if: · the closing bid price of our ADSs drops below $1.00 for a period of 30 consecutive trading days; · our stockholders’ equity falls below $10 million; or · we fail to maintain a market value for publicly held securities of at least $5 million for 30 consecutive trading days. In the event of any such violation, our ADSs could be delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market. The delisting of our ADSs could have negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by suppliers and employees, the loss of institutional investor interest, and fewer business development opportunities. As of December 31, 2010, our stockholders’ equity was $17.2 million (€12.9 million). If we fail to meet the stockholders’ equity or fail to meet the minimum bid price and minimum market value requirements, we may be delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market. Our largest shareholders exercise significant control over us, which may make it more difficult for you to elect or replace directors or management and approve or reject mergers and other important corporate events, including obtaining potential financing. Our largest shareholder, FinSirton S.p.A., owned approximately 24% of our outstanding ordinary shares at December 31, 2010. Dr. Laura Ferro, our former Chief Executive Officer and President and a current member of our board of directors, together with members of her family, may be deemed to control FinSirton. In addition, Sigma-Tau Finanziaria S.p.A., along with its affiliates, owned approximately 18% of our outstanding ordinary shares at December 31, 2010. Marco Codella, who is the Chief Financial Officer of Sigma-Tau Finanziaria, serves as a member of our board of directors. Moreover, we have licensed our rights in defibrotide to treat and prevent VOD to Sigma-Tau Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Sigma-Tau Finanziaria. Both FinSirton and Sigma-Tau Finanziaria may substantially control the outcome of all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other important corporate events. They may exercise this ability in a manner that advances their best interests, and not necessarily your best interest. Also, the concentration of our beneficial ownership may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control, or may discourage bids for the ADSs or our ordinary shares at a premium over the market price of the ADSs. The significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price of the ADSs due to investors’ perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. As discussed in our risk factor entitled “Our shareholders can prevent us from executing a financing by alleging that our board of directors acted with serious irregularities when approving such financing, because the terms of such financing could harm our company,” each of FinSirton and Sigma-Tau Finanziaria own enough of our ordinary shares to bring legal action against our board of directors and to possibly prevent us from completing an important corporate event, such as a financing. In addition, under Italian law, directors are not required to recuse themselves from participation in matters that present a conflict of interest. They are merely required to declare their conflict of interest. Accordingly, directors that are affiliated with our shareholders may be present for certain discussions that involve or impact the shareholders to which such directors are affiliated. If a significant number of ADSs are sold into the market, the market price of the ADSs could significantly decline, even if our business is doing well. Our outstanding ordinary shares, ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of warrants and ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of options are not subject to lock-up agreements. We have filed registration statements for the resale of most of our outstanding ordinary shares and related ADSs and all of our ordinary shares and related ADSs issuable upon exercise of our outstanding warrants and options. Such registration and ultimate sale of the securities in the markets may adversely affect the market for the ADSs. 12 You may not have the same voting rights as the holders of our ordinary shares and may not receive voting materials in time to be able to exercise your right to vote. Except as described in this annual report and in the deposit agreement for the ADSs with our depositary, The Bank of New York Mellon, holders of the ADSs will not be able to exercise voting rights attaching to the ordinary shares evidenced by the ADSs on an individual basis. Holders of the ADSs will only have the right to instruct the depositary, as the holders’ representative, to exercise these voting rights. You may not receive voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote, and it is possible that you, or persons who hold ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote. You may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings as a result. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. Under our deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary will not offer those rights to ADS holders unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to ADS holders are either registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. In addition, we may not be able to take advantage of any exemptions from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, holders of our ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings as a result. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs represented by the ADRs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or, from time to time when it deems expedient, in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so under any requirement of law, any government or governmental body, any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. Risks Relating to Being an Italian Corporation The process of seeking to raise additional funds is cumbersome, subject to the verification of an Italian notary public in compliance with our bylaws and applicable law, and may require prior approval of our shareholders at an extraordinary shareholders’ meeting. We are incorporated under the laws of the Republic of Italy. The principal laws and regulations that apply to our operations, those of Italy and the European Union, are different from those of the United States. With some exceptions, in order to issue new equity or debt securities convertible into equity we must increase our authorized capital. In order to do so, our board of directors must meet and resolve to recommend that our shareholders approve an amendment to our bylaws increasing our capital. The holders of the majority of our outstanding shares must then approve that amendment at an extraordinary shareholders’ meeting duly called. These meetings take time to call and it is very difficult to get a majority of the holders of all outstanding shares to vote in favor of the proposed resolution. In addition, an Italian notary public must verify that the capital increase is in compliance with our bylaws and with applicable Italian law. Further, under Italian law, our existing shareholders and any holders of convertible securities have preemptive rights (except in specific cases) to acquire any such shares pro-rated on their percentage interest in our company, and on the same terms as approved for such capital increase. Alternatively, our shareholders can delegate the power to increase our capital to the board of directors, but the board’s right to exercise such power, if delegated, will expire after five years. If the board does not approve a capital increase by the end of those five years, our board and shareholders would need to meet again to re-delegate this authority. With respect to shareholders’ resolutions approving a capital increase, Italian law provides that, in the event of the absence of minutes of the meeting, impossibility or illegality of the resolution, any interested person may, for a period of 180 days following the filing of the shareholders’ resolution with the competent Register of Companies, challenge such resolution. If a shareholders’ meeting was not called to approve the capital increase, the relevant resolution should be considered invalid and, any interested person may challenge the capital increase for a period of 90 days following the approval of the financial statements referring to the year during which the shareholders’ resolution has been, also partially, executed. In addition, once our shareholders authorize a capital increase, all those authorized shares that have been subscribed need to be entirely paid-up before the shareholders may authorize a new capital increase. These restrictions could limit our ability to issue new equity or convertible debt securities on a timely basis. 13 Our shareholders can prevent us from executing a financing by alleging that our board of directors acted with serious irregularities when approving such financing, because the terms of such financing could harm our company. On August 12, 2008, Sigma-Tau Finanziaria S.p.A., together with one of its affiliates, filed a claim in the Court of Como claiming that the members of our board of directors acted with serious irregularities, in violation of their duties as directors, in approving a potential financing because such financing was potentially harmful to the company. On August 18, 2008, the Court of Como issued a temporary order preventing us from moving forward with the potential financing. While this claim was later dismissed for lack of damages, the claim did, nonetheless, prevent the directors from implementing the financing. Any shareholder or group of shareholders constituting at least 10% of our outstanding ordinary shares could bring a similar action on a future board resolution regarding a financing or other important corporate action, and an Italian court could prevent the transaction from moving forward by issuing an order to that effect. Italian law restricts the amount of debt securities that we may issue relative to our equity. Under Italian law, we may issue debt securities in an amount not to exceed twice the sum of our capital, our legal reserve and any other disposable reserves appearing on our latest Italian GAAP balance sheet approved by our shareholders. The legal reserve is a reserve to which we allocate 5% of our Italian GAAP net income each year until it equals at least 20% of our capital. One of the other reserves that we maintain on our balance sheet is a “share premium reserve,” meaning amounts paid for our ordinary shares in excess of the amount of such ordinary shares that is allocated to the capital. At December 31, 2010, the sum of our capital, our legal reserves and other reserves on our unaudited Italian GAAP balance sheet was € 31.7 million. If we issue debt securities in the future, until such debt securities are repaid in full, we may not voluntarily reduce our capital or allocate our reserves (such as by declaring dividends) if it results in the aggregate of the capital and reserves being less than half of the outstanding amount of the debt. If our equity is reduced by losses or otherwise such that the amount of the outstanding debt securities is more than twice the amount of our equity, some legal scholars are of the opinion that the ratio must be restored through a recapitalization of our company. If our equity is reduced, we could recapitalize by issuing new shares or having our shareholders contribute additional capital to us, although there can be no assurance that we would be able to find purchasers of new shares or that any of our current shareholders would be willing to contribute additional capital. If we suffer losses that reduce our capital to less than €120 thousand, we would need to recapitalize, change our form of entity or be liquidated. Italian law requires us to reduce our shareholders’ equity and, in particular, our capital, to reflect on-going losses, in certain cases of losses exceeding 1/3 of the capital of the Company. We are also required to maintain a minimum capital of €120 thousand. At December 31, 2010, our unaudited Italian GAAP capital was approximately €14.9 million. If we suffer losses from operations that reduce our capital to less than €120 thousand, then we must either increase our capital (which we could do by issuing new shares or having our shareholders contribute additional capital to our company) to at least €120 thousand or convert the form of our company into an S.r.l., which has a lower capital requirement of €10 thousand. If we d not take these steps, our company could be liquidated. We apply our operational losses against our legal reserves and capital. If our capital is reduced more than one-third as a result of losses, our board of directors must call a shareholders’ meeting as soon as possible. The shareholders should take appropriate measures, which may include, inter alia, reducing the legal reserves and capital by the amount of the remaining losses, or carrying the losses forward for up to one year. If the shareholders vote to carry the losses forward up to one year, and the losses are still more than one-third of the amount of the capital at the end of the year, then we must reduce our capital by the amount of the losses. Due to the differences between Italian and U.S. law, the depositary (acting as a shareholder on your behalf) may have fewer shareholder rights than you would have as a shareholder of a U.S. company. We are incorporated under the laws of the Republic of Italy. As a result, the rights and obligations of our shareholders are governed by Italian law and our bylaws, and are in some ways different from those that apply to U.S. corporations. Some of these differences may result in the depositary (on your behalf) having fewer shareholder rights than you would have as a shareholder of a U.S. corporation. We have presented a detailed comparison of the Italian laws applicable to our company versus Delaware law in “Item 10, Additional Information, Comparison of Italian and Delaware Corporate Law.” We compared the Italian laws applicable to our company against Delaware law because Delaware is the most common state of incorporation for U.S. public companies. Italian labor laws could impair our flexibility to restructure our business. In Italy, our employees are protected by various laws which afford them consultation rights with respect to specific matters regarding their employers’ business and operations, including the downsizing or closure of facilities and employee terminations. In particular: (i) Law no. 604/1966, regulates the individual dismissals; (ii) Law no. 223/1991, concerns the collective dismissal procedure; (iii) Law no. 428/1990 as amended by legislative decree no. 18/2001, provides for the information and consultation procedure in case of transfer of the undertaking or part thereof and (iv) Legislative decree no. 25/2007, introduces a general right to information and consultation for employees. These laws and the collective bargaining agreements to which we are subject could impair our flexibility if we need to restructure our business. 14 FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This annual report may contain forward-looking statements that involve substantial risks and uncertainties regarding future events or our future performance. When used in this annual report, the words “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “may,” “intent,” “continue,” “will,” “plan,” “intend,” and “expect” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. You should read statements that contain these words carefully because they discuss our future expectations, contain projections of our future results of operations or of our financial condition or state other “forward-looking” information. We believe that it is important to communicate our future expectations to our investors. Although we believe that our expectations reflected in any forward-looking statements are reasonable, these expectations may not be achieved. The factors listed in the section captioned “Risk Factors,” as well as any cautionary language included in this annual report or incorporated by reference, provide examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations we describe in our forward-looking statements. Before you invest in our ordinary shares or ADSs, you should be aware that the occurrence of the events described in the “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this annual report could have a material adverse effect on our business, performance, operating results and financial condition. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements set forth in this annual report. Except as required by federal securities laws, we are under no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. You should rely only on the information contained in this annual report. We have not authorized anyone to provide you with information different from that contained in this annual report. The information contained in this annual report is accurate only as of the date of this annual report. 