Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below as well as the other information contained in this annual report. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business has been, and may continue to be, adversely impacted by the current recession affecting the U.S. economy. Our business is affected by a number of economic factors, including the level of economic activity in the markets in which we operate. Throughout 2008, the decline in economic activity in the United States affected, and may in the future materially affect, our business, financial condition and results of operation. Sales in the residential and commercial new construction market correlate closely to the number of new homes and buildings that are built, which in turn is influenced by factors such as interest rates, inflation, consumers’ spending habits, employment rates and other macroeconomic factors over which we have no control. Declining economic activity as a result of these factors resulted in a reduction in new construction and replacement purchases, which has, and may continue to, affect our sales volume and profitability. The recession affecting the U.S. economy may materially adversely affect our business. The volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets and adverse changes in the U.S. and global economy may negatively impact our ability to access financing and/or impede our internal growth. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption at unprecedented levels. Significant declines in the housing market during the prior year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs have caused many financial institutions to seek government assistance, additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Many lenders and institutional investors have reduced, and in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions. These disruptions in the financial markets may not only impact our liquidity but that of our suppliers, our independent distributors and our customers. If these market disruptions continue, our financial position, results of operation and cash flows could be adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Changes in weather patterns and seasonal fluctuations may adversely affect our operating results. Weather fluctuations may adversely affect our operating results and our ability to maintain our sales volume. Our operations may be adversely affected by unseasonably warm weather in the months of November to February and unseasonably cool weather in the months of May to August, which has the effect of diminishing customer demand for heating, ventilation and air conditioning systems and decreasing our sales volumes. Many of our operating expenses are fixed and cannot be reduced during periods of decreased demand for our products. Accordingly, our results of operations will be negatively impacted in quarters with lower sales due to such weather fluctuations. In addition, our sales volumes and operating results in certain regions can be negatively impacted during inclement weather conditions in these regions. In addition, our quarterly results may vary significantly. Although there is demand for our products throughout the year, in each of the past three years approximately 57% to 60% of our total sales occurred in the second and third quarters of the fiscal year. Our peak production also typically occurs in the second and the third quarters of the fiscal year. Therefore, quarterly comparisons of our sales and operating results should not be relied on as an indication of future performance, and the results of any quarterly period may not be indicative of expected results for a full year. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our senior secured credit facilities and our 2016 notes. We now have and will continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness for the foreseeable future. This indebtedness exposes us to risks that some of our primary competitors, with less outstanding indebtedness, do not face. On December 31, 2008, we had $1,372.0 million (of which $500.0 million consists of our 13.50%/14.00% senior subordinated notes due 2016, our 2016 notes, and the balance consists of indebtedness under our senior secured credit facilities), excluding approximately $33.5 million of letters of credit and up to $69.1 million of additional indebtedness that may be borrowed under the terms and conditions of our revolving credit agreement. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to our business, including: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our 2016 notes; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby limiting cash flow available to fund our working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate requirements; • exposing us to the risk of interest rate increases on our variable rate borrowings, including borrowings under our new senior secured credit facilities; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness; and • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, other general corporate requirements and acquisitions. Our cash interest expense in 2008 related to our 2016 notes, revolving credit agreement and term loan credit agreement was $118.7 million. At December 31, 2008, we had $500.0 million of outstanding 13.5%/14% senior subordinated notes due 2016, the 2016 notes, and owed $772.0 million and $100.0 million under our term loan credit agreement and revolving credit agreement, respectively. The term loan credit agreement has an interest rate of LIBOR (with a minimum of 3.25%) or Prime, plus applicable margin, based on certain leverage ratios, which was 4.25% and totaled 7.71% as of December 31, 2008. The revolving credit agreement has an interest rate of LIBOR or Prime, plus applicable margin, which totaled 4.25% as of December 31, 2008. An increase of 0.125% in the floating rates would have increased our annual interest expense by approximately $1.1 million in 2008. 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. Our senior secured credit facilities and the indenture governing our 2016 notes contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our and certain of our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares; • pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments; • make certain investments; • sell or transfer assets; • create liens; • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and • enter into certain transactions with our affiliates. In addition, under our revolving credit agreement, when (and for as long as) the combined availability under our revolving credit agreement is less than a specified amount for a certain period of time, or if a payment or bankruptcy event of default has occurred and is continuing, funds deposited into any of our depository accounts will be transferred on a daily basis into a blocked account with the administrative agent and applied to prepay loans under the revolving credit agreement and to cash collateralize letters of credit issued thereunder. Under our senior secured credit facilities, we will also be required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios. Our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and there can be no assurance that we will meet those ratios. The failure to comply with any of these covenants would cause a default under our debt instruments. A default, if not waived, could result in acceleration of the outstanding indebtedness under such debt instruments, in which case such indebtedness would become immediately due and payable. In addition, a default or acceleration of indebtedness under our 2016 notes or our senior secured credit facilities could result in a default or acceleration of other indebtedness we may incur with cross-default or cross-acceleration provisions. If any default occurs, we may not be able to pay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if new financing is available, it may not be available on terms that are acceptable to us. Complying with these covenants may cause us to take actions that we otherwise would not take or not take actions that we otherwise would take. Despite current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial leverage. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. For example, as of December 31, 2008, we had an additional $69.1 million of undrawn commitments under the terms and conditions of our revolving credit agreement that, if drawn, would further increase our leverage. Under the terms of the indenture governing our 2016 notes, we and our subsidiaries are permitted to incur additional indebtedness. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the related risks of compliance with certain ratios and of our ability to service our debt obligations that we and they now face could intensify. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance. This, to a certain extent, is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available to us under our revolving credit agreement in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our debt, including our 2016 notes, or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to meet our debt obligations or fund our other liquidity needs, we may need to restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt, including our 2016 notes, or sell certain of our assets on or before the maturity of our debt. We may not be able to restructure or refinance any of our debt, including our 2016 notes, on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, which could cause us to default on our debt obligations and impair our liquidity. Any refinancing of our indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants that could further restrict our business operations. In addition, if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets or seek additional capital. 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements These alternative measures may not be available to us, may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations, which could result in substantial liquidity problems. Our senior secured credit facilities and the indenture governing our 2016 notes restricts our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from the disposition. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds which we could realize from them and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. A substantial portion of our indebtedness is at a variable rate of interest, which could increase our interest expense in the event interest rates rise. Certain of our indebtedness bears interest at rates that fluctuate with changes in certain prevailing interest rates. A 1% increase or decrease in the overall interest rate would have resulted in approximately a $8.7 million increase or decrease in our interest expense in 2008 on our variable rate indebtedness, respectively. If interest rates increase dramatically, we may be unable to meet our debt service obligations. Any future determination that a significant impairment of the value of our intangible assets or long-lived assets has occurred could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. As a result of the 2008 Acquisition, goodwill and other acquired intangible assets represent a substantial portion of our assets. Goodwill was approximately $1.4 billion and other identifiable intangible assets were $802.3 million as of December 31, 2008. We also have long-lived assets consisting of property and equipment of $177.7 million as of December 31, 2008. We review these assets both on a periodic basis as well as when events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Any future determination that an impairment of the value of our goodwill, unamortized intangible assets or long-lived assets has occurred would require us to write-down the impaired portion of those assets to fair value, which would reduce our assets and stockholders’ equity and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Increased competition and technological changes and advances may reduce our market share and our future sales. The production and sale of HVAC equipment by manufacturers is highly competitive. According to industry sources, the top five domestic manufacturers (including us) represented approximately 80% of the unit sales in the U.S. residential and light commercial HVAC market in 2007. Our four largest competitors in this market are Carrier Corporation (a division of United Technologies Corporation), Trane Inc. (a wholly-owned subsidiary of Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited), Lennox International, Inc. and Rheem Manufacturing Company. Several of our competitors may have greater financial and other resources than we have. A number of factors affect competition in the HVAC industry, including an increasing emphasis on the development of more efficient HVAC products. Existing and future competitive pressures may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, including pricing pressure if our competitors improve their cost structure. In addition, our company-operated distribution centers face competition from independent distributors and dealers owned by our competitors, some of whom may be able to provide their products or services at lower prices than we can. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competition and current and future competitive pressures faced by us may adversely affect our profitability and performance. There are several companies that have recently sought to purchase independent distributors and dealers and consolidate them into large enterprises. These consolidated enterprises may be able to exert pressure on us to reduce prices. Additionally, these new enterprises tend to emphasize their company name, rather than the brand of the manufacturer, in their promotional activities, which could lead to dilution of the importance and value of our brand names. Future price reductions and any brand dilution caused by the consolidation among HVAC distributors and dealers could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Significant fluctuations in the cost of raw materials and components have, and may continue to, reduce our operating margins. In addition, a decline in our relationships with key suppliers may have an adverse effect on our business. Our operations depend on the supply of various raw materials and components, including steel, copper, aluminum, refrigerants, motors and compressors, from domestic and foreign suppliers. We do not enter into long-term supply contracts for many of our raw materials and component requirements. However, our suppliers may 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements discontinue providing products to us at attractive prices, and we may be unable to obtain such products in the future from these or other providers on the scale and within the time frames we require. If a key supplier were unable or unwilling to meet our supply requirements, we could experience supply interruptions and/or cost increases which (to the extent that we are not able to find alternate suppliers or pass these additional costs onto our customers) could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. To the extent any of our suppliers experiences a shortage of components that we purchase, we may not receive shipments of those components and, if we were unable to obtain substitute components on a timely basis, our production would be impaired. For example, in the second quarter of 2004 we experienced supply interruptions for steel, copper and aluminum. Historically, these supply interruptions have resulted in periodic production disruptions and higher transportation costs. Between 2004 and 2008, commodity prices rose significantly to levels well above prices seen in the prior decade. To help address the rise in commodity costs, we implemented price increases in 2006 and 2008 on the majority of our products. Although commodity prices have moderated, a further increase in commodity prices could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may not be able to further increase the price of our products or reduce our costs to offset the higher commodity prices. In addition, our efforts to mitigate rising raw materials costs could adversely affect our results of operations if commodity prices were to unexpectedly decline. We are subject to price risk as it relates to our principal raw materials: copper, aluminum and steel. Cost variability of raw materials can have a material impact on our results of operations. To enhance stability in the cost of major raw material commodities, such as copper and aluminum used in the manufacturing process, we have entered and may continue to enter into commodity derivative arrangements. Maturity dates of the contracts are scheduled to coincide with market purchases of the commodity. Cash proceeds or payments between the derivative counter-party and us at maturity of the contracts are recognized as an adjustment to the cost of the commodity purchased, to the extent the hedge is effective. Charges or credits resulting from ineffective hedges are recognized in income immediately. We generally do not enter commodity hedges extending beyond eighteen months. We have entered into swaps for a portion of our commodity supply which expire by December 31, 2009. A 10% change in the price of commodities hedged would change the fair value of the hedge contracts by approximately $12.9 million and $10.3 million as of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively. We continue to monitor and evaluate the prices of our principal raw materials and may decide to enter into additional hedging contracts in the future. A decline in our relations with our key distributors may adversely affect our business. Our operations also depend upon our ability to maintain our relations with our independent distributors. While we generally enter into contracts with our independent distributors, these contracts typically last for one to two years and can be terminated by either party upon 30 days’ notice. If our key distributors are unwilling to continue to sell our products or if our key distributors merge with or are purchased by a competitor, we could experience a decline in sales. If we are unable to replace such distributors or otherwise replace the resulting loss of sales, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. For the year ended December 31, 2008, approximately 38% of our net sales were made through our independent distributors. Damage or injury caused by our products could result in material liabilities associated with product recalls or reworks. In the event we produce a product that is alleged to contain a design or manufacturing defect, we could be required to incur costs involved to recall or rework that product. In September 2004, we initiated a voluntary corrective action plan, or “CAP,” regarding a discontinued design of certain Amana®, Trane® and American Standard® brand PTAC units manufactured by one of our subsidiaries. A PTAC is a single unit heating and air conditioning system used primarily in hotel and motel rooms, apartments, schools, assisted living facilities and hospitals. Under the CAP, we agreed to provide a new thermal limit switch to commercial and institutional PTAC owners. Installation of these switches will be at the commercial or institutional owners’ expense, except in special and limited circumstances (e.g., financial hardship). Pursuant to the CAP, we agreed to pay the cost of installing the replacement switch for any individual homeowner having a PTAC unit in his/her residence. We have established a reserve relating to the CAP in an amount that we believe is appropriate, which amounted to $2.6 million as of December 31, 2004, the year in which the CAP was implemented. The costs required to recall or rework any defective products could be material, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, our 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements reputation for safety and quality is essential to maintaining our market share. Any recalls or reworks may adversely affect our reputation as a manufacturer of quality, safe products and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may incur material costs as a result of product liability or warranty claims that would negatively affect our profitability. The development, manufacture, sale and use of our products involve a risk of product liability and warranty claims, including personal injury and property damage arising from fire, soot, mold and carbon monoxide. We currently carry insurance and maintain reserves for potential product liability claims. However, our insurance coverage may be inadequate if such claims do arise and any liability not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business. To date, we have been able to obtain insurance in amounts we believe to be appropriate to cover such liability. However, our insurance premiums may increase in the future as a consequence of conditions in the insurance business generally or our situation in particular. Any such increase could result in lower profits or cause the need to reduce our insurance coverage. In addition, a future claim may be brought against us which would have a material adverse effect on us. Any product liability claim may also include the imposition of punitive damages, the award of which, pursuant to certain state laws, may not be covered by insurance. Our product liability insurance policies have limits that if exceeded, may result in material costs that would have an adverse effect on our future profitability. In addition, warranty claims are not covered by our product liability insurance. Any product liability or warranty issues may adversely affect our reputation as a manufacturer of safe, quality products and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our financial results may be adversely impacted by higher than expected tax rates, exposure to additional income tax liabilities and the adoption of new accounting pronouncements regarding income tax accounting. Our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic composition of our earnings and tax regulations governing each region. We are subject to income taxes in multiple jurisdictions within the United States and Canada, and significant judgment is required to determine our tax liabilities. Our effective tax rate as well as the actual tax ultimately payable could be adversely affected by changes in the split of earnings between jurisdictions with differing statutory tax rates, in the valuation of deferred tax assets, in tax laws or by material audit assessments, which could affect our profitability. In particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the United States, is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in the United States. In addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our profitability. We adopted the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 48 Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes (FIN 48), an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (SFAS 109), on January 1, 2007. As a result of the implementation of FIN 48, we recognized an adjustment in the liability for unrecognized income tax benefits of $1.1 million, which was accounted for as a reduction to the January 1, 2007 balance of retained earnings. In addition, at January 1, 2007 we reclassified $18.2 million from deferred taxes to other long-term liabilities. At December 31, 2008, we had $43.2 million of unrecognized tax benefits, of which $3.4 million would impact the effective tax rate at recognition. The cost of complying with laws relating to the protection of the environment and worker safety may be significant. We are subject to extensive, evolving and often increasingly stringent international, federal, state, provincial, municipal and local laws and regulations such as those relating to the protection of human health and the environment, including those limiting the discharge of pollutants into the environment and those regulating the treatment, storage, disposal and remediation of, and exposure to, solid and hazardous wastes and hazardous materials, as well as plaintiffs’ suits seeking to use these laws or common law tort or contractual theories. Certain environmental laws and regulations impose strict joint and several liability on potentially responsible parties, including past and present owners and operators of sites, to clean up, or contribute to the cost of cleaning up sites at which hazardous wastes or materials were disposed or released. We are currently, and may in the future be, required to incur costs relating to the investigation or remediation of such sites, including sites where we have, or may have, disposed of our waste. See Item 1, “Business—Regulation.” 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We believe that we are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations, many of which provide for substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations. Nonetheless, we expect to incur expenses to maintain such compliance and it is possible that more stringent environmental laws and regulations, more vigorous enforcement or a new interpretation of existing laws and regulations could require us to incur additional costs and penalties. Further, existing or future circumstances, such as the discovery of new or materially different environmental conditions, could cause us to incur additional costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are also subject to various laws and regulations relating to health and safety. In October 2004, we reached an agreement with the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) to resolve certain matters identified during an OSHA inspection at our Houston Furnace and Cooling plants. We did not admit any violations of the Occupational Safety and Health Act or OSHA standards, but we did agree, among other things, to address certain issues identified by OSHA during its inspection and to pay OSHA a penalty of $277,000. We have paid the penalty and are currently conducting certain actions required by this settlement, including the installation of certain machine guarding. We expect to make capital expenditures at these and other facilities to improve worker health and safety. Expenditures at these and any other facilities to assure compliance with OSHA standards could be significant, and we may become subject to additional liabilities relating to our facilities in the future. In addition, future inspections at these or other facilities may result in additional actions by OSHA. Our products are also subject to international, federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations. We are required to maintain our products in compliance with applicable current laws and regulations, and any changes which affect our current or future products could have a negative impact on our business and could result in additional compliance costs. Effective January 23, 2006, U.S. federal regulations mandated an increase in the minimum SEER from 10 to 13 for central air conditioners and heat pumps manufactured in the United States. On November 19, 2007, the U.S. Department of Energy issued new regulations increasing the minimum annual fuel utilization efficiency, or AFUE, for several types of residential furnaces. These regulations apply to furnaces manufactured for sale in the U.S. or imported into the U.S., on and after November 19, 2015. On December 19, 2007, federal legislation was enacted authorizing the U.S. Department of Energy to study the establishment of regional efficiency standards for furnaces and air conditioners. We anticipate that the U.S. Department of Energy will consider establishing regional standards for heating and air conditioners during future rulemaking. We have established processes that we believe will allow us to offer products that meet or exceed new standards in advance of implementation. The required efficiency levels for our products may be further increased in the future by the relevant regulatory authorities. Any future changes in required efficiency levels or other government regulations could adversely affect our industry and our business. We also currently use a refrigerant that the EPA is in the process of phasing out. See Item 1, “Business—Regulation.” To the extent that our competitors are not subject to EPA regulations or continue to use such refrigerants following completion of the EPA phase-out, we may suffer a competitive disadvantage. Labor disputes with our employees could interrupt our operations and adversely affect our business. We are a party to a collective bargaining agreement with the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers and Affiliates that, as of December 31, 2008, represented approximately 24% of our employees. This agreement covers all hourly employees at our manufacturing facility in Fayetteville, Tennessee and is scheduled to expire in December 2009. If we are unable to successfully negotiate acceptable terms with this union, our operating costs could increase as a result of higher wages or benefits paid to union members, or if we fail to reach an agreement with the union, our operations could be disrupted. Either event could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, there have been in the past, and may be in the future, attempts to unionize our non-union facilities. If employees at our non-union facilities unionize in the future, our operating costs could increase. Our business operations could be significantly disrupted if we lose members of our management team. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our executive officers and key employees, both individually and as a group. For example, we have longstanding relationships with most of our independent distributors. In many cases, these relationships have been formed over a period of years through personal networks involving our key personnel. The loss of these personnel could potentially disrupt these 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements longstanding relationships and adversely affect our business. We have employment-related agreements with 12 members of our senior management. Our future performance will be substantially dependent on our ability to retain and motivate our management. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or key employees could prevent us from executing our business strategy. We may be adversely affected by any natural or man-made disruptions to our distribution and manufacturing facilities. We are a manufacturing company that is heavily dependent on our manufacturing and distribution facilities in order to maintain our business and remain competitive. Any serious disruption to a significant portion of our distribution or manufacturing facilities resulting from fire, earthquake, weather-related events, an act of terrorism or any other cause could materially impair our ability to manufacture and distribute our products to customers. Moreover, we could incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with manufacturing or distributing our products to our customers during the time that it takes for us to reopen or replace damaged facilities. Many of our facilities are located at or near Houston, Texas, which is in close proximity to the Gulf of Mexico. This region is particularly susceptible to natural disruptions, as evidenced by recent hurricane activity. If any of these events were to occur, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. If we are unable to access funds generated by our subsidiaries we may not be able to meet our financial obligations. Because we conduct our operations through our subsidiaries, we depend on those entities for dividends, distributions and other payments to generate the funds necessary to meet our financial obligations. Legal and contractual restrictions in certain agreements governing current and future indebtedness of our subsidiaries, as well as the financial condition and operating requirements of our subsidiaries, may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. All of our subsidiaries are separate and independent legal entities and have no obligation whatsoever to pay any dividends, distributions or other payments to us. Our business operations could be negatively impacted if we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or if third parties claim that we are in violation of their intellectual property rights. Our products are marketed primarily under the Goodman®, Amana® and Quietflex® brand names and, as such, we are dependent on those brand names. Failure to protect these brand names and other intellectual property rights or prevent their unauthorized use by third parties could adversely affect our business. We seek to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing and confidentiality agreements. These protections may not be adequate to prevent competitors from copying or reverse engineering our products, or from developing and marketing products that are substantially equivalent to or superior to our own. In addition, we face the risk of claims that we are infringing third parties’ intellectual property rights. Any such claim, even if it is without merit, could be expensive and time-consuming; could cause us to cease making, using or selling certain products that incorporate the disputed intellectual property; could require us to redesign our products, if feasible; could divert management time and attention; and could require us to enter into costly royalty or licensing arrangements. The interests of our controlling stockholder may differ from the interests of the holders of the notes. As of February 28, 2009, Hellman & Friedman LLC (H&F) and its affiliates owned, in the aggregate, approximately 87% of Parent’s common stock and Parent indirectly owns all of our common stock. In addition, H&F and its affiliates, by virtue of their ownership of our Parent’s common stock and their voting rights under a stockholders agreement, control the vote, in connection with substantially all matters subject to Parent stockholder approval. As a result of this ownership and the terms of a stockholders agreement, H&F is entitled to elect directors with majority voting power in our Parent’s Board of Directors, to appoint new management and to approve actions requiring the approval of the holders of our Parent’s outstanding voting shares as a single class, including adopting most amendments to our certificate of incorporation and approving mergers or sales of all or substantially all of our Parent’s assets. H&F, through its control of Parent and us, also controls all of our subsidiary guarantors. The interests of H&F and its affiliates may differ from yours in material respects. For example, if we encounter financial difficulties or are unable to pay our debts as they mature, the interests of H&F and its affiliates, 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements as equity holders, might conflict with interests of a note holder. H&F and its affiliates may also have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in its judgment, could enhance its equity investments, even though such transactions might involve risks to a note holder, including the incurrence of additional indebtedness. Additionally, the indenture governing our 2016 notes permits us to pay certain advisory fees, dividends or make other restricted payments under certain circumstances, and H&F may have an interest in our doing so. H&F and its affiliates are in the business of making investments in companies and may, from time to time in the future, acquire interests in businesses that directly or indirectly compete with certain portions of our business or are suppliers or customers of ours. You should consider that the interests of H&F and its affiliates may differ from yours in material respects. The requirements of publicly filing periodic and other reports in compliance with the federal securities laws may strain our resources and distract management. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we will be required to include a report of management on our internal control over financial reporting in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, and our independent public accountants auditing our financial statements will be required to attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. This requirement will first apply to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2009. Previously, in connection with our 2006 year-end close, it was determined that some of our predecessor’s commodity derivatives did not qualify for hedge accounting and, as a result, we restated the prior quarters of 2006 to reflect the changes in fair value of those derivatives in other (income) expense, net, and our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not then effective for this reason. If we are unable to conclude that our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting are effective, or if our independent public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified report as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in future years, the trading price of our 2016 notes may decline. We may lose the right to use the Amana® brand name which may have an adverse effect on our business. Under an agreement between the Amana Society and Amana Refrigeration, Inc., Amana Refrigeration, Inc. agreed that it would discontinue the use of the Amana® brand name in its corporate name or in connection with any other business enterprise if it were ever to abandon manufacturing operations in Amana, Iowa. Maytag Corporation purchased the Amana appliance business in July 2001 and now controls the manufacturing operations in Amana, Iowa. Subsequently, Maytag was acquired by Whirlpool Corporation in March 2006. We maintained the right to use the Amana name and trademark under a license agreement with Maytag. The trademark license agreement expires in July, 2011, with renewal terms available for a total of an additional 15 years. Prior to a cessation of such operation or following a decision by Maytag to not maintain trademark registrations for the Amana name, Maytag has agreed to consult with us and provide reasonable assistance to us so that we may register the Amana name as a trademark. However, we have no control over Maytag’s decision to continue operations at that facility, and if such operations are discontinued, it is possible that we could lose the right to use the Amana name in connection with our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 