Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks related to our company and our business We may be required to seek additional capital in order to fund our operations, and our ability to obtain additional capital is uncertain. Our cash and cash equivalents totaled approximately $15.6 million at June 30, 2008. We believe we can fund our operations as currently conducted through at least June 30, 2010. This expectation is based on the assumptions that we continue to receive the Pfizer quarterly $500,000 research and development funding, Alimera continues to fund the development of Iluvien, we resume receiving Retisert royalties from Bausch & Lomb during the fiscal year ending June 30, 2010 and we receive the scheduled conditional note payments from Alimera. However, whether and when we will require additional capital will depend upon many other factors, including, but not limited to: • the continuation of our existing collaborations with Pfizer and Alimera, including their continued funding of our programs and our receipt of milestone, royalty, note and other payments; • the timely development, regulatory approval and commercialization of Iluvien, which is our primary product candidate currently in development; • the amount and timing of sales of Retisert, which affect the timing of the resumption of Retisert royalty payments and the amount of such royalty payments; • the scope and extent of our internally funded operations, including our programs for BrachySil (including any Phase III trials for BrachySil for pancreatic cancer), any new product candidates, or any new business opportunities; • our ability to establish and maintain strategic arrangements for Brachysil or any other product candidates for research, development, clinical testing, manufacturing and marketing; • the success of our products and product candidates, including the timing and costs of regulatory approvals and the commercial success of approved products; • the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining, defending and enforcing patent claims; and • changes in our operating plan, including the pursuit of any new business opportunities, which may affect our need for capital. In particular, our future cash position depends significantly on the approval and marketing of Iluvien and the occurrence of certain liquidity events under the terms of our amended collaboration agreement with Alimera. Alimera has agreed to pay us a $25 million payment upon FDA approval of Iluvien and a 20% share in the future profits of Iluvien. In addition, the $15 million note issued by Alimera becomes due and payable upon the occurrence of certain defined liquidity events (such as an initial public offering) that result in aggregate proceeds to Alimera in excess of $75 million. There is no assurance that the FDA will approve Iluvien or that Iluivien will achieve market acceptance even if it is approved by the FDA. There is similarly no guarantee of the occurrence of a liquidity event resulting in aggregate gross proceeds to Alimera in excess of $75 million. If we require additional capital in the future, we do not know if it will be available when needed or on terms favorable to us or our stockholders. If available, additional equity financing may be dilutive to stockholders, debt financing may involve restrictive covenants or other unfavorable terms and potentially dilutive equity, and collaboration agreements may be on unfavorable terms, including a requirement that we relinquish rights to certain of our technologies or products. If adequate financing is not available if and when needed, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs, postpone the pursuit of product candidates and new business opportunities, or otherwise reduce our cash requirements. 14 Table of Contents We have a history of losses; we expect to continue to incur losses, and we may never become profitable. pSivida was formed in 2000. As primarily a research and development company, we have incurred operating losses in every year of our existence. We incurred a net loss of $47.0 million for the year ended June 30, 2006, a net loss of $81.2 million for the year ended June 30, 2007 and a net loss of $75.7 million for the year ended June 30, 2008. As of June 30, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $224.5 million. We have not achieved profitability and expect to continue to incur net losses through at least the fiscal year ending June 30, 2010, and we may incur losses beyond that time if our Iluvien product candidate is not approved and widely marketed. Even if Iluvien is approved and marketed at some point after June 30, 2010, our profit share on sales of Iluvien, combined with royalty income from our current products and product candidates, and any other sources of revenue, may not be sufficient to result in profitability at that time or at any other time. We do not currently derive revenue from Retisert, and there is no assurance that Retisert will ever be a material source of revenue. In consideration of a June 2005 royalty advance of $3.0 million, we agreed that Bausch & Lomb would retain $6.25 million of future Retisert royalties that otherwise would be payable to us under the license agreement. As of June 30, 2008, an additional $2.8 million of future royalties otherwise payable to us from the sales of Retisert will be retained by Bausch & Lomb before we are entitled to receive any further royalty payments. At June 30, 2007, we decreased our assessment of the probable level of future sales of Retisert as a result of historical sales trends and Bausch & Lomb’s decision to withdraw its European application for authorization to market Retisert, resulting in a $45.3 million impairment write-down of the value assigned to the Retisert patents at the time of the CDS acquisition. In addition, the use of the corticosteroid FA in Retisert has been associated with undesirable side effects, including increased incidence of cataract formation and increased intraocular pressure, which side effects we believe have negatively affected sales of Retisert. We cannot predict when, if ever, we will begin receiving full royalty payments from Bausch & Lomb or the amount of any future royalty payments that we will receive. Certain of our current licensees may terminate their agreements with us at any time, and if they do, we may not be able to effectively develop and sell our products. Our licensees have rights of termination under our agreements with them. Exercise of termination rights by those parties may leave us temporarily or permanently without development, marketing or sales resources, which may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, our interests may not continue to coincide with those of our partners, and our partners may develop, independently or with third parties, products or technologies that could compete with our products. Further, disagreements over rights or technologies or other proprietary interests may occur. We have exclusively licensed certain of our controlled drug delivery technologies to Pfizer for certain ophthalmic applications. Pfizer is funding research and further development and commercialization of products licensed under our agreement with them. Pfizer may terminate the agreement without penalty at any time and for any reason upon 60 days written notice. We have exclusively licensed our technology underlying Vitrasert, Retisert and other ophthalmic applications to Bausch & Lomb, and have licensed the technology underlying Iluvien and certain ophthalmic applications to Alimera. Bausch & Lomb is responsible for funding and managing the development and commercialization of all licensed products and can terminate its agreement with us without penalty at any time upon 90 days’ written notice. Pursuant to the amended collaboration agreement with Alimera, Alimera has assumed financial responsibility for the development of licensed products, along with sole responsibility for the commercialization of such licensed products. Alimera may abandon the development and commercialization of any licensed product at any time. Alimera was incorporated in June 2003 and has limited resources. Any of Pfizer, Alimera or Bausch & Lomb may decide not to continue with or commercialize any or all of the licensed products, change strategic 15 Table of Contents focus, pursue alternative technologies or develop competing products. While Pfizer and Bausch & Lomb have significant experience in the ophthalmic field and have substantial resources, there is no assurance as to whether, and to what extent, that experience and those resources will be devoted to our technologies. Because we do not currently have sufficient funding or internal capabilities to develop and commercialize our products and product candidates, decisions, actions, breach or termination of these agreements by Pfizer, Bausch & Lomb or Alimera could delay or stop the development or commercialization of Retisert, Iluvien or other potential future product candidates licensed to such entities. We have paid penalties pursuant to registration agreements with securities holders relating to resale registration statements, and any requirement to pay such penalties in the future may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We have registration rights agreements that require us to file and maintain the effectiveness of registration statements for the resale of our common stock, which provide for monetary penalties in the event of our failure to do so. During the year ended June 30, 2007, we paid registration delay penalties of approximately $2.3 million in connection with our then outstanding Sandell subordinated convertible promissory note and Absolute subordinated convertible notes. Our failure or inability to maintain the effectiveness of any of our required registration statements or to adequately update information in the related prospectuses may subject us to additional penalties under our current registration rights agreements. Payment of additional penalties may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and may require us to suspend, curtail or terminate our operations or delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research and development programs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we do not receive the necessary regulatory approvals, we will be unable to commercialize our product candidates. Our current and future activities are and will be subject to stringent regulation by governmental authorities both in the United States and in any other country in which our products are marketed. Before we or our collaborative partners can manufacture, market and sell any of our product candidates, approval from the FDA and/or foreign regulatory authorities is first required. Generally, in order to obtain these approvals, pre-clinical studies and clinical trials must demonstrate that each of our product candidates is safe for human use and effective for its targeted disease or condition. Our product candidates are in various stages of pre-clinical and clinical testing. In particular, Iluvien is in Phase III clinical trials and Brachysil is in a dose ranging clinical trial. Product development involves a high degree of risk, and only a small number of research and development programs result in an approved product. If clinical trials for any of our product candidates do not provide the necessary evidence of safety and effectiveness, those product candidates cannot be manufactured and sold and will not generate revenue from sales. Clinical trials for our product candidates may fail or be delayed by many factors, including the following: • our lack of sufficient funding to pursue trials rapidly or at all; • our inability to attract clinical investigators for trials; • our inability to recruit patients in sufficient numbers or at the expected rate; • our inability to reach agreement with a collaborative partner to undertake the clinical trials; • adverse side effects; • failure of the trials to demonstrate a product’s safety or efficacy; • our failure to meet FDA or other regulatory agency requirements for clinical trial design; • our inability to follow patients adequately after treatment; • changes in the design or manufacture of a product; • failures by, or changes in the relationship of our collaboration partners with, contract research organizations, third-party vendors and investigators responsible for preclinical testing and clinical trials; 16 Table of Contents • our inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of materials for use in clinical trials; and • governmental or regulatory delays. Results from pre-clinical testing and early clinical trials often do not accurately predict results of later clinical trials. Data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical activities are susceptible to varying interpretations which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Data from pre-clinical studies, early clinical trials and interim periods in multi-year trials are preliminary and may change, and final data from pivotal trials for such products may differ significantly. Adverse side effects may develop that delay, limit or prevent the regulatory approval of products, or cause their regulatory approvals to be limited or even rescinded. For example, Iluvien utilizes the corticosteroid FA as its active ingredient, which has been associated with undesirable side effects in Retisert. Our collaborative partner must demonstrate that Iluvien presents an acceptable risk/benefit profile in order to achieve FDA approval. Additional trials necessary for approval may not be undertaken or may ultimately fail to establish the safety and efficacy of proposed products. The FDA or other relevant regulatory agencies may not approve proposed products for manufacture and sale. Any product approvals we achieve could also be withdrawn for failure to comply with regulatory standards or due to unforeseen problems after the products’ marketing approval. In either case, we would be required to cease marketing the affected product. In addition, the FDA or other regulatory agencies may impose limitations on the indicated uses for which a product may be marketed. In addition to testing, regulatory agencies impose various requirements on manufacturers and sellers of products under their jurisdiction, such as packaging, labeling, manufacturing practices, record keeping and reporting. Regulatory agencies may also require post-marketing testing and surveillance programs to monitor a product’s effects. Furthermore, changes in existing regulations or the adoption of new regulations could prevent us from obtaining, or affect the timing of, future regulatory approvals. We rely heavily upon patents and trade secrets to protect our proprietary technologies. If we fail to protect our intellectual property or infringe on others’ technologies, our ability to develop and market our products and product candidates may be compromised. Our success is dependent on whether we can obtain patents, defend our existing patents and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties. As of August 31, 2008, we had 122 patents and 282 pending patent applications, including patents and pending applications covering our Durasert, BioSilicon and CODRUG technologies. Intellectual property protection of our technologies is uncertain. We expect to seek to patent and protect our proprietary technologies. However, there is no assurance that any additional patents will be issued to us as a result of our pending or future patent applications or that any of our patents will withstand challenges by others. In addition, we may not have sufficient funds to patent and protect our proprietary technologies to the extent that we would desire or at all. If we were determined to be infringing any third party patent, we could be required to pay damages, alter our products or processes, obtain licenses, pay royalties or cease certain operations. We may not be able to obtain any required licenses on commercially favorable terms, if at all. In addition, many foreign country laws may treat the protection of proprietary rights differently from, and may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as, laws in the United States and Patent Co-operation Treaty countries. Prior art may reduce the scope or protection of, or invalidate, patents. Previously conducted research or published discoveries may prevent patents from being granted, invalidate issued patents or narrow the scope of any protection obtained. Reduction in scope of protection or invalidation of our licensed or owned patents, or our inability to obtain patents, may enable other companies to develop products that compete with our products and product candidates on the basis of the same or similar technology. As a result, our patents and those of our licensors may not provide any or sufficient protection against competitors. 17 Table of Contents While we have not been and are not currently involved in any litigation over intellectual property, such litigation may be necessary to enforce any patents issued or licensed to us or to determine the scope and validity of third party proprietary rights. We may also be sued by one or more third parties alleging that we infringe their intellectual property rights. Any intellectual property litigation would be likely to result in substantial costs to us and diversion of our efforts. If our competitors claim technology also claimed by us and if they prepare and file patent applications in the U.S. or other jurisdictions, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark office or appropriate foreign patent office to determine priority of invention, which could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our efforts. Any such litigation or interference proceedings, regardless of the outcome, could be expensive and time consuming. Litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, requiring disputed rights to be licensed from third parties and/or require us to cease using certain technologies. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and technology that are not protected by patents to maintain our competitive position. We try to protect this information by entering into confidentiality agreements with parties that have access to it, such as our corporate partners, collaborators, employees, and consultants. Any of these parties could breach these agreements and disclose our confidential information, or our competitors may learn of the information in some other way. If any material trade secret, know-how or other technology not protected by a patent were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor, our competitive position could be materially harmed. We have a limited ability to develop and market products ourselves. If we are unable to find marketing or commercialization partners, or our marketing or commercialization partners do not successfully develop or market our products, we may be unable to effectively develop and market products on our own. We have limited product development capability and no marketing or sales staff. Developing products and achieving market acceptance for them will require extensive and substantial efforts by experienced personnel as well as expenditure of significant funds. We may not be able to establish sufficient capabilities necessary to develop products and achieve market penetration ourselves. Our business strategy includes entering into collaborative arrangements for the development and commercialization of our product candidates, and we currently have collaborations with Alimera, Pfizer and Bausch & Lomb. The curtailment or termination of any of these arrangements could adversely affect our business, our ability to develop and commercialize our products and proposed products and our ability to fund operations. The success of these and future collaborative arrangements will depend heavily on the experience, resources, efforts and activities of our collaborators. Our collaborators have, and are expected to have, significant discretion in making these decisions. Risks that we face in connection with our collaboration strategy include the following: • our collaborative arrangements are, and are expected to be, subject to termination under various circumstances including on short notice and without cause; • we are required, and expect to be required, under our collaborative arrangements not to conduct specified types of research and development in the field that is the subject of the collaboration, limiting the areas of research and development that we can pursue; • our collaborators may develop and commercialize, either alone or with others, products that are similar to or competitive with our products; • our collaborators, consistent with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that have historically acted similarly, may for a variety of reasons change the focus of their development and commercialization efforts or decrease or fail to increase spending related to our products, limiting the ability of our products to reach their potential; 18 Table of Contents • our collaborators may lack the funding or experience to develop and commercialize our products successfully or may otherwise fail to do so; and • our collaborators may not perform their obligations, in whole or in part. To the extent that we choose not to, or we are unable to, enter into future license agreements with marketing and sales partners and seek to market and sell products ourselves, we would experience increased capital requirements to develop the ability to manufacture, market and sell future products. We may not be able to manufacture, market or sell our technology or future products independently in the absence of such agreements. If our competitors and potential competitors develop products that receive regulatory approval before our product candidates are approved or reach the market prior to our product candidates, are more effective or have fewer side effects than our products or product candidates or are more effectively marketed or cost less, our products or product candidates may not achieve the sales we anticipate and could be rendered obsolete. We believe that pharmaceutical, drug delivery and biotechnology companies, research organizations, governmental entities, universities, hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and individual scientists are seeking to develop the drugs, therapies, products, approaches or methods to treat our targeted diseases or their underlying causes. For many of our targeted diseases, competitors have alternate therapies that are already commercialized or are in various stages of development ranging from discovery to advanced clinical trials. Any of these drugs, therapies, products, approaches or methods may receive government approval or gain market acceptance more rapidly than our products and product candidates, may offer therapeutic or cost advantages or may cure our targeted diseases or their underlying causes completely, which could reduce demand for our products and product candidates and could render them noncompetitive or obsolete. For example, sales of Vitrasert for the treatment of CMV retinitis, a disease that affects people with late-stage AIDS, have declined significantly because of new treatments that delay the onset of late-stage AIDS. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technological, research and development, marketing and personnel resources than us. Our competitors may succeed in developing alternate technologies and products that, in comparison to the products we have and are seeking to develop: • are more effective and easier to use; • are more economical; • have fewer side effects; or • otherwise render our products less competitive or obsolete. Many of these competitors have greater experience in developing products, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals or clearances and manufacturing and marketing products, and have more significant resources. Problems associated with international business operations could affect our ability to manufacture and sell our products. If we encounter such problems, our costs could increase and our development of products could be delayed. We currently maintain offices in the U.S. and the U.K. BrachySil is produced for us in Germany and the U.K., and BioSilicon is produced in-house and by third party contractors in the U.K. We have research and development facilities in the U.S. and the U.K., and we intend to license products for sale and/or sell products in most major world healthcare markets. A number of risks are inherent in our international strategy. In order for us to license and manufacture our products, we must obtain country and jurisdiction-specific regulatory approvals or clearances to comply with regulations regarding safety and quality. We may not be able to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals or clearances in such countries, and we may be required to incur significant costs in 19 Table of Contents obtaining or maintaining foreign regulatory approvals or clearances. In addition, our operations and revenues may be subject to a number of risks associated with foreign commerce, including the following: • staffing and managing foreign operations; • political and economic instability; • foreign currency exchange fluctuations; • foreign tax laws, tariffs and freight rates and charges; • timing and availability of export licenses; • inadequate protection of intellectual property rights in some countries; and • obtaining required governmental approvals. If we encounter problems with product manufacturing, we could experience delays in product development and commercialization, which would adversely affect our future profitability. Our ability to conduct timely preclinical and clinical research and development programs, obtain regulatory approvals, commercialize our product candidates and fulfill our contract manufacturing obligations to others will depend, in part, upon our and our collaborative partners’ ability to manufacture our products, either directly or through third parties, in accordance with FDA and other regulatory requirements. The manufacture and packaging of our products and product candidates are regulated by the FDA and similar foreign regulatory entities and must be conducted in accordance with applicable current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP. There are a limited number of manufacturers that operate under these cGMP regulations which are both capable of manufacturing our products and product candidates and are willing to do so. Failure by us, our collaborative partners or our or their third-party manufacturers to comply with applicable manufacturing requirements could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our product candidates, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of product, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions. We currently have BioSilicon production capability at our facility and under contract in the U.K. for use in internal and collaborative research. BrachySil is currently manufactured by a third party under contract, in accordance with cGMP. We currently manufacture clinical supplies of Iluvien pursuant to our agreement with Alimera. We are also obligated to manufacture all clinical supplies pursuant to our agreement with Pfizer, but only to the extent required in the research plan. We could experience delays in the development or commercialization of our product candidates if we or our partners are unable to manufacture by ourselves, or to source third parties to manufacture, Iluvien, BioSilicon, BrachySil or other product candidates. We or our collaborative partners may not be able to manufacture our proposed products successfully or have a third party manufacture them in a cost-effective manner. If we or our collaborative partners are unable to develop our own manufacturing facilities or to obtain or retain third-party manufacturing on acceptable terms, we may not be able to conduct certain future pre-clinical and clinical testing or to supply commercial quantities of our products. We have licensed to Pfizer the exclusive rights to manufacture commercial quantities of ophthalmic products covered by its license agreement with us. We have licensed to Bausch & Lomb the exclusive rights to manufacture commercial quantities of Vitrasert, Retisert and other products covered by its license agreement with us. We have licensed to Alimera the rights to manufacture commercial quantities of Iluvien, if approved for marketing, and other products covered by its license agreement with us. Our current reliance on third party manufacturers entails risks, including: • the possibility that third parties may not comply with the FDA’s cGMP regulations, other regulatory requirements, and those of similar foreign regulatory bodies, and may not employ adequate quality assurance practices; 20 Table of Contents • supply disruption, deterioration in product quality or breach of a manufacturing or license agreement by the third party because of factors beyond our control; • the possible termination or non-renewal of a manufacturing or licensing agreement with a third party at a time that is costly or inconvenient to us; and • our inability to identify or qualify an alternative manufacturer in a timely manner, even if contractually permitted to do so. For example, we believe that Alimera currently intends to rely on a single manufacturer of Iluvien and a single active pharmaceutical ingredient formulator. Our business could be significantly harmed if these third parties are not able to satisfy demand and alternative sources are not available. In addition, the materials necessary to produce Iluvien or formulate the active pharmaceutical ingredient may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, which could affect the development and commercialization of Iluvien. Reimbursement of our products by government health administration authorities and other third-party payors could affect market acceptance. In both domestic and foreign markets, our ability to commercialize our products successfully depends, in part, upon the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payors, such as government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations. Governments and other third-party payors attempt to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for products. Third-party payors may challenge the price and cost-effectiveness of our products. If our products are not considered cost-effective, third-party payors may deny or limit reimbursement. Governments and other third-party payors may refuse to provide coverage for uses of approved products for disease indications for which they have not been granted regulatory approval. If government and third-party payors do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for uses of our products, the market acceptance of our products would be limited. There have been a number of U.S. federal and state proposals during the last few years to subject the pricing of pharmaceuticals to government control and to make other changes to the health care system in the U.S. It is uncertain what legislative proposals will be adopted or what actions federal, state or private payors for health care goods and services may take in response to any health care reform proposals or legislation. Similar health care reforms may also be implemented outside of the U.S. We cannot predict the effect health care reforms may have on our business. If we fail to retain some or all of our key personnel, our business could suffer. We are dependent upon the principal members of our management, administrative and scientific staff. In addition, we believe that our future success in developing our products and achieving a competitive position will depend to a large extent on whether we can attract and retain additional qualified management and scientific personnel. There is strong competition for such personnel within the industry in which we operate and we may not be able to continue to attract such personnel either to Massachusetts, where much of our research and development is conducted, or to Malvern in the U.K. As we do not have large numbers of employees and our products are unique and highly specialized, the loss of the services of one or more of the senior management or scientific staff, or the inability to attract and retain additional personnel and develop expertise as needed, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we are subject to product liability suits, we may not have sufficient insurance to cover damages. The testing, manufacturing, and marketing and sale of the products utilizing our technologies involves risks that product liability claims may be asserted against us or our licensees. Our current clinical trial and product liability insurance may not be adequate to cover damages resulting from product liability claims. Further, we may 21 Table of Contents not be able to acquire sufficient clinical trial or product liability insurance in the future on reasonable commercial terms, if at all. If we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations, our ability to manufacture and commercialize products may be adversely affected. Medical and biopharmaceutical research and development involves the controlled use of hazardous materials, such as radioactive compounds and chemical solvents. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations in the U.S. and abroad governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of such materials and waste products. We could be subject to both criminal liability and civil damages in the event of an improper or unauthorized release of, or exposure of individuals to, hazardous materials. In addition, claimants may sue us for injury or contamination that results from our use or the use by third parties of these materials, and our liability may exceed our total assets. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations is expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development or production efforts or harm our operating results. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results on a timely basis or prevent or detect errors in our financial statements, and investor confidence and the market price of our shares may be adversely affected. Our management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2008 pursuant to section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related SEC rules and concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of June 30, 2008. Specifically, management identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. The material weakness that management identified relates to our controls over the application of U.S. GAAP to complex transactions. This material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting also resulted in a conclusion by our management that disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of June 30, 2008. In June 2008, we restated our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements as of and for the quarters ended March 31, 2008, December 31, 2007 and September 30, 2007. Subsequent to March 31, 2008, we identified an error requiring an adjustment of $4.7 million to Goodwill and Additional paid-in capital at March 31, 2008, December 31, 2007 and September 30, 2007. The error originally occurred in December 2005 and was the result of incorrectly translating the A$ value of shares issued as purchase consideration for the acquisition of CDS back to US$ as a result of using the exchange rate at the measurement date determined under the Australian equivalents of International Financial Reporting Standards (A-IFRS) instead of under U.S. GAAP. This error relates to the control deficiency identified above. We are in the process of addressing our material weakness and will seek to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. If we are not able to effectively address the identified material weakness or otherwise fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or effective disclosure controls and procedures, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results in a timely manner or prevent errors or fraud, and investor confidence and the market price of our shares may be adversely affected. Our results could be adversely affected as a result of the impact of impairment of our intangible assets, which could adversely affect the price of your securities. In connection with our acquisitions of CDS and pSiMedica, we recorded significant amounts of goodwill, patents and licenses, as well as deferred tax liabilities. Goodwill is subject to at least annual impairment analysis, and the recorded value of patents and licenses must also be evaluated for impairment in certain circumstances. Impairment charges may be material and may adversely affect the price of our shares. 22 Table of Contents At June 30, 2008, we conducted our annual impairment analysis of goodwill as required under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (U.S. GAAP). The goodwill impairment charge of $60.1 million was determined by comparing the carrying value of goodwill of the reporting unit with the implied fair value of goodwill of the reporting unit, and was primarily due to the decline in the Company’s share price during the fourth quarter that was deemed to be other than temporary. Further, in July 2007, we received formal confirmation of our prior understanding from industry sources that Bausch & Lomb had withdrawn its application for authorization to market Retisert in Europe. As required under U.S. GAAP, we evaluated the recoverable amounts of the Retisert intangible assets at June 30, 2007 and recorded an impairment charge of $45.3 million related to these assets. We have $36.8 million of intangible assets on our balance sheet at June 30, 2008. We will conduct impairment analyses of our intangible assets as required. Our results of operations may be materially adversely affected by impairment charges that may result from such analyses. Risks related to our stock The price of our common stock may be volatile. The price of our common stock (and CDIs) may be affected by developments directly affecting our business and by developments out of our control or unrelated to us. The biotechnology sector, in particular, and the stock market generally, are vulnerable to abrupt changes in investor sentiment. Prices of securities and trading volume of companies in the biotechnology industry, including ours, can swing dramatically in ways unrelated to, or that bear a disproportionate relationship to, operating performance. The price of our stock (and CDIs) and their trading volumes may fluctuate based on a number of factors including, but not limited to: • clinical trial results and other product and technological developments and innovations; • FDA and other governmental regulatory actions, receipt and timing of approvals of our product candidates, and any denials and withdrawals of approvals; • competitive factors, including the commercialization of new products in our markets by our competitors; • advancements with respect to treatment of the diseases targeted by our product candidates; • developments relating to collaborative partners, including execution and termination of agreements, achievement of milestones and receipt of payments; • the success of our collaborative partners in marketing any approved products and the amount and timing of the royalties payable to us; • availability and cost of capital and our financial and operating results; • changes in reimbursement policies or other practices relating to our product candidates or the pharmaceutical industry generally; • meeting, exceeding or failing to meet analysts’ or investors’ expectations, and changes in evaluations and recommendations by securities analysts; • economic, industry and market conditions, changes or trends; and • other factors unrelated to us or the biotechnology industry. In addition, low trading volume in our common stock or our CDIs may increase their price volatility. Holders of our common stock and CDIs may not be able to liquidate their positions at the desired time or price. If the holders of our outstanding warrants and stock options exercise their warrants and options, your ownership may be diluted and our stock price may decline. The issuance of shares of our common stock upon exercise of our outstanding warrants and stock options would result in dilution to the interests of other holders of our common stock and could adversely affect our 23 Table of Contents stock price. As of September 15, 2008, we had outstanding warrants and options to acquire 12,171,773 shares of our common stock, or approximately 66.6% of our total outstanding shares. Although the exercise prices of the vast majority of these warrants and options are substantially above the current price, the overhang of such warrants and options may adversely affect our stock price. The warrant exercise prices may be adjusted under certain circumstances, including, among others, in the event we issue securities in a rights offering at a lower price than the exercise price. Pfizer owns a significant percentage of our common stock and is a collaborative partner and therefore may be able to influence our business in ways that are not beneficial to you. Pfizer owned approximately 10.2% of our outstanding shares as of August 31, 2008 and is a collaborative partner. As a result, Pfizer may be able to exert significant influence over our board of directors and how we operate our business. The concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 