ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves risks. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with the other information in this annual report, before you make a decision to purchase or sell our common stock. Risks Relating to the SES Transaction Our pending acquisition by SES Global may be delayed or may not occur at all, which could negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ongoing operations. The completion of our pending acquisition by SES Global is dependent on, among other things, receipt of regulatory approvals, the timing of which cannot be predicted with precision and which may not be received at all, as well as the continued truth and correctness as of the closing date of certain representations and warranties that we made in the transaction agreement, our compliance with certain covenants and agreements that we made in the transaction agreement, and there not having occurred a Total Loss (as defined in the transaction agreement) of any 20 of our satellites. Delays in the timing of the acquisition could significantly impact our operating performance, retention of key employees, maintenance of an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting, and competiveness. Furthermore, if regulatory approval of the amalgamation is not obtained or if other conditions to the closing are not satisfied, we may not be able to close the SES Transaction. This could adversely affect the market price of our shares, adversely affect customer confidence or our competitive position, and have an adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations, funding and other liquidity resources and retention of key employees. See “Item 1—Description of Business—Our Acquisition by SES Global” for a description of our pending acquisition by SES Global. As part of our agreement with SES Global, we agreed to terminate our quarterly dividend program effective January 1, 2006. Even if the SES Transaction is not consummated, you may not receive any dividends. The reduction or elimination of dividends could negatively affect the market price of our common stock. At the time of the NSS IPO, our board of directors adopted a dividend policy, effective upon the closing of the NSS IPO, which reflected an intention to distribute a substantial portion of the cash generated by our business in excess of operating expenses and working capital requirements, interest and principal payments on our indebtedness and capital expenditures as regular quarterly dividends to our shareholders. In the transaction agreement that we entered into with SES Global, we agreed to terminate our quarterly dividend program effective January 1, 2006. Consistent with the terms of the transaction agreement, on December 19, 2005 we declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.463125 per share in respect of the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2005. Even if the transaction agreement between SES Global and us were to be terminated, we may not elect to resume paying quarterly dividends. Dividend payments are within the absolute discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, working capital requirements, capital expenditure requirements, financial condition, contractual restrictions, business opportunities, anticipated cash needs, provisions of applicable law and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. In addition, we are a holding company and conduct all of our operations through our subsidiaries. As a result, we rely on dividends and other payments or distributions from New Skies Satellites B.V. and our other subsidiaries to pay dividends on our common stock and our other obligations, if any. New Skies Satellites B.V. is subject to certain restrictions on payment of dividends under the senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing the notes that, if triggered, may impair our ability to pay dividends. Restrictions under the laws of The Netherlands, Bermuda, Luxembourg and Ireland may also limit the ability of our subsidiaries to make dividend or other payments to us and, consequently, our ability to make dividend payments. If the SES Transaction does not close and we do not resume paying dividends, the market price of our common stock would likely be lower than it was prior to the announcement of the SES Transaction. If we were to resume paying dividends, our payment of dividends could adversely affect our ability to finance any material expansion of our business or to fund our operations. Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness Our operating subsidiary, New Skies Satellites B.V., has a substantial amount of indebtedness. If the SES Transaction is not consummated, this indebtedness may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business, support any future dividend policy, comply with our subsidiary’s debt covenants and repay our subsidiary’s indebtedness. As of December 31, 2005, New Skies Satellites B.V. had outstanding indebtedness of $438.6 million and availability of $125 million (excluding standby letters of credit of $2.0 million) under its revolving credit facility. If the SES Transaction is not consummated and we remain an independent entity, the substantial indebtedness of New Skies Satellites B.V. could have important consequences to you. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the indebtedness of New Skies Satellites B.V., and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of the debt instruments of New Skies Satellites B.V., including financial and other restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default under the indentures governing the notes and the agreements governing such other indebtedness, which could lead to, among other things, cross default and acceleration of our indebtedness; 21 • require New Skies Satellites B.V. to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow to pay principal and interest on its debt, which will reduce the funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate; • make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; • limit our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our growth strategy or other purposes; and • place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt. Any of the above listed factors could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Furthermore, the interest expense of New Skies Satellites B.V. could increase if interest rates increase because the entire amount of debt under the senior floating rate notes and the senior secured credit facilities bears interest at floating rates. Based on the outstanding floating rate indebtedness as of December 31, 2005, a 1% increase in the average interest rate would increase future interest expense by approximately $3.1 million per year. If New Skies Satellites B.V. does not have sufficient earnings to service its debt, it may be required to refinance all or part of its existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or sell securities, which it may not be able to do. If the SES Transaction is not consummated and we remain an independent entity, we will be able to incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. Although the indentures governing the notes and the credit agreement governing the senior secured credit facilities contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. If new debt is added to our anticipated debt levels, the related risks that we now face, including those described above, could intensify. If the SES Transaction is not consummated, we will require a significant amount of cash to service New Skies Satellites B.V.’s indebtedness. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control, and any failure to meet our subsidiary’s debt service obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. At December 31, 2005, our subsidiary’s payment obligations with respect to its indebtedness (excluding satellite performance incentives) consisted of approximately $438.6 million of principal payments. For the year ended December 31, 2005, our subsidiary made approximately $39.9 million of cash interest payments. If the SES Transaction does not close and we remain an independent entity, our subsidiary’s ability to pay interest on and principal of the notes and to satisfy its other debt obligations principally will depend upon our future operating performance. As a result, prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, will affect our ability to make these payments. If New Skies Satellites B.V. does not generate sufficient cash flow provided by operating activities to satisfy its debt service obligations, it may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring its indebtedness, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital. Its ability to restructure or refinance such debt will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our subsidiary’s debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt instruments, including the senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing the notes, may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. Furthermore, the investment funds do not have any obligation to provide us with debt or equity financing in the future. Our subsidiary’s inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy its debt service obligations, or to refinance its obligations on commercially reasonable terms, would have an adverse effect, which could be material, on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows, as well as on our subsidiary’s ability to satisfy its obligations in respect of the notes and the senior secured credit facilities. If the SES Transaction does not close, the terms of the senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing the notes may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to take certain actions. The senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing the notes contain, and any future 22 indebtedness would likely contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions that may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our best long-term interests. The senior secured credit facilities include financial covenants, including requirements that New Skies Satellites B.V.: • maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio; and • not exceed a maximum total leverage ratio. In addition, the senior secured credit facilities limit the ability of New Skies Satellites B.V. to make capital expenditures and require that New Skies Satellites B.V. use proceeds of certain asset sales that are not invested in our business to repay indebtedness under the senior secured credit facilities. The senior secured credit facilities also include covenants restricting, among other things, the ability of New Skies Satellites B.V. to: • incur liens; • incur additional debt (including guarantees); • pay dividends, or make redemptions and repurchases, with respect to capital stock; • prepay, or make redemptions and repurchases, of subordinated debt; • make loans and investments; • reduce its insurance coverage; • engage in mergers, consolidations, acquisitions, disposition of assets and sale/leaseback transactions; • change the business conducted by it; and • amend the terms of subordinated debt. The indentures relating to the notes contain numerous covenants including, among other things, restrictions on the ability of New Skies Satellites B.V. to: • incur additional debt or issue preferred stock; • pay dividends or make distributions on capital stock or repurchase capital stock; • make certain investments; • create liens on assets to secure debt; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • merge or consolidate with another company; and • transfer and sell assets. If the SES Transaction is not consummated and we remain an independent entity, the operating and financial restrictions and covenants in any future financing agreements may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities. A breach of any of the restrictive covenants in the senior secured credit facilities could result in a default under the senior secured credit facilities. If any such default occurs, the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities may elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable, enforce their security interest or require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these borrowings, any of which would result in an event of default under the notes. The lenders will also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. If our subsidiary is unable to repay outstanding borrowings when due, the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities will have the right to proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the debt owed to them. If the debt under the senior secured credit facilities were to be accelerated, our subsidiary’s assets may not be sufficient to repay such debt in full or to repay the notes and our subsidiary’s other debt. 23 Risks Relating to Our Business We may experience satellite equipment failures that impair the commercial performance of our satellites, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, profitability and capital requirements and, in the case of a total loss of a satellite, could cause the SES Transaction not to close. During and after their launch, satellites are subject to in-orbit equipment failures, malfunctions, and other kinds of problems, which we refer to collectively as “anomalies.” Satellite anomalies include, for example, circuit failures, transponder failures, solar array failures, battery cell and other power system failures, satellite control system failures and propulsion system failures. Generally speaking, satellites include certain back-up (or redundant) components that can be placed into service if the primary component suffers an anomaly. In certain cases, however, a redundant component may not be available, in which case the anomaly could degrade commercial performance, reduce transmission capacity, shorten the commercial life of the affected satellite(s), or otherwise limit a satellite’s revenue generating ability. We anticipate that NSS-5, NSS-6, NSS-7, NSS-703, NSS-806 and, assuming a successful launch, NSS-8, will have commercial lives in excess of 12 years from their respective launch dates. It is possible, however, that their commercial lives will be shorter than anticipated. A number of factors will affect the commercial lives of our satellites, including: • the amount of propellant used in maintaining the satellite’s orbital position or relocating the satellite to a new orbital position (and, for newly-launched satellites, the amount of propellant used during orbit raising following launch); • the durability and quality of their construction; • the performance of their components; and • operational considerations, including operational failures. Various anomalies have affected the performance of individual units or systems on our satellites or have reduced or eliminated the number of spare or redundant components or systems. In some cases, this has reduced the satellite’s power or available capacity. In others, the anomaly has affected our operations or created a condition that may affect our operations in the future. In one case, the anomaly has affected a potentially critical component, one of two duplicate power subsystem units (called a low voltage bus converter) on NSS-5. In addition to anomalies suffered by our satellites, some satellites that are similar to our satellites have suffered serious anomalies. See “Item 1—Description of Business – Our Satellites.” The NSS-5 low voltage bus converter anomaly and the failures suffered by certain satellites that are similar to our NSS-5 and NSS-806 satellites have led, and other anomalies in the future may lead, our insurers to place material limitations or exclusions in the applicable insurance policy or policies. Like many other satellites, it is likely that our satellites will suffer additional anomalies in the future. Some of these anomalies may affect transponders or other key components, or units that are critical to the satellite’s continued operation. In these cases, we may not be able to reconfigure the affected component or unit to allow for its continued operation, or to restore normal operations by using redundant components or units on the satellite. Where service cannot be restored, the failure could cause the satellite to have less capacity available for sale, to suffer a performance degradation, or to cease operating prematurely, either in whole or in part. We do not currently operate any of our satellites as back-up or spare capacity for our other satellites. Our satellites may suffer from other problems, such as a loss of propellant, greater than anticipated use of propellant during launch, or malfunctions that could reduce their commercial lives. Acts of war, magnetic, electrostatic or solar storms, space debris or micrometeoroids could also damage our satellites. Any full or partial failure of one of our satellites could cause our revenues and backlog to decline and adversely affect our ability to market our capacity and generate future revenues. In addition, an anomaly that has a serious adverse effect on a satellite’s overall performance or anticipated future commercial life could require us to reduce the satellite’s book value and could cause us to have to expedite our planned replacement program. This, in turn, likely would adversely affect our profitability, our financing needs, and our ability to use available funds for other purposes, including our ability to pay dividends. Anomalies may also cause insurers to include additional exclusions in our insurance policies when they come up for renewal. See “Item 1A–Risk Factors—Risks Relating to Our Business—Insurance expenses may increase, or insurance may become unavailable, or we may decide to employ other strategies for mitigating the risk of a satellite failure.” Finally, a total loss of a satellite could cause 24 the SES Transaction not to close. See “Item 1A—Risk Factors— Risks Relating to Our Business—Our pending acquisition by SES Global may be delayed or may not occur at all.” A significant launch delay or launch failure could affect our ability to satisfy demand for our services and to generate and grow future revenues, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The launch of any future satellite may not take place as scheduled. Delays in launching satellites are common and can result from construction delays, the unavailability of the launch vehicle when construction has been completed and other factors. We also may experience delays in achieving operational service after launch. We currently have one satellite, NSS-8, under construction. NSS-8 is being built by Boeing Satellite Systems International, Inc., or Boeing. Boeing currently projects that NSS-8 will be launched in the fourth quarter of 2006 and will be available to enter commercial service approximately 90 days following launch. All of the available launch slots prior to the scheduled NSS-8 launch on the launch vehicle to be used for NSS-8 have been booked. As a result, there is no margin in the launch provider’s schedule that could absorb any delays that may occur, and a material delay in any of the earlier launches could result in a delay of NSS-8’s launch. We intend to use NSS-8 to replace our NSS-703 satellite. NSS-703, which we anticipate will continue in commercial operation until approximately 2009, will then be relocated to a different orbital location. NSS-8 and NSS-703 are not technically identical and we anticipate that the process of transitioning traffic from NSS-703 to NSS-8 will take several months. During the transition and during the relocation of NSS-703 following the transition, we will begin to incur depreciation charges on NSS-8 but will not yet be able to exploit fully the capacity on the two satellites, which may affect our revenues and profitability. In addition, NSS-703 is an older satellite than others serving the region, and it therefore has less power available than several of our competitors’ satellites. NSS-8 will have greater capacity than NSS-703, as well as other technical characteristics that, we believe, will make it more attractive to customers than NSS-703. As a result, existing and future delays in NSS-8’s launch or any event that causes NSS-8 not to be placed into service (whether due to a significant further construction or launch delay, a launch failure or any other reason), may make it more difficult for us to compete in the geographic region that NSS-703 currently serves. Similarly, such events would delay or prevent us from expanding our operations by placing NSS-703 into service in another orbital location. As a result, such events could adversely affect our anticipated revenues, cause us to lose market share and make it more difficult to maintain our backlog. Satellites are subject to launch failure. The overall historical loss rate for all launches of commercial satellites in fixed orbits is estimated to be approximately 10%. Launch failure rates vary according to the launch vehicle used. The historical loss rate for some launch vehicles may be higher than 10%, but is lower for the type of launch vehicles we have used and plan to use for NSS-8. We expect to use a 6,000-kilogram payload variant of the Sea Launch Zenit-3SL vehicle to launch NSS-8. If NSS-8 were to suffer a launch failure, we would not be required to pay for NSS-8 but likely would have to begin making significant capital expenditures to procure a replacement satellite. In addition, we likely would face a significant delay if we were to construct and launch a replacement satellite. Typically, the construction and launch of a satellite takes at least two, and sometimes more than three, years to complete. An NSS-8 launch failure likely would have the consequences described above for a launch delay, until such time as we either procure and launch a new satellite or re-deploy one of our existing satellites to replace NSS-703. In the event of an NSS-8 launch failure, or if for any other reason NSS-8 is not placed into commercial service, we likely will have a limited amount of time in which to procure and place into service a replacement for NSS-703 before that satellite reaches the end of its life. It is possible that we will be unable to procure a replacement satellite with technical characteristics comparable to NSS-8 (including the amount of available capacity, power and remaining anticipated life). We may experience a failure of ground operations infrastructure that impairs the commercial performance of our satellites or the services delivered over our satellites, which could lead to lost revenues and other adverse consequences. We operate a primary satellite operations center at our headquarters in The Hague. In addition, we maintain a back-up satellite operations center in Redu, Belgium. Signals from our satellite operations center are transmitted to our satellites through our own teleport facilities and through teleports owned by third parties. We may experience a failure in necessary equipment in our satellite operations center, in our back-up facility, or in the communication 25 links between these facilities and remote teleport facilities. We may also experience operational errors. A failure or error affecting our tracking, telemetry and control operations might cause us to be unable to communicate with one or more satellites or cause us to transmit an incorrect instruction to the affected satellite(s). This could lead to a temporary or permanent degradation in satellite performance or to the loss of one or more of our satellites. Depending on the nature and extent of the problem, it could cause our revenues and backlog to decline and could adversely affect our ability to market our capacity and generate future revenues, our profitability, our financing needs, and our ability to use available funds for other purposes, or have the other consequences of a partial or total loss of a satellite described above. See “Item 1A—Risk Factors—Risks Relating to Our Business—We may experience satellite equipment failures that impair the commercial performance of our satellites, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, profitability and capital requirements and, in the case of a total loss of a satellite, could cause the SES Transaction not to close.” We also provide communications services through our own teleport facilities and through teleports owned by third parties. We may experience a failure in necessary equipment in one of our teleports or in a third-party teleport. A failure of necessary ground-based communications equipment could lead to a loss of revenues from customers who were not provided with the proper transmission services, which could adversely affect our revenues. We may become subject to unanticipated tax liabilities that may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Although Holdings is based in Bermuda, New Skies Satellites B.V., our main operating company, is based in The Netherlands and most of our customers are located in other countries, including the United States and India. We believe that we have complied in all material respects with our obligations to pay tax in these other countries. However, our position is subject to review and possible challenge by the taxing authorities of these jurisdictions. In this regard, the government of India has characterized payments made by Indian-based customers and certain payments made by non-resident customers in India as “royalty payments” and has assessed taxes on these payments. We are disputing this assessment. We believe it is probable that a loss has been incurred and have recorded an accrual totalling $7.6 million as of December 31, 2005, representing management’s best estimate of the amount of the withholding tax obligations. As part of this on-going process a further hearing is scheduled for the second quarter of 2006, following which we will be better able to assess the amount of taxes, interest and any other penalties that may ultimately fall due. We may also become subject to additional tax liabilities as a result of possible changes in tax law (which could in certain circumstances have retroactive effect). For example, on September 16, 2005, the IRS and Treasury reissued proposed regulations on determining the source of income from certain space and ocean activities and certain communications activities, and withdrew proposed regulations issued in January 2001. If the regulations are adopted in the form now proposed, and if our income is determined to be derived from an office or fixed place of business in the United States, we may become subject to U.S. tax on a substantial portion of our income that is currently not subject to taxation. It is possible that we may not be eligible for a full or partial relief from such taxation under the United States/The Netherlands income tax treaty or otherwise. If our current tax positions were successfully challenged by the applicable taxing authorities, or if there were changes in tax law or in the manner in which we conduct our activities, we could become subject to material unanticipated tax liabilities. Holdings has obtained an assurance from the Minister of Finance of Bermuda under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966 of Bermuda that, in the event that any legislation is enacted in Bermuda imposing any tax computed on profits, income or any capital asset, gain or appreciation or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, such tax shall not, until March 28, 2016, be applicable to it or to any of its operations or to its shares, debentures or other obligations except insofar as such tax applies to persons ordinarily resident in Bermuda or to any taxes payable by it in respect of real property or leasehold interests in Bermuda held by it. However, we may become subject to Bermuda tax after that date. We may also take the position that we are able to deduct, under applicable Dutch tax law, interest that accrues or is paid on shareholder loans. The decision as to whether to take the position that this interest expense is deductible will be made at the time that we file our initial Dutch tax return, which will be based on whether or not our Dutch subsidiaries can satisfy, among other things, the Dutch “thin capitalization” rules. It is possible that we may not report this interest expense as deductible on our initial Dutch tax return or on subsequently filed tax returns. If we were to take the position that interest on the shareholder loans is deductible under applicable Dutch tax law, 26 the tax authorities may successfully challenge or impose penalties or other sanctions on our reporting position on the basis that we do not satisfy the Dutch “thin capitalization” tax rules or other applicable requirements. To the extent that our Dutch subsidiaries make “upstream” loans, they will be subject to taxation on interest on these loans as it accrues or is paid. We have considered strategies that may mitigate or eliminate any such tax cost, but these strategies may not be available or we may not choose to pursue them. Immediately following the consummation of the NSS IPO, our Irish subsidiaries held and made interest-free intercompany “upstream” loans. Further, our Irish subsidiaries may, in the future, make additional intercompany “upstream” loans on an interest-free basis. Currently, applicable Irish law does not prohibit interest-free, intercompany loans, and does not impute interest income that would create taxable income in Ireland. If Irish tax authorities were to successfully challenge our tax position in this regard, or if there were changes in tax law, we could become subject to additional unanticipated tax liabilities. Our Luxembourg subsidiaries will take the position that they are able to deduct, under applicable Luxembourg tax law, interest that accrues or is paid on the intercompany preferred equity securities and convertible preferred equity securities. We expect to receive from the Luxembourg corporate tax authorities a confirmation request confirming, among other things, the deductibility of interest on these intercompany instruments. Special and adverse U.S. tax rules may apply to the U.S. shareholders with respect to any gain realized on the disposition of ordinary shares and certain excess distributions by the Company, should the Company for any taxable year be treated as a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”). The adverse tax consequences include taxation at ordinary-income rates and payment of an interest charge on tax, which is deemed to have been deferred with respect to such gain or excess distributions. Such unfavorable consequences of PFIC rules can be avoided by (1) making a qualified electing fund election, subject to compliance with certain reporting requirements by the Company; and (2) electing to mark the PFIC stock to market at the close of each taxable year. Our insurance will not protect us against all satellite-related losses. As a result, certain satellite-related losses could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. In the event of a total or partial failure of a satellite, our current in-orbit insurance policies will reimburse us for the portion of the net book value of the satellite lost as a result of the failure, unless the cause of the failure is subject to a policy exclusion. The insurance will not protect us, however, against business interruption, lost revenues or delay of revenues. Our insurance policies define what constitutes a partial failure. In addition, we do not insure the net book value of performance incentives as these are payable only to the extent that the satellite operates in accordance with contracted technical specifications. Typically, we do not insure against all possible partial failures but, rather, only against partial failures that we anticipate would meaningfully affect the revenue-producing capability of the satellite in question. Our existing in-orbit insurance policies include, and any future policies that we obtain can be expected to include, specified exclusions, deductibles and material change limitations. Typically, these insurance policies exclude coverage for damage arising from acts of war, lasers, and other similar potential risks for which exclusions are customary in the industry at the time the policy is written. In addition, they typically exclude coverage for heath-related problems affecting our satellites or, in certain cases, affecting other satellites that are similar to our satellites, which are known at the time the policy is written. Most of the exclusions in our existing policies affect individual units and systems whose loss in the event of a future anomaly would not meaningfully reduce the total revenue-generating capacity of our satellites. In a few cases, however, our policies contain more significant exclusions, which include the low voltage bus converter on NSS-5 (a potentially critical component whose loss could cause a total satellite failure), the rate measuring assembly on NSS-5 and NSS-806, and certain failure modes with respect to the power subsystems on NSS-5 and NSS-806. See “Item 1—Description of Business—Our Satellites—NSS-5” and “Item 1—Description of Business—Our Satellites—NSS-806.” An uninsured total loss of a satellite would, and an uninsured partial loss of a satellite could, require additional, unplanned capital expenditures, or an acceleration of planned capital expenditures and could limit our ability to pay dividends. Currently, insurers are generally writing in-orbit insurance policies for one-year terms. As a result, we must re-insure our satellites each year, and any developments in the insurance market or with our satellite fleet, such as increased rates or more comprehensive exclusions, likely will affect us more rapidly than if longer-term policies were available. All of our in-orbit satellites are insured. 27 Insurance expenses may increase, or insurance may become unavailable, or we may decide to employ other strategies for mitigating the risk of a satellite failure. Increases in insurance expenses could reduce our profitability. The unavailability of insurance, an increase in the scope of insurance exclusions or limitations, or a decision by us to employ alternative strategies could cause us to face an increased risk of suffering an uninsured satellite-related loss, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We currently insure each of our in-orbit satellites under an in-orbit insurance policy, and historically we have insured each of our satellites during launch and for a specified period following launch under a launch insurance policy. In-orbit insurance generally costs between 2% and 3% of the net book value of the insured satellite each year. Launch insurance currently costs approximately 15% to 25% of the insured amount. Insurance rates may vary depending on market conditions, the safety record of the launch vehicle and the performance record of similar satellites built by the same manufacturer. Insurance costs have increased substantially in recent years and could increase further for any number of reasons. In particular, the cost of in-orbit insurance may increase based on the failure or degradation of one of our in-orbit satellites, the failure of another satellite of a similar series owned by another operator, or satellite failures in general. If rates were to rise substantially, our operating costs would increase. In addition, developments in the insurance market, including increasing costs, the scope of insurance exclusions and limitations on the nature of the losses for which we can obtain insurance, as well as other business reasons, may cause us to conclude that it does not make business sense to obtain third-party insurance and may cause us to decide to pursue other strategies for mitigating the risk of a satellite failure. It is also possible that insurance could become unavailable, either generally or for a specific launch vehicle, satellite series, or a particular satellite, or that new insurance could be subject to broader exclusions on coverage. Because our NSS-8 payments will depend on such satellite’s successful in-orbit performance, we do not intend to procure traditional third-party insurance for NSS-8. In addition, our contract with Boeing for the NSS-8 satellite restricts our ability to procure traditional third-party insurance for NSS-8 in certain circumstances. The loss of customers, particularly our large customers, may reduce our future revenues and backlog. We may lose customers due to competition, consolidation, regulatory developments, business developments affecting our customers or their customers, or for other reasons. The top 10 purchasers of our services accounted for, in the aggregate, approximately 43% of our total revenues of $240.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. For the year ended December 31, 2005 revenues from our largest customers, Intelsat and its affiliates (including the COMSAT group, which Intelsat acquired in 2004 and which prior to Intelsat’s acquisition had been our largest customer), were $42.7 million, or 18% of our revenues. If we fail to maintain our relationships with our major customers, if we lose them and fail to replace them with other similar customers, or if we experience reduced demand from our major customers, it could result in a significant reduction in our profitability through the loss of revenues, the requirement to record additional costs to the extent that amounts due from these customers are considered uncollectable and, potentially, a reduction in backlog. More generally, our customers may fail to renew or may cancel their contracts with us, which could negatively affect future revenues, profitability and backlog. At times some of our customers may not honor their contractual commitments, which may cause us to incur costs to enforce the contracts and/or result in a reduction in our revenues and backlog. Generally, we provide services to governmental users through third parties. We estimate that we derived approximately one-third of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005 from customers where the ultimate end user of the service was a governmental entity. If we are not able to continue to secure government business due to increasing competition, changes in governments’ procurement policies and processes, or for other reasons, it may reduce our revenues. For a discussion of certain trends in the government services market, see “Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Revenue Drivers—Demand.” In many cases, we sell our services through third party resellers and service providers. Due to consolidation in the satellite industry, some of these resellers and service providers may be acquired by other companies, including by our competitors. This could adversely affect our ability to continue to sell services to these customers and to the end users whom they serve. Since our creation, we have expanded our customer base to include certain smaller entities, including newer 28 entrants in the telecommunications marketplace and customers in emerging markets. These types of customers generally pose a heightened credit risk, which could adversely affect the amount of write-offs of receivables and contractual defaults that we experience. Regulatory restrictions and the launch of new satellites, including government owned or sponsored satellites, may also affect our ability to retain our current customers and attract new customers. See “ Item 1A—Risk Factors—Risks Relating to Regulation.” Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act is likely to increase our operating expenses. If we fail to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our business could be materially adversely affected. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the New York Stock Exchange and other relevant bodies have required, and will require, changes to some of our corporate governance practices. These changes include developing financial and disclosure processes that satisfy Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We expect that these new rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more difficult, time consuming and costly. We also expect that these new rules and regulations could make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. These new rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and to attract and retain qualified executive officers. If we are unable to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules and regulations, our business could be materially adversely affected. The investment funds control us and may have conflicts of interest with us or you in the future, which could adversely affect our ability to engage in acquisitions, mergers and other strategic activities. As of December 31, 2005, the investment funds beneficially owned approximately 55% of our common stock and representatives of the investment funds occupied four of the eight seats on our board of directors. As a result, the investment funds have control over our decisions to enter into any corporate transaction and have the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of our board of directors or the equity holders regardless of whether or not other members of our board of directors or equity holders believe that any such transactions are in their own best interests. As discussed above, the investment funds entered into a voting agreement with SES Global whereby they agreed to vote in favor of the SES Transaction and, at the special meeting of shareholders, did vote in favor of the SES Transaction. If the SES Transaction does not close, the investment funds may continue to have control over us. The investment funds are in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. The investment funds may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as the investment funds continue to hold a majority of our outstanding common stock, the investment funds will be entitled to nominate a majority of our board of directors, and will have the ability to effectively control the vote in any election of directors. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange rules and qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. As a result, we employ governance practices that differ from those employed by companies that do not rely on exemptions from certain New York Stock Exchange rules. Because the investment funds control a majority of our outstanding common stock, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange corporate governance standards. Under the New York Stock Exchange rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by another company is a “controlled company” and may elect not to comply with certain New York Stock Exchange corporate governance requirements, including (1) the requirement that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors, (2) the requirement for a nominating/corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities, (3) the requirement for a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities and (4) the requirement for an annual performance evaluation of the nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees. We utilize these exemptions and, as a result, do not have a majority of independent directors and our nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees do not consist entirely of independent directors. Accordingly, you do not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of the New York Stock Exchange corporate governance 29 requirements. If the SES Transaction does not close, we may not have access to sufficient capital to maintain our satellite fleet or to pursue future growth opportunities. If the SES Transaction does not close and we choose to launch new or replacement satellites, it is possible that we may not have, or be able to obtain, the financing required to fund such procurements, including, among other factors, as a result of our substantial indebtedness. In addition, if the SES Transaction does not close and we subsequently choose to engage in any major business combination or similar strategic transaction, we may require significant external financing in connection with such a transaction. Depending on market conditions, investor perceptions of us, our substantial indebtedness and other factors, we may not be able to obtain capital on acceptable terms, in acceptable amounts, or at appropriate times to implement any such transaction. The loss of key employees could impede our ability to implement our business plan, which could adversely affect our financial performance and long- term growth. We rely on a number of key employees. Many of these key employees have been recruited away from their home countries to work in The Netherlands or in our other international offices and may intend to return to their home countries in the future. Our key employees have highly specialized skills and extensive experience in their respective fields, and their individual contributions to our operations may be difficult to replace due to the scarcity of candidates of comparable calibre and experience. Accordingly, the loss of some or all of these employees could adversely affect our ability to manage our operations and to execute our long-term business strategy. 30 Risks Related To Our Common Stock Future sales of our shares could depress the market price of our common stock. If the SES Transaction does not close, the market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of common stock in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. The market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decline. Securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market or potential conditions, could reduce the market price of our common stock in spite of our operating performance. In addition, our operating results could be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, or circumstances could arise which affect the closing of the SES Transaction or investors’ or analysts’ perceptions regarding the probability that the SES Transaction will close in a timely manner. The market price of our common stock could decrease significantly in response to any such developments. We are incorporated in Bermuda, and a significant portion of our assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for shareholders to enforce civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws. We are organized under the laws of Bermuda, and a significant portion of our assets are located outside the United States. It may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the United States against us in Bermuda, or in countries other than the United States where we have assets, based on the civil liability provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States. In addition, there is some doubt as to whether the courts of Bermuda and other countries would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States or would hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. We have been advised by our legal advisors in Bermuda that the United States and Bermuda do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any federal or state court in the United States based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on U.S. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in Bermuda. Similarly, those judgments may not be enforceable in countries other than the United States where we have assets. Provisions in our bye-laws and Bermuda law may discourage takeovers, which could affect the rights of holders of our common stock. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 250,000,000 shares of preferred stock without any further vote or action by the shareholders, in accordance with the provisions of our bye-laws. Since the preferred stock could be issued with liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to those of the common stock, the rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any such preferred stock. The issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Further, the provisions of our amended and restated bye-laws, including the ability of shareholders to remove directors only for cause, and of Bermuda law, could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us. In addition, a change of control of our company may be delayed or deterred as a result of our having restrictions on business combinations with interested shareholders and three classes of directors. Bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and may afford less protection to shareholders. Our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the United States. As a Bermuda company, we are governed by the Companies Act 1981. The Companies Act differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders, including the provisions relating to interested directors, mergers, amalgamations and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification of directors. Under Bermuda law, the duties of directors and officers of a company are generally owed to the company only. Shareholders of Bermuda companies generally do not have rights to take action against directors or officers of the company, and may only do so in limited circumstances. Officers of a Bermuda company must, in exercising their 31 powers and performing their duties, act honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the company and must exercise the care and skill that a reasonably prudent person would exercise in comparable circumstances. Directors have a duty not to put themselves in a position in which their duties to the company and their personal interests may conflict and also are under a duty to disclose any personal interest in any contract or arrangement with the company or any of its subsidiaries. If a director or officer of a Bermuda company is found to have breached his duties to that company, he may be held personally liable to the company in respect of that breach of duty. A director may be liable jointly and severally with other directors if it is shown that the director knowingly engaged in fraud or dishonesty. In cases not involving fraud or dishonesty, the liability of the director will be determined by the Bermuda courts on the basis of their estimation of the percentage of responsibility of the director for the matter in question, in light of the nature of the conduct of the director and the extent of the causal relationship between his conduct and the loss suffered. In addition, our amended and restated bye-laws contain a broad waiver by our shareholders of any claim or right of action, both individually and on our behalf, against any of our officers or directors. The waiver applies to any action taken by an officer or director, or the failure of an officer or director to take any action, in the performance of his or her duties, except with respect to any matter involving any fraud or dishonesty on the part of the officer or director. This waiver limits the right of shareholders to assert claims against our officers and directors unless the act or failure to act involves fraud or dishonesty. Risks Relating to Our Industry Overcapacity and competition in the satellite industry and among terrestrial competitors may adversely affect our ability to sell our services, exert downward pressure on prices, or both. While we believe that capacity on different satellites or satellite systems can be distinguished from other satellite capacity in some respects, the provision of satellite-based capacity and services is subject to downward price pressure when the supply of this capacity exceeds demand. The supply of satellite capacity has increased and may continue to increase for a number of reasons, including: • the launch of new satellites with higher power levels, enhanced connectivity, on-board switching or greater frequency re-use, each of which can lead to increased capacity and lower per-transponder costs; and • the implementation of new transmission technologies, such as improved signal compression, which can reduce the transponder capacity required to transmit a given amount of information. In addition, while satellite communications services and ground-based communications services are not perfect substitutes, we compete in certain markets and for certain services with providers of ground-based services. Where fiber optic networks or other ground-based high-capacity systems are available and capable of supporting a particular type of transmission with comparable service parameters (for example ease of installation, coverage, speed and quality of signal), that capacity is less expensive than satellite capacity. Further expansions in the reach of terrestrial-based networks may induce our customers to shift their transmissions to non-satellite capacity or make it more difficult for us to obtain new customers, thereby adversely affecting our current and future revenues. Similarly, over-capacity and competition in the satellite industry may make it more difficult for us to sell our services and to maintain our prices for the capacity that we do sell. This, in turn, could adversely affect our revenues and profitability and our ability to increase our revenues and profitability over time. See “ Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Management Overview—Revenue Drivers” and “ Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Management Overview—Effects of Revenue Drivers on New Skies.” Demand for satellite services, including bundled services, may not develop in the manner we anticipate, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Demand for satellite-based transmission services may not grow, or may even shrink, either generally or in particular geographic markets, for particular types of services, or during particular time periods. A lack of demand could adversely affect our ability to sell our services and to develop and successfully market new services, could 32 exert downward pressure on prices, or both. This, in turn, could adversely affect our revenues and profitability and our ability to increase our revenues and profitability over time. In addition, demand patterns typically shift over time. For example, in recent years there has been a trend toward shorter-duration contracts, particularly for certain types of services (such as Internet-related services and government services). Shorter-duration contracts make it more difficult to maintain and increase our contractual backlog of future service commitments and may make it more difficult to maintain and increase our revenues over time. Some of our competitors have greater resources than we do, which may make them better able to compete in terms of pricing, service offerings, marketing, name recognition, product development or otherwise, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The satellite services industry is highly competitive. We compete with a number of established service providers, including global and regional satellite service providers, resellers of satellite capacity, and other service providers. Some of our competitors have long-standing customer relationships; enjoy close ties with regulatory authorities or more favorable regulatory treatment; and/or have the ability to subsidize competitive services with revenues from services they provide as a dominant or monopoly carrier. Many of them are substantially larger than we are and have financial resources, marketing and product development capabilities and name recognition that are substantially greater than ours. As a result, they may have a competitive advantage over us. Changes in technology could make our business obsolete, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Continuing technological changes in the telecommunications industry could undermine our competitive position or make our satellite system obsolete, either generally or for particular types of services. Particular technological developments that could adversely affect us include the deployment by our competitors of new satellites with greater power, greater flexibility, greater efficiency or greater capabilities, as well as continuing improvements in ground-based wired and wireless technologies. We face business risks arising from the content of some transmissions over our satellites, which could affect our ability to obtain and maintain necessary regulatory authorizations and, consequently, adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and customer relationships. We provide satellite capacity to third parties, who use the capacity to transmit communications signals or provide the capacity to other entities who use it to transmit communications signals. We do not decide what content is transmitted over our satellites, although we have contractual rights to prohibit certain types of content. To date, on a limited number of occasions, a governmental body or other entity has objected to some of the content carried over our satellites, such as “adult services” video channels or certain controversial politicized content. In addition, we understand that governmental bodies in the past have contacted certain other satellite operators objecting to content that they believe contains messages that advocate or glorify terrorism. We do not know whether this practice will continue and, if so, whether it will expand. It is possible that, in the future, some governments may include content-based restrictions in our market access authorizations, may require us to terminate a service based on its content or may seek to impose civil or criminal penalties on us based on the content of transmissions carried over our satellites. Issues arising from the content of transmissions over our satellites could affect our future revenues, backlog, costs, or our relationship with certain governments or customers. We face tax, contractual, payment and other risks in operating our business globally, each of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face certain risks as a result of the global nature of our business. Certain countries may impose withholding taxes on us or on our customers or deem us to have a permanent establishment in their country. These taxes may make our services more expensive for customers or impose an unanticipated tax burden upon us. In addition, such tax burdens may not be imposed equally on our competitors and may not be alleviated or subject to appeal under existing tax treaties. In particular, the government of India has characterized payments made by Indian-based customers and certain payments made by non-resident customers in India as “royalty payments” and has assessed taxes on these payments. In accordance with applicable procedures for handling disputed tax assessments, 33 we have informed the Indian authorities that we disagree with the assessment and applied to defer payment pending our administrative appeal of the assessment. While our initial appeal has been recently rejected, we have further appealed this matter. We may also need to make payments for interest or penalties that may be assessed in the interim.. The next hearing is scheduled for April 2006. We anticipate that this appeal process will be lengthy. In addition to tax risks, we may also face difficulties in enforcing our contracts in certain countries. Finally, while our contracts generally are denominated in U.S. dollars, and therefore are not sensitive to our customer’s local currency exchange fluctuations, in some countries economic conditions and currency transfer restrictions may make it difficult for some of our customers to meet their payment obligations or to make payments in U.S. dollars. We may not be able to take advantage of, or may be made less competitive as a result of, industry consolidation. The satellite sector is undergoing a renewed wave of consolidation, with the announced merger of Intelsat and PanAmSat and our announced merger with SES Global. If the SES Transaction is not consummated, we may pursue acquisitions, joint ventures or other strategic transactions on an opportunistic basis. Our principal focus is likely to be on the acquisition of, or strategic combination with, another satellite operator as and when suitable opportunities arise. Under appropriate circumstances, we also would consider acquiring rights to use additional orbital locations or frequencies, additional individual in-orbit satellites, transponders on existing in-orbit satellites, or other established facilities and components necessary for the provision of bundled services. However, we may not find or be able to take advantage of any suitable opportunities. If we do pursue acquisitions, joint ventures or other strategic transactions, we may face costs and risks arising from any transaction, including in integrating a new business into our business or in managing a joint venture. These may include legal, organizational, financial and other costs and risks. In addition, industry consolidation, including the PanAmSat-Intelsat merger, could adversely affect us by increasing the scale or scope of our competitors and thereby making it more difficult for us to compete. Risks Relating to Regulation Our rights to use the orbital locations from which our satellites operate are subject to regulation at the national and international levels and could be modified, restricted or terminated by national or international regulatory bodies, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. There are a limited number of orbital locations in space from which one can operate the type of satellites that we operate. Rights to make use of these orbital locations, and the frequencies over which commercial satellites transmit, are regulated by the ITU. For the frequencies that we use, most of the remaining orbital locations are either already in use or other countries have obtained the rights to use those locations. In addition, the ITU periodically reviews its rules and we cannot guarantee that the ITU will not change its rules in the future in a way that could limit or preclude our use of some or all of our existing or future orbital locations or frequencies. See “Item 1—Description of Business—Government Regulation—International Telecommunication Union.” The government of The Netherlands has authorized us to make use of the orbital locations and frequencies that we use for our existing satellites, as well as certain frequencies at one additional orbital location. However, it may modify or revoke this authorization, or subject us to new regulatory requirements. A modification or revocation could limit or preclude our use of some or all of our in-use or presently unoccupied orbital locations or some or all of the frequencies we currently use at these orbital locations, or affect our ability to launch replacement satellites as and when needed. Any loss of our rights to use one or more of our existing orbital locations, or any limitation that made it commercially infeasible to continue operations at the orbital location(s) in question, would adversely affect our revenues and profitability and the value of our business. The imposition of new regulatory requirements could increase our costs and, as a result, adversely affect our profitability. With respect to the primary frequencies used by commercial geostationary satellites, the ITU rules grant rights to member states (which are the national governments party to the ITU treaty) on a “first-in-time, first-in-right” basis and set forth a process for protecting earlier-registered satellite systems from interference from later-registered satellite systems. In order to comply with these rules, we must coordinate the operation of our satellites, including any replacement satellite that has performance characteristics that are different from or exceed those of the satellite it replaces, with other satellites. The coordination process may require us to modify our proposed coverage areas, or satellite design or transmission plans, in order to eliminate or minimize interference with other satellites or ground-based facilities. Those modifications may mean that our use of a particular orbital position is restricted, possibly to the extent that it may not be commercially desirable to place a new satellite in that location. In certain 34 countries, a failure to resolve coordination issues is used by regulators as a justification to limit or condition market access by foreign satellite operators. In addition, while the ITU’s rules oblige later-in-time systems to coordinate their operations with us, we cannot guarantee that other operators will conduct their operations so as to avoid transmitting any signals that would cause harmful interference to the signals that we, or our customers, transmit. We are subject to regulatory and licensing requirements in each of the countries in which we provide services, and our business is sensitive to regulatory changes in those countries. Regulatory changes could adversely affect our ability to provide services in certain markets and our business, financial condition and results of operations. The satellite business is heavily regulated. In particular, we are subject to and need to comply with the laws and regulations of the European Union, The Netherlands, the United States and the national and local governments of other countries to, from, or within which we provide services. In addition, while many countries permit competition, some countries continue to have laws and regulations that may impede or prohibit foreign service providers from entering their markets. These laws and regulations affect our ability to use frequencies and to provide satellite capacity and some or all satellite-based services in specific regions, or to particular types of customers in a given jurisdiction. In addition, the laws, regulations, policies and practices of some countries, including in some high-growth markets such as India and Kazakhstan, make or in the future may make it harder for us to compete against a domestic or regional satellite system from that country, and other countries with domestic satellite systems may adopt restrictive laws, regulations and practices in the future. Obtaining and maintaining the required regulatory approvals involves significant time and expense. Our inability to obtain and maintain particular approvals may delay or prevent our ability to offer some or all of our services and adversely affect our revenues. Generally, once we have received a regulatory authorization, we need an additional authorization only if we introduce new services or place a new or replacement satellite into operation. However, countries may adopt new laws, policies or regulations, or change their interpretation of existing laws, policies or regulations, and these changes could occur at any time. Such changes may make it more difficult for us to obtain, maintain, or renew authorizations, cause our existing authorizations to be cancelled, require us to incur additional costs, or otherwise adversely affect our operations, revenues and profitability. Under our authorization to provide services in one of the countries from which we derive a material portion of our revenues, the government has reserved for itself the right to cancel our market access in the future. If our market access to this country were cancelled, it would adversely affect our revenues, backlog and profitability. In addition, our ability to provide services in India, Kazakhstan and Russia are subject, in certain cases, to governmental approvals granted to our customers and to a preference (in each case) for the country’s national satellite operator, ISRO (in the case of India), KazSat (in the case of Kazakhstan) and RSCC (in the case of Russia). ISRO and RSCC operate existing satellite systems, and in the fourth quarter of 2005 ISRO expanded its system with the launch of an additional satellite. KazSat intends to launch its first satellite in mid 2006. These satellites compete with our satellites and as they are placed into service it has become, and we anticipate it will continue to be, more difficult for us to sell certain services, especially Ku-band services, in India and Kazakhstan and to renew services we currently are providing. In addition, we may face terminations of existing services from our customers in Kazakhstan as a result of a governmental directive stating that certain services must be moved to the KazSat satellite following its launch. Kazakhstan and Russia are not members of the World Trade Organization (WTO) and thus do not have any enforceable market access commitments. Export control and embargo laws may preclude us from obtaining necessary satellites, parts or data or providing certain services in the future. Restrictions on our ability to obtain necessary satellites, parts or data, or in providing certain services, could adversely affect our ability to operate our satellites, acquire and launch new satellites, and obtain and pursue our rights under insurance policies. U.S. companies and companies located in the United States must comply with U.S. export control laws in connection with any information, products, or materials that they provide to us relating to satellites, associated equipment and data and with the provision of related services. If these entities cannot or do not obtain the necessary export or re-export authorizations from the United States government, we must obtain such authorizations ourselves. It is possible that, in the future, they and we may not be able to obtain and maintain the necessary authorizations, or existing authorizations could be revoked. If our manufacturers and we cannot obtain and maintain the necessary authorizations, this failure could adversely affect our ability to: • procure new U.S.-manufactured satellites; 35 • control our existing satellites; • acquire launch services; • obtain insurance and pursue our rights under insurance policies; or • conduct our satellite-related operations. We must comply with Dutch and E.U. embargo laws. In addition, some of our subsidiaries, employees and services are subject to the embargo laws of other jurisdictions, including the United States. This may adversely affect our ability to provide satellite-based services to entities in countries subject to an embargo. In addition, if we do not properly manage our internal compliance processes and were to violate U.S. export laws, the terms of an export authorization, or embargo laws, the violation could make it more difficult, or even impossible, to maintain or obtain licenses and could result in civil or criminal penalties. Available Information We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and, in accordance therewith, file reports and other information with the SEC. Such reports and other information can be inspected and copied at the Public Reference Room of the SEC located at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of such material can be obtained from the Public Reference Room of the SEC at prescribed rates. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Such material may also be accessed electronically by means of the SEC’s home page on the Internet at http://www.sec.gov. You may also obtain a free copy of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports on the day of filing with the SEC through our website on the Internet at http://www.newskies.com You can also access the Company’s corporate governance guidelines, code of ethics and charters for each of our board committees through our Internet site, http://www.newskies.com, by clicking on the “Corporate Governance” link under the heading “Investor Relations.” We will post any amendments to the Code of Ethics, and any waivers that are required to be disclosed by the rules of either the SEC or the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. (“NYSE”), on our Internet site. The information on the Company’s Internet site is not incorporated by reference into this report. You can request a copy of our code of ethics and any other corporate governance documents and periodic reports at no cost by contacting Investor Relations at investor_relations@newskies.com. 36 