ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMPANY AND OUR BUSINESS We have a history of losses and may continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. With the exception of net income in fiscal 2010 resulting from a non-recurring event, we have incurred operating losses since our inception in 2000. We do not currently have any assured sources of revenues. Although Alimera is selling ILUVIEN for chronic DME in the U.K. and Germany, with plans to launch in France and Portugal in late 2014, and also has marketing authorization in 6 other EU countries, we do not know the timing and extent of any revenues we may receive from sales of ILUVIEN for chronic DME in the EU, if any. We do not know whether we will receive the one-time $25.0 million milestone payment to which we would be entitled if the FDA approves ILUVIEN, nor the timing or extent of revenues we might receive from sales in the U.S., if any. We receive royalties from Bausch & Lomb’s sales of Retisert, but we do not expect those royalties to increase to a level sufficient to sustain our operations and they may decline. Our ability to achieve profitability is expected to depend, among other things, upon Alimera’s ability to achieve FDA approval of and to successfully commercialize ILUVIEN and our or any other licensees’ ability to achieve regulatory approval and sufficient revenues from commercialization of one or more other products. We expect to need additional capital resources to fund our operations, and our ability to obtain them is uncertain. With the exception of net income in fiscal year 2010 resulting from a non-recurring event, we have incurred operating losses each year since inception, and at June 30, 2014, we had a total accumulated deficit of $277.0 million. During the past three fiscal years, we financed our operations primarily from sales of equity, as well as operating cash flows from license fees, research and development funding and royalty income from our collaboration partners. We believe that our capital resources of $18.3 million at June 30, 2014, together with expected cash inflows under existing collaboration agreements, should enable us to fund our operations as currently planned through the third quarter of calendar year 2015. This does not include either the potential milestone or any net profits payments under the Alimera collaboration agreement. Our ability to fund our planned operations beyond that date, including completion of clinical development of Medidur, is expected to depend on the amount and timing of cash receipts under our Alimera collaboration agreement, as well as proceeds from any future collaboration or other agreements and/or financing transactions. If we receive the one-time $25.0 million milestone payment from Alimera that would be due if the FDA approves ILUVIEN, we believe our capital resources and other expected cash inflows will fund our operations as currently planned into calendar 2017. Whether we will require, or desire, to raise additional capital will be influenced by many factors, including, but not limited to: • whether and when we receive the one-time $25.0 million milestone from Alimera to which we would be entitled if the FDA approves ILUVIEN; • whether, when and to what extent we receive other revenues from Alimera with respect to the commercialization of ILUVIEN; • the timing and cost of development of Medidur for posterior uveitis; • whether and to what extent we internally fund, when we initiate, and how we conduct other product development and programs, including Tethadur applications; • whether and when we initiate Phase II clinical trials for the Latanoprost Product and whether and when Pfizer exercises its option; • whether and when we enter into strategic arrangements for our product candidates and the nature of those arrangements; 18 Table of Contents • timely and successful development, regulatory approval and commercialization of our products and product candidates; • the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining, defending and enforcing any patent claims; and • changes in our operating plan, resulting in increases or decreases in our need for capital. We believe that extending our cash position beyond the third quarter of calendar year 2015 depends significantly on receipt of the one-time $25.0 million milestone to which we would be entitled on an FDA approval of ILUVIEN and the successful commercialization by Alimera of ILUVIEN for DME that would provide us with our share of net profits receipts. There is no assurance that ILUVIEN for DME will be approved by the FDA in the U.S. or that Alimera will be able to make the milestone payment if ILUVIEN is approved. In April 2014, Alimera entered into a term loan agreement with Hercules Technology Growth Capital (Hercules) under which Hercules agreed to advance $25.0 million to Alimera to fund the milestone payment obligation if the FDA approves ILUVIEN on or before October 31, 2014 and certain other conditions are satisfied. Alimera has reported that due to the limited revenue generated by ILUVIEN to date, it may not be able to maintain compliance with certain covenants under its loan agreement. There is no assurance that Alimera will have the funds to pay the milestone payment when due. Further, there is no assurance that ILUVIEN for chronic DME will achieve market acceptance in any country in the EU, or, if ILUVIEN is approved in the U.S., Australia or New Zealand, or that we will receive significant, if any, revenues from ILUVIEN. If we determine that it is desirable or necessary to raise additional capital in the future, we do not know if it will be available when needed or on terms favorable to us or our stockholders. The state of the economy and the financial and credit markets at the time or times we seek any additional financing may make it more difficult and more expensive to obtain. If available, additional equity financing may be dilutive to stockholders, debt financing may involve restrictive covenants or other unfavorable terms and potential dilutive equity, and funding through collaboration agreements may be on unfavorable terms, including requiring us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies or products. If adequate financing is not available if and when needed, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate research or development programs, postpone or cancel the pursuit of product candidates, including pre-clinical and clinical trials and new business opportunities, reduce staff and operating costs or otherwise significantly curtail our operations to reduce our cash requirements and extend our capital. If the recorded value of our intangible assets under GAAP is further impaired, our financial results could be materially adversely affected. We recorded significant amounts of intangible assets in connection with earlier acquisitions. We took impairment charges of $3.1 million with respect to the value of our Durasert intangible asset and $11.7 million with respect to the value of our BioSilicon intangible asset as of December 31, 2011. We had $2.8 million of intangible assets on our balance sheet as of June 30, 2014, of which $1.9 million related to our Durasert technology and $912,000 related to our BioSilicon technology. We will continue to conduct impairment analyses of our intangible assets as required, and we would be required to take additional impairment charges in the future if any recoverability assessments of those assets reflect fair market values that are less than our recorded values, and such charges could be significant. The carrying values of our Durasert and BioSilicon technology systems could be impaired if there is a future triggering event, including, without limitation, adverse events with respect to clinical development, regulatory approval and success of commercialization of products using those technologies, and significant changes in our market capitalization. Further impairment charges on our intangible assets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Our operating results may fluctuate significantly from period to period. Our operating results have fluctuated significantly from period to period in the past and may continue to do so in the future due to many factors, including: • timing, receipt, amount and revenue recognition of payments, if any, from collaboration partners, including, without limitation, collaborative research and development, milestone, royalty, net profit and other payments; • execution, amendment and termination of collaboration agreements; • scope, duration and success of collaboration agreements; • amount of internally funded research and development costs, including pre-clinical studies and clinical trials; • general and industry-specific adverse economic conditions that may affect, among other things, our and our collaborators’ operations and financial results; and • changes in accounting estimates, policies or principles and intangible asset impairments. Due to fluctuations in our operating results, quarterly comparisons of our financial results may not necessarily be meaningful, and investors should not rely upon such results as an indication of future performance. In addition, investors may react adversely if our reported operating results are less favorable than in a prior period or are less favorable than those anticipated by investors in the financial community, which may result in decreases in our stock price. Our royalty income from Bausch & Lomb may decline. We do not expect that our Retisert royalty income from Bausch & Lomb will grow materially, if at all, and it may decline. There is no assurance that Bausch & Lomb will continue to market Retisert, which received marketing approval in 2005. Bausch & Lomb no longer markets Vitrasert. RISKS RELATED TO THE DEVELOPMENT AND COMMERCIALIZATION OF OUR PRODUCTS AND PRODUCT CANDIDATES If the FDA does not approve ILUVIEN for DME, Alimera will be unable to commercialize the product in the U.S., and we will not receive the payments to which we would be entitled upon such approval and from successful commercialization, which could materially impair our financial prospects. Alimera has received three CRLs from the FDA with respect to its NDA for ILUVIEN for DME in which the FDA stated that it was unable to approve the NDA in each instance in its then current form. Although Alimera again refiled the NDA in March 2014 following labeling discussions with the FDA in December 2013 and the FDA has set a new PDUFA goal date of September 26, 2014, there is no assurance that Alimera’s resubmission will demonstrate to the FDA that the benefits of ILUVIEN for DME outweigh its risks, that additional clinical trials will not be required, or that Alimera will be able to obtain FDA approval for ILUVIEN for DME in the U.S. Accordingly, ILUVIEN for DME may never be approved and marketed in the U.S., in which case we would not receive the milestone payment to which we would be entitled on FDA approval or any revenues from U.S. commercialization, which would be materially adverse to our business. Further, studies of ILUVIEN for the treatment of three other eye diseases have been discontinued and we do not know whether Alimera will continue to seek to develop, or receive approval from the FDA or other regulatory agencies for, ILUVIEN for the treatment of other eye conditions included under Alimera’s agreement with us. Sales of ILUVIEN for DME may be materially adversely affected by pricing and reimbursement decisions of regulatory bodies, insurers and others. Prices, coverage and reimbursement to consumers of the price of ILUVIEN in EU countries are generally regulated by third-party payors, such as government health administration authorities and plans, private health 20 Table of Contents insurers and other organizations. Consumers are also affected by the timing and complexity of those reimbursements. Prices are generally lower and coverage and access to drugs more limited than in the U.S., which has and is expected to continue to affect our potential revenues from the commercialization of ILUVIEN for chronic DME in the EU. There is no assurance as to what level of governmental pricing and reimbursement will be permitted in various EU countries. For example, in the U.K. and Scotland, NHS reimbursement is limited to the treatment of pseudophakic eyes. Similarly, there is no assurance that Alimera will achieve satisfactory agreements with statutory insurers in other countries to streamline reimbursement. We do not know what levels of pricing will be approved in other EU countries, or what restrictions will be placed on the use or reuse of ILUVIEN. Further, if ILUVIEN were approved in the U.S., we do not know what restrictions will be put on its use or what level of pricing will be reimbursed. Future sales of ILUVIEN may be adversely affected by pricing and reimbursement decisions, and such effects may be material. Alimera’s expansion of its commercial infrastructure in the EU is a significant undertaking that requires substantial financial and managerial resources, and Alimera may not be successful in its efforts, or it may encounter unexpected delays in connection with its continued expansion, which may negatively impact its efforts to market and sell ILUVIEN. Alimera also could fail to successfully manage its international operations, which could materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our financial results depend heavily on Alimera’s ability to successfully commercialize ILUVIEN in the EU. ILUVIEN for chronic DME has marketing authorization in ten EU countries and is pending authorization in seven more EU countries. Alimera launched ILUVIEN in the United Kingdom and Germany in April and May of 2013, respectively, and currently plans to launch ILUVIEN in Portugal and France in late 2014, but has not announced commercialization plans for the other EU countries where it has or has sought marketing approval. A commercial launch of this size is a significant undertaking that requires substantial financial and managerial resources. Alimera may not be able to maintain and expand its commercial operation in a cost-effective manner or realize a positive return on its investments, which could negatively impact its ability to market and sell ILUVIEN. Factors that may inhibit Alimera’s efforts to commercialize ILUVIEN include: • Alimera’s inability to expand its sales and marketing infrastructure, to grow its organization or to manage its growth, including integrating any personnel hired through Quintiles Commercial or similar organizations; • Alimera’s inability to recruit and retain adequate numbers of effective personnel; • the inability of Alimera’s sales personnel to obtain access to or persuade adequate numbers of ophthalmologists to prescribe ILUVIEN; • the lack of complementary products to be offered by Alimera’s sales personnel, which may put Alimera at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more extensive product lines; • the inability of Alimera’s market access personnel to obtain sufficient levels of pricing and reimbursement in each jurisdiction; or • unforeseen costs and expenses associated with creating a commercial organization in the EU. Additionally, Alimera may encounter unforeseen delays in expanding its commercial operations that delay the commercial launch in one or more EU countries in which ILUVIEN has received or been recommended for marketing authorization. These delays may increase the cost of and the resources required for successful commercialization of ILUVIEN in the EU. Alimera does not have experience in a commercial operation of this size in the EU or elsewhere. Alimera has limited international commercialization experience and international operations require significant management attention and financial resources. In addition, there are many risks inherent in international business activities, including, but not limited to: • extended collection timelines for accounts receivable and greater working capital requirements; • multiple legal systems and unexpected changes in legal requirements; 21 Table of Contents • tariffs, export restrictions, trade barriers and other regulatory or contractual limitations on Alimera’s ability to sell or develop ILUVIEN in certain foreign markets; • trade laws and business practices favoring local competition; • potential tax issues, including restrictions on repatriating earnings, multiple and conflicting and complex tax laws and regulations; • weaker intellectual property protection in some countries; • political instability, including war and terrorism or the threat of war and terrorism; or • adverse economic conditions, including the stability and solvency of business financial markets, financial institutions and sovereign nations. In addition, compliance with foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that are applicable to Alimera’s international operations is complex and may increase Alimera’s cost of doing business in international jurisdictions, and Alimera’s international operations could expose Alimera to fines and penalties if Alimera fails to comply with these laws and regulations. These laws and regulations include import and export requirements and anti-bribery laws. Any violations of these laws or regulations could subject Alimera to civil or criminal penalties, including substantial fines or prohibitions on Alimera’s ability to offer ILUVIEN in one or more countries, which could materially and adversely harm our business and financial condition. If Alimera does not develop an effective marketing strategy, or if it is not successful in recruiting and retaining personnel or in expanding its sales and marketing infrastructure and entering into additional collaboration arrangements with third parties, or if it encounters delays or other difficulties in commercializing ILUVIEN, it would adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We do not know if and when we will receive revenues from any commercialization of ILUVIEN for DME and the extent of those revenues. There is no assurance if and when, and to what extent, we will receive revenues from the commercialization of ILUVIEN for DME. Because we are entitled to a net profit participation on a country-by-country and quarter-by-quarter basis on sales of ILUVIEN where Alimera markets ILUVIEN directly and to a percentage of royalties and non-royalty consideration where Alimera sublicenses the marketing of ILUVIEN, the amount and timing of any revenues we receive will be affected by the manner in which Alimera determines to market ILUVIEN. We cannot project what the demand will be for ILUVIEN for DME or when, or if, it will achieve net profits in countries where Alimera markets it. Alimera has announced its intention to market ILUVIEN directly in certain EU countries and, if approved by the FDA, in the U.S. Although Alimera commercially launched ILUVIEN for chronic DME in the U.K. and Germany during the quarter ended June 2013, Alimera has reported that it has not achieved net profits in either country. Alimera has announced its intention to launch ILUVIEN in France and Portugal in late 2014 and to launch in the U.S. in early 2015 if the FDA approves ILUVIEN, but has not announced commercialization plans for the other EU countries where it has or has sought marketing approval. Alimera has no prior experience in commercializing products. There is no assurance that Alimera will be able to build and manage a successful commercial operation in the EU or the U.S. or that it will have sufficient capital to do so. Alimera has signed a distribution agreement with STA for ILUVIEN in Australia and New Zealand. We do not know when or if STA will achieve a public reimbursement listing for ILUVIEN entitling Alimera to a milestone in which we would share, or when or if there will be net sales entitling Alimera to royalties in which we would share. 22 Table of Contents The micro-insert for ILUVIEN and Medidur delivers FAc, a corticosteroid that has adverse side effects in the eye, which may affect the approvability and success of this micro-insert for treatment of DME, posterior uveitis and other eye diseases. The micro-insert for both ILUVIEN and Medidur delivers the non-proprietary corticosteroid FAc, which is associated with adverse side effects in the eye, such as cataract formation and elevated IOP, which may increase the risk of glaucoma and related surgery to manage those side effects. In the 2011 and 2013 CRLs, the FDA stated that the risks of adverse reactions shown for ILUVIEN in the FAME Study were significant and were not offset by the benefits demonstrated in those clinical trials. These side effects may affect the approvability of ILUVIEN for DME in certain jurisdictions. Although FDA-approved Retisert and our product candidate Medidur both deliver FAc to treat posterior uveitis, there is no assurance that Medidur will be safe and efficacious for the treatment of posterior uveitis in light of its expected side effects from FAc. Even if ILUVIEN and Medidur are approved, these side effects may limit the population for which marketing authorization is granted or for which reimbursement is provided and/or adversely affect sales of the product. For example, NHS reimbursement for ILUVIEN for chronic DME in the U.K. and Scotland is limited to eyes that have undergone cataract surgery. There is no assurance that we will be able to seek FDA approval of Medidur based on one Phase III trial together with a utilization study, and if we are required to conduct an additional Phase III trial, the time and expense required to obtain U.S. regulatory approval would increase. If the results of our current Phase III trial are positive, and if the FDA approves ILUVIEN for DME, we plan to seek FDA approval on the basis of this single Phase III trial together with additional clinical data from a planned open label study on use of our proprietary inserter. However, we may need to complete two Phase III trials to obtain FDA approval, which would extend the time for filing an NDA and, accordingly, any regulatory approval of Medidur, and would also increase the cost of its development prior to approval. There is no assurance that Medidur will be found to be safe and effective for the treatment of posterior uveitis We are optimistic that Medidur will be as efficacious for posterior uveitis as Retisert is, but with a better side effect profile than Retisert, comparable to ILUVIEN. However, this is only a hypothesis, and there is no assurance that the ongoing Phase III program or investigator-sponsored study for Medidur will demonstrate these results. While early interim data from the investigator-sponsored study of Medidur are consistent with this hypothesis, that trial is not complete, involves only up to 12 patients and is not intended to be a clinical trial that can serve as the basis for approval of Medidur. Data from the Retisert and ILUVIEN trials and early data from this investigator-sponsored study may not accurately predict the results of our Medidur Phase III trial(s). There is no assurance that the clinical trial or trials for Medidur will provide the necessary evidence of safety and efficacy required for approval by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. Actions by the FDA and other regulatory authorities with respect to Retisert and ILUVIEN are not predictive of the FDA’s action with respect to Medidur. There is no assurance that Pfizer will exercise its option with respect to the Latanoprost Product, in which case we will not receive any further financial consideration under the Restated Pfizer Agreement. Development of the Latanoprost Product through at least Phase II clinical trials is at our own expense. Pfizer has an option for an exclusive, worldwide license to develop and commercialize the Latanoprost Product upon our completion of Phase II clinical trials or upon our cessation of development of the Latanoprost Product at any time prior to completion of those trials. There is no assurance that we will commence or complete Phase II clinical trials for the Latanoprost Product; that if completed, the trials will be successful; that Pfizer will, in any event, exercise its option; that if exercised, Pfizer will commence Phase III clinical trials; or that the Latanoprost Product will achieve successful Phase III trial results, regulatory approvals or commercial success. As a result, there is no assurance that we will receive any further licensing, milestone or royalty payments under the Restated Pfizer Agreement. 23 Table of Contents If we or our licensees are unable to or do not complete clinical trials for our product candidates or do not receive the necessary regulatory approvals, we or our licensees will be unable to commercialize our product candidates. Marketing and manufacture of pharmaceutical products is subject to stringent regulation by applicable governmental authorities. Generally, in order to obtain marketing approval, pre-clinical studies and clinical trials must demonstrate that a product candidate is safe for human use and effective for its targeted disease or condition. ILUVIEN for DME has completed pivotal clinical trials, which were conducted pursuant to our Alimera collaboration agreement, and a pivotal Phase III trial of Medidur for posterior uveitis is ongoing. All of our other product development is at earlier stages. Product development at all stages involves a high degree of risk, and only a small proportion of research and development programs result in product candidates that advance to pivotal clinical trials or to approved products. There is no assurance that any feasibility study agreements we have, or enter into, with third parties will result in any product candidates or licenses, or that we or our licensees will commence or continue clinical trials for any of our product candidates. If clinical trials conducted by or for us or our licensees for any of our product candidates do not provide the necessary evidence of safety and efficacy, those product candidates cannot be manufactured and sold, and will not generate revenues. Initial or subsequent clinical trials may not be initiated by or for us or our licensees for product candidates or may be delayed or fail due to many factors, including the following: • decisions by parties evaluating our technologies not to pursue development of products with us; • our (or our licensees’) lack of sufficient funding to pursue trials rapidly or at all; • our (or our licensees’) inability to attract clinical investigators for trials; • our (or our licensees’) inability to recruit patients in sufficient numbers or at the expected rate; • our inability to fund and undertake, or to find or reach agreement with licensees to fund and undertake, clinical trials; • decisions by licensees not to exercise options for products or not to pursue products licensed to them; • adverse side effects; • failure of trials to demonstrate a product candidate’s safety and efficacy; • our (or our licensees’) failure to meet FDA or other regulatory agency requirements for clinical trial design, or inadequate clinical trial design; • our (or our licensees’) inability to follow patients adequately after treatment; • changes in the design or manufacture of a product; • failures by, changes in our (or our licensees’) relationship with, or other issues at, contract research organizations, third-party vendors and investigators responsible for pre-clinical testing and clinical trials; • our (or our licensees’) inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of materials for use in clinical trials; • stability issues with clinical materials; • failure to comply with current good laboratory practices (GLP), good clinical practices (GCP), cGMP or similar foreign regulatory requirements that affect the conduct of pre-clinical and clinical studies and the manufacturing of products; • requests by regulatory authorities for additional data or clinical trials; • governmental or regulatory agency assessments of pre-clinical or clinical testing that differ from our (or our licensees’) interpretations or conclusions that product candidates meet quality standards for stability, quality, purity and potency; 24 Table of Contents • governmental or regulatory delays, or changes in approval policies or regulations; and • developments, clinical trial results and other factors with respect to competitive products and treatments. Results from pre-clinical testing and early clinical trials often do not accurately predict results of later clinical trials. Data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical activities are susceptible to varying interpretations, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Data from pre-clinical studies, early clinical trials and interim periods in multi-year trials are preliminary and may change, and final data from pivotal trials for such products may differ significantly. Adverse side effects may develop that delay, limit or prevent the regulatory approval of products, or cause such regulatory approvals to be limited or even rescinded. Additional trials necessary for approval may not be undertaken or may ultimately fail to establish the safety and efficacy of our product candidates. The FDA or other relevant regulatory agencies may not approve our product candidates for manufacture and sale, and any approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by other regulatory agencies or vice versa (which could require us to comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements, possibly including additional clinical testing). Any product approvals we or our licensees achieve could also be withdrawn for failure to comply with regulatory standards or due to unforeseen problems after the products’ marketing approval. In either case, marketing efforts with respect to the affected product would have to cease. In addition, the FDA or other regulatory agencies may impose limitations on the indicated uses for which a product may be marketed, which may reduce the size of, or otherwise limit the potential market for, the product. In addition to testing, regulatory agencies impose various requirements on manufacturers and sellers of products under their jurisdiction, such as packaging, labeling, manufacturing practices, record keeping and reporting. Regulatory agencies may also require post-marketing testing and surveillance programs to monitor a product’s effects. Furthermore, changes in existing regulations or the adoption of new regulations could prevent us from obtaining, or affect the timing of, future regulatory approvals. We have a limited ability to develop and market products ourselves. If we are unable to find development or marketing partners, or our development or marketing partners do not successfully develop or market our products, we may be unable to effectively develop or market products on our own. Our strategy includes independently developing products, but we have limited product development capability and no marketing or sales staff. Developing products and achieving market acceptance for them requires extensive and substantial efforts by experienced personnel as well as expenditure of significant funds. We may not be able to establish or fund sufficient capabilities necessary to develop products and achieve market penetration ourselves. Our business strategy also includes entering into collaborative and licensing arrangements for the development and commercialization of our product candidates, where appropriate, and we currently have collaboration and/or licensing arrangements with various companies. The curtailment or termination of these arrangements with Alimera or Bausch & Lomb could adversely affect our business, our ability to develop and commercialize our products, product candidates and proposed products and our ability to fund operations. The success of these and future collaborative and licensing arrangements will depend heavily on the experience, resources, efforts and activities of our licensees. Our licensees have, and are expected to have, significant discretion in making decisions related to the development of product candidates and the commercialization of products under these collaboration agreements. Risks that we face in connection with our collaboration and licensing strategy include the following: • our collaborative and licensing arrangements are, and are expected to be, subject to termination under various circumstances, including on short notice and without cause; 25 Table of Contents • we are required, and expect to be required, under our collaborative and licensing arrangements not to conduct specified types of research and development in the field that is the subject of the arrangement or not to sell products in such field, limiting the areas of research, development and commercialization that we can pursue; • our licensees may develop and commercialize, either alone or with others, products that are similar to or competitive with our products; • our licensees may change the focus of their development and commercialization efforts or decrease or fail to increase spending related to our products or product candidates, thereby limiting the ability of these products to reach their potential; • our licensees may lack the funding, personnel or experience to develop and commercialize our products successfully or may otherwise fail to do so; and • our licensees may not perform their obligations, in whole or in part. To the extent that we seek to independently manufacture, market and sell products or are unable to enter into future license agreements with marketing and sales partners where we deem appropriate, we would experience increased capital requirements to develop the ability to manufacture, market and sell future products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manufacture, market or sell our products or future products independently. Our current licensees may terminate their agreements with us at any time and, if they do, we will lose the benefits of those agreements and may not be able to develop and sell products currently licensed to them. Our licensees have rights of termination under our agreements with them. Exercise of termination rights by one or more of our licensees may leave us without the financial benefits and development, marketing or sales resources provided under the terminated agreement, which may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, our interests may not continue to coincide with those of our partners, and our partners may develop, independently or with third parties, products or technologies that could compete with our products. Further, we may disagree with our partners over the rights and obligations under those agreements, including ownership of technologies or other proprietary interests, noncompetition, payments or other issues, which could result in breach of the agreements, including related damages or injunctive relief or termination. For example, Alimera may abandon the development and commercialization of any licensed product, including ILUVIEN for DME, and Bausch & Lomb may terminate its license agreement with respect to Retisert without penalty at any time upon 90 days’ written notice. Any of our licensees may decide not to continue to develop, exercise options or commercialize products under their respective agreements, change strategic focus, or pursue alternatives to our technologies or develop competing products. While Bausch & Lomb has significant experience in the ophthalmic field and substantial resources, there is no assurance whether, and to what extent, that experience and those resources will be devoted to Retisert. Alimera has limited experience and limited financial resources, and ILUVIEN for DME is Alimera’s first and only commercial product. Actions, including breaches or termination of these agreements by our licensees, could delay, impair or stop the development or commercialization of any of the products or product candidates licensed to them or require significant additional capital investment by us, which we may not have the resources to fund. If products of our competitors receive regulatory approval or reach the market earlier, are more effective, have fewer side effects, are more effectively marketed or cost less, our products or product candidates may not be approved, may not achieve the sales we anticipate and could be rendered obsolete. We believe that pharmaceutical, drug delivery and biotechnology companies, research organizations, governmental entities, universities, hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and individual scientists are seeking 26 Table of Contents to develop drugs, therapies, products, approaches or methods to treat our targeted diseases or their underlying causes. For our targeted diseases, competitors have alternate therapies that are already commercialized or are in various stages of development, ranging from discovery to advanced clinical trials. Any of these drugs, therapies, products, approaches or methods may receive government approval or gain market acceptance more rapidly than our products and product candidates, may offer therapeutic or cost advantages, or may more effectively treat our targeted diseases or their underlying causes, which could result in our product candidates not being approved, reduce demand for our products and product candidates or render them noncompetitive or obsolete. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technological, research and development, marketing and personnel resources than we do. Our competitors may succeed in developing alternate technologies and products that, in comparison to the products we have and are seeking to develop: • are more effective and easier to use; • are more economical; • have fewer side effects; • offer other benefits; or • may otherwise render our products less competitive or obsolete. Many of these competitors have greater experience in developing products, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals or clearances and manufacturing and marketing products than we do. Our products and product candidates may not achieve and maintain market acceptance and may never generate significant revenues. In both domestic and foreign markets, the commercial success of our products and product candidates will require not only obtaining regulatory approvals, but also obtaining market acceptance by retinal specialists and other doctors, patients, government health administration authorities and other third-party payors. Whether and to what extent our products and product candidates achieve and maintain market acceptance will depend on a number of factors, including demonstrated safety and efficacy, cost-effectiveness, potential advantages over other therapies, our and our collaborative partners’ marketing and distribution efforts and the reimbursement policies of government and other third-party payors. In particular, if government and other third-party payors do not recommend our products and product candidates, limit the indications for which they are recommended, or do not provide adequate and timely coverage and reimbursement levels for our products, the market acceptance of our products and product candidates will be limited. Both government and other third-party payors attempt to contain healthcare costs by limiting coverage and the level of reimbursement for products and, accordingly, they may challenge the price and cost-effectiveness of our products, or refuse to provide coverage for our products. If our products and product candidates fail to achieve and maintain market acceptance, they may fail to generate significant revenues and our business may be significantly harmed. Guidelines, recommendations and studies published by various organizations could reduce the use of our products and product candidates. Government agencies, professional societies, practice management groups, private health and science foundations and organizations focused on various diseases may publish guidelines, recommendations or studies related to our products and product candidates or our competitors’ products. Any such guidelines, recommendations or studies that reflect negatively on our products or product candidates could result in decreased use, sales of, and revenues from one or more of our products and product candidates. Furthermore, our success depends in part on our and our partners’ ability to educate healthcare providers and patients about our products and product candidates, and these education efforts could be rendered ineffective by, among other things, third-parties’ guidelines, recommendations or studies. 27 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY We rely heavily upon patents and trade secrets to protect our proprietary technologies. If we fail to protect our intellectual property or infringe on others’ technologies, our ability to develop and market our products and product candidates may be compromised. Our success is dependent on whether we can obtain patents, defend our existing patents and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties. As of August 31, 2014, we had 229 patents and 115 pending patent applications, including patents and pending applications covering our Durasert, Tethadur and other technologies. Intellectual property protection of our technologies is uncertain. We expect to seek to patent and protect our proprietary technologies. However, there is no assurance that any additional patents will be issued to us as a result of our pending or future patent applications or that any of our patents will withstand challenges by others. In addition, we may not have sufficient funds to patent and protect our proprietary technologies to the extent that we would desire, or at all. If we were determined to be infringing any third-party patent, we could be required to pay damages, alter our products or processes, obtain licenses, pay royalties or cease certain operations. We may not be able to obtain any required licenses on commercially favorable terms, if at all. In addition, many foreign country laws may treat the protection of proprietary rights differently from, and may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as, laws in the United States and Patent Co-operation Treaty countries. Prior art may reduce the scope or protection of, or invalidate, our patents. Previously conducted research or published discoveries may prevent our patents from being granted, invalidate issued patents or narrow the scope of any protection obtained. Reduction in scope of protection or invalidation of our licensed or owned patents, or our inability to obtain patents, may enable other companies to develop products that compete with our products and product candidates on the basis of the same or similar technology. As a result, our patents and those of our licensors may not provide any, or sufficient, protection against competitors. While we have not been, and are not currently, involved in any litigation over intellectual property, such litigation may be necessary to enforce any patents issued or licensed to us or to determine the scope and validity of third party proprietary rights. We may also be sued by one or more third parties alleging that we infringe their intellectual property rights. Any intellectual property litigation would likely result in substantial costs to us and diversion of our efforts, and could prevent or delay our discovery or development of product candidates. If our competitors claim technology also claimed by us, and if they prepare and file patent applications in the U.S. or other jurisdictions, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or the appropriate foreign patent office to determine priority of invention, which could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our efforts. Any such litigation or interference proceedings, regardless of the outcome, could be expensive and time consuming. Litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, requiring disputed rights to be licensed from third parties and/or requiring us to cease using certain technologies. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and technology that are not protected by patents to maintain our competitive position. We try to protect this information by entering into confidentiality agreements with parties that have access to it, such as our corporate partners, collaborators, employees, and consultants. Any of these parties could breach these agreements and disclose our confidential information, or our competitors may learn of the information in some other way. If any material trade secret, know-how or other technology not protected by a patent were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor, our competitive position could be materially harmed. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS, INDUSTRY, STRATEGY AND OPERATIONS If we fail to retain key personnel, our business could suffer. We are dependent upon the principal members of our management and scientific staff. In addition, we believe that our future success in developing our products and achieving a competitive position may depend on whether we can attract and retain additional qualified management and scientific personnel. There is strong competition for management and scientific personnel within the industry in which we operate, and we may not be 28 Table of Contents able to attract and retain such personnel. As we have a small number of employees and we believe our products are unique and highly specialized, the loss of the services of one or more of the principal members of our management or scientific staff, or the inability to attract and retain additional personnel and develop expertise as needed, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we are subject to product liability suits, we may not have sufficient insurance to cover damages. The testing, manufacturing, and marketing and sale of the products utilizing our technologies involve risks that product liability claims may be asserted against us and/or our licensees. Our current clinical trial and product liability insurance may not be adequate to cover damages resulting from product liability claims. Regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims could require us to spend significant time, money and other resources to defend such claims, could result in decreased demand for our products and product candidates, or result in reputational harm, and could result in the payment of a significant damage award. Our product liability insurance coverage is subject to deductibles and coverage limitations and may not be adequate in scope to protect us in the event of a successful product liability claim. Further, we may not be able to acquire sufficient clinical trial or product liability insurance in the future on reasonable commercial terms, if at all. Consolidation in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries may adversely affect us. There has been consolidation in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. Consolidation could result in the remaining companies having greater financial resources and technological capabilities, thus intensifying competition, and fewer potential collaboration partners or licensees for our product candidates. In addition, if a consolidating company is already doing business with any of our competitors, we could lose existing or potential future licensees or collaboration partners as a result of such consolidation. If we or our licensees fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations, our or their ability to manufacture and commercialize products may be adversely affected. Medical and biopharmaceutical research and development involves the controlled use of hazardous materials, such as radioactive compounds and chemical solvents. We and our licensees are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations in the U.S. and abroad governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of such materials and waste products. We and they could be subject to both criminal liability and civil damages in the event of an improper or unauthorized release of, or exposure of individuals to, hazardous materials. In addition, claimants may sue us or them for resulting injury or contamination, and the liability may exceed our or their ability to pay. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations is expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair the research, development or production efforts of our company or our licensees and harm our operating results. If we or our licensees encounter problems with product manufacturing, there could be delays in product development or commercialization, which would adversely affect our future profitability. Our ability and that of our licensees to conduct timely pre-clinical and clinical research and development programs, obtain regulatory approvals, and develop and commercialize our product candidates will depend, in part, upon our and our licensees’ ability to manufacture our products and product candidates, either directly or through third parties, in accordance with FDA and other regulatory requirements. The manufacture, packaging and testing of our products and product candidates are regulated by the FDA and similar foreign regulatory entities and must be conducted in accordance with applicable cGMP and comparable foreign requirements. Any change in a manufacturing process or procedure used for one of our products or product candidates, including a change in the location at which a product or product candidate is being manufactured or in the third-party manufacturer being used, may require the FDA’s and similar foreign regulatory entities’ prior review and/or approval in accordance with applicable cGMP or other regulations. Additionally, the FDA and similar foreign regulatory entities may implement new standards, or change their interpretation and enforcement of existing standards, for the manufacture, packaging and testing of products at any time. 29 Table of Contents There are a limited number of manufacturers that operate under cGMP and other foreign regulations that are both capable of manufacturing our products and product candidates and are willing to do so. Alimera has contracted with individual third-party manufacturers for the manufacture for each of (i) the ILUVIEN implant; (ii) the ILUVIEN applicator; (iii) ILUVIEN’s active pharmaceutical ingredient; and (iv) the quality release testing of ILUVIEN in the EU. If any of Alimera’s third-party manufacturers breach their agreements or are unable or unwilling to perform for any reason, Alimera may not be able to locate alternative acceptable manufacturers, enter into favorable agreements with them or get them approved by the applicable regulatory authorities in a timely manner. Furthermore, all of these manufacturers rely on additional third parties for the manufacture of component parts. Any inability to acquire sufficient quantities of ILUVIEN implants, the ILUVIEN applicator or the active pharmaceutical ingredient in a timely manner from these third parties could delay commercial production of, and impact Alimera’s ability to fulfil any demand for, ILUVIEN, which, in turn, would impact our ability to receive our contractual share of net profits from the sales of ILUVIEN on a country-by-country basis. Failure by us, our collaborative partners, or our or their third-party manufacturers, to comply with applicable manufacturing requirements could result in sanctions being imposed on us or our collaborative partners, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our product candidates, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of product, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions. In addition, we or our collaborative partners may not be able to manufacture our product candidates successfully or have a third party manufacture them in a cost-effective manner. If we or our collaborative partners are unable to develop our own manufacturing facilities or to obtain or retain third-party manufacturing on acceptable terms, we may not be able to conduct certain future pre-clinical and clinical testing or to supply commercial quantities of our products. In the 2013 CRL, the FDA cited deficiencies at the facility where ILUVIEN is manufactured. Although Alimera has responded to the FDA and reported that it does not believe those deficiencies will affect its European commercial supply, there is no assurance that the FDA will be satisfied. We manufacture supplies in connection with pre-clinical or clinical studies conducted by us or our licensees. Our licensees have the exclusive rights to manufacture commercial quantities of products, once approved for marketing. Our and our licensees’ reliance on third-party manufacturers entails risks, including: • failure of third parties to comply with cGMP and other applicable U.S. and foreign regulations and to employ adequate quality assurance practices; • inability to obtain the materials necessary to produce a product or to formulate the active pharmaceutical ingredient on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; • supply disruption, deterioration in product quality or breach of a manufacturing or license agreement by the third party because of factors beyond our or our licensees’ control; • termination or non-renewal of a manufacturing or licensing agreement with a third party at a time that is costly or difficult; and • inability to identify or qualify an alternative manufacturer in a timely manner, even if contractually permitted to do so. Problems associated with international business operations could affect our ability to manufacture and sell our products. If we encounter such problems, our costs could increase and our development of products could be delayed. We currently maintain offices and research and development facilities in the U.S. and the U.K., and our goal is to develop products for sale by us and our licensees in most major world healthcare markets. Manufacturing of pharmaceutical products requires us or our licensees to comply with regulations regarding safety and quality and to obtain country and jurisdiction-specific regulatory approvals and clearances. We or our licensees may not be able to comply with such regulations or obtain or maintain needed regulatory approvals and clearances, or may 30 Table of Contents be required to incur significant costs in doing so. In addition, our operations and future revenues may be subject to a number of risks associated with foreign commerce, including the following: • staffing and managing foreign operations; • political and economic instability; • foreign currency exchange fluctuations; • foreign tax laws, tariffs and freight rates and charges; • timing and availability of export licenses; • inadequate protection of intellectual property rights in some countries; and • obtaining required government approvals. Legislative or regulatory changes may adversely affect our business, operations and financial results. Our industry is highly regulated and new laws, regulations and judicial decisions, and new interpretations of existing laws, regulations and judicial decisions, may adversely affect our business, operations and financial results. U.S. federal and state governments continue to propose and pass legislation designed to reduce the cost of healthcare. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (PPACA) represents one of the most significant health care reform measures in decades. The PPACA is intended to expand U.S. healthcare coverage primarily through the imposition of health insurance mandates on employers and individuals and expansion of the Medicaid program. Several provisions of the PPACA could significantly reduce payments from Medicare and Medicaid for any product candidates that obtain marketing approval in the future. Federal and state legislatures within the U.S. and foreign governments will likely continue to consider changes in existing health care legislation. We cannot predict the reform initiatives that may be adopted in the future or whether initiatives that have been adopted will be repealed or modified. The continuing efforts of the government, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of healthcare services to contain or reduce costs of healthcare may adversely affect the demand for any products for which we may obtain regulatory approval; our ability to set a price that we believe is fair for our products; our ability to obtain coverage and reimbursement approval for a product; our ability to generate revenues and achieve or maintain profitability; or the level of taxes that we are required to pay. In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since PPACA. The Budget Control Act (BCA) of 2011 includes provisions to reduce the federal deficit. The BCA, as amended, resulted in the imposition of 2% reductions in Medicare payments to providers beginning in 2013. More recent legislation extends reductions through 2024. Any significant spending reductions affecting Medicare, Medicaid or other publicly funded or subsidized health programs that may be implemented, and/or any significant taxes or fees that may be imposed on us, as part of any broader deficit reduction effort or legislative replacement to the BCA, could have an adverse impact on our anticipated product revenues. The FDAAA granted the FDA enhanced authority over products already approved for sale, including authority to require post-marketing studies and clinical trials, labeling changes based on new safety information and compliance with risk evaluations and mitigation strategies approved by the FDA. The FDA’s exercise of this relatively new authority could result in delays and increased costs during product development, clinical trials and regulatory review and approval, increased costs following regulatory approval to assure compliance with new post-approval regulatory requirements, and potential restrictions on the sale or distribution of approved products following regulatory approval. Changes in the regulatory approval policy during the development period, changes in or the enactment of additional regulations or statutes, or changes in regulatory review for each submitted product application, may cause delays in the approval or rejection of an application. For example, the July 9, 2012 reauthorization of the 31 Table of Contents PDUFA extended by two months the period in which the FDA is expected to review and approve certain NDAs. Although the FDA has recently stated that it expects to meet PDUFA’s updated timing goals, it has in the past provided its managers discretion to miss them due to heightened agency workload or understaffing in the review divisions. Accordingly, it remains unclear whether and to what extent the FDA will adhere to PDUFA timing goals in the future, which could delay approval and commercialization of our product candidates. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK The price of our common stock may be volatile. The price of our common stock (including common stock represented by CHESS Depositary Interests (CDIs)) may be affected by developments directly affecting our business, as well as by developments out of our control or not specific to us. The price of our common stock dropped significantly when the FDA issued each of the 2011 CRL and the 2013 CRL with respect to ILUVIEN for DME. The biotechnology sector, in particular, and the stock market generally, are vulnerable to abrupt changes in investor sentiment. Prices of securities and trading volumes of companies in the biotechnology industry, including ours, can swing dramatically in ways unrelated to, or that bear a disproportionate relationship to, our performance. The price of our common stock (and CDIs) and their trading volumes may fluctuate based on a number of factors including, but not limited to: • clinical trials and their results, and other product and technological developments and innovations; • FDA and other domestic and international governmental regulatory actions, receipt and timing of approvals of our product candidates, and any denials and withdrawal of approvals; • competitive factors, including the commercialization of new products in our markets by our competitors; • advancements with respect to treatment of the diseases targeted by our product candidates; • developments relating to, and actions by, our collaborative partners, including execution, amendment and termination of agreements, achievement of milestones and receipt of payments; • the success of our collaborative partners in marketing any approved products and the amount and timing of payments to us; • availability and cost of capital and our financial and operating results; • actions with respect to pricing, reimbursement and coverage, and changes in reimbursement policies or other practices relating to our products or the pharmaceutical industry generally; • meeting, exceeding or failing to meet analysts’ or investors’ expectations, and changes in evaluations and recommendations by securities analysts; • economic, industry and market conditions, changes or trends; and • other factors unrelated to us or the biotechnology industry. In addition, low trading volume in our common stock or our CDIs may increase their price volatility. Holders of our common stock and CDIs may not be able to liquidate their positions at the desired time or price. Finally, we will need to continue to meet the listing requirements of the NASDAQ Global Market, including the minimum stock price, and the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX), for our stock and CDIs to continue to be traded on those exchanges, respectively. If the holders of our outstanding warrants and stock options exercise their warrants and options, ownership of our common stock holders may be diluted, and our stock price may decline. As of August 31, 2014, we had outstanding warrants and options to acquire approximately 5.4 million shares of our common stock, or approximately 15.5% of our shares on a fully diluted basis. The issuance of 32 Table of Contents shares of our common stock upon exercise of these warrants and stock options could result in dilution to the interests of other holders of our common stock and could adversely affect our stock price. The overhang of outstanding warrants and options may adversely affect our stock price. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock, and any return to investors is expected to come, if at all, only from potential increases in the price of our common stock. At the present time, we intend to use available funds to finance our operations. Accordingly, while payment of dividends rests within the discretion of our board of directors, no cash dividends on our common shares have been declared or paid by us and we have no intention of paying any such dividends in the foreseeable future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 