RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below, in conjunction with the other information and financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this annual report, before making an investment decision. You should pay particular attention to the fact that we conduct our operations in Italy and are governed by a legal and regulatory environment that in some respects differs significantly from the environment that prevails in other countries with which you may be familiar. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be affected materially and adversely by any or all of these risks. In that event, the market price of our ADSs could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business We have generated limited revenues from commercial sales of our products to date, our revenues have declined significantly since 2003, and we do not know whether we will ever generate significant revenues or achieve profitability. We are focused on product development and have generated limited revenue from commercial sales of our products to date since 2003, because Sirton Pharmaceuticals S.p.A., our primary customer, has had a decrease in demand for some of the products we sell to it, as discussed below. In 2004, we had total product sales of €3.113 million and in 2005 we had total product sales of €3.361 million. We do not expect our total product sales to materially increase unless we are able to sell our product candidates, and we will continue to incur significant expenses as we research, develop, test and seek regulatory approval for these product candidates. While we were profitable in 2002 and 2003, we incurred a net loss of €581 thousand in 2001, a net loss of €7.0 million in 2004 and a net loss of €12.3 million in 2005. Our general and administrative expenses have increased as we added personnel to support our operations in connection with our development of our product candidates, internalized certain administrative services that were performed for us by our largest shareholder, FinSirton, and our affiliate, Sirton, and supported our operations in connection with being a public company. As a result, we anticipate incurring substantial and increasing losses for the foreseeable future. We cannot assure you that we will ever become profitable. If we fail to achieve profitability within the time frame expected by investors or securities analysts, the market price of our ADSs may decline. Most of our revenues are from sales to Sirton, our affiliate; those sales have declined over the past several years and may continue to decline in the future. Substantially all of our product sales in 2001, 2002 and 2003, approximately 92% of our product sales in 2004 and approximately 97% of our product sales in 2005 have been from the sale of our active pharmaceutical ingredients and products to Sirton, which has recently experienced financial difficulties. Sirton sells its finished products to one customer, Crinos, which sells them to the retail market. Our products have seen decreased demand over the past several years due to various market factors. As a result, Sirton’s demand for these products has decreased over the past several years, and may continue to decrease over the next several years until and unless both we and Sirton develop new customers. If we and Sirton are unsuccessful at developing new customers and the demand for our products continues to decrease, it could increase our need for additional capital, and our business could be adversely affected. We currently do not have any regulatory approvals to sell defibrotide to treat or prevent VOD or defibrotide to treat multiple myeloma or any of our other product candidates and we cannot guarantee that we will ever be able to sell any of these products anywhere in the world. We must demonstrate that our product candidates satisfy rigorous standards of safety and effectiveness before the FDA, the European Commission and other regulatory authorities will approve the products for commercial marketing. We or others must conduct clinical trials of those products which must be approved by the FDA or other regulatory agencies. These trials are time consuming and expensive, and we cannot guarantee whether they will be successful. Currently, the only regulatory approvals we have relate to the use of defibrotide to prevent vascular disease with risk of thrombosis in Italy. We do not have approval to sell defibrotide to treat or prevent VOD, defibrotide to treat multiple myeloma or any of our other product candidates anywhere in the world. We will need to conduct significant additional research, preclinical testing and clinical testing before we can file applications with the FDA, the European Commission and other regulatory authorities for approval -8- Back to Table of Contents of our product candidates. In addition, to compete effectively, our future products must be easy to use, cost-effective and economical to manufacture on a commercial scale. We may not achieve any of these objectives, and, as a result, may not be able to sell any of our product candidates anywhere in the world. The FDA and other regulatory authorities may require us to conduct a new clinical trial of defibrotide to treat VOD with multiple-organ failure using a control group. The Dana-Farber Cancer Institute at Harvard University conducted a Phase II clinical trial in the United States for the use of defibrotide to treat VOD with multiple-organ failure that concluded in December 2005. Based on our review of more than 200 articles in the medical literature, we believe that the survival rate for this disease is only approximately 20%. As a result of this fact and the fact that we and the Dana-Farber clinical investigators believe that there are no approved treatments available at this time, the Dana-Farber clinical investigators did not establish a control group of patients who do not receive the drug, as is customarily done in the FDA approval process. The FDA has stated a preference for a double-blind study that utilizes a control group but indicated that they would review a trial using a historical control only. Our Phase III clinical trial of defibrotide to treat VOD with multiple-organ failure that is currently underway uses historical control only. The FDA, upon reviewing this trial, may require us to conduct a new clinical trial using a control group and other regulatory authorities may take the same position. This could significantly delay the filing of a New Drug Application with the FDA or applications for other regulatory approval for this use because one or more of the clinical centers where the clinical trial is to be conducted may not be willing to conduct such a clinical trial on the basis that it is unethical to refuse treatment to patients when the treatment being investigated could potentially save their lives. The committee of clinical investigators who sponsored a Phase II/III clinical trial of defibrotide to treat VOD in Europe conducted by Consorzio Mario Negri Sud, which had a control group, cancelled the trial in October 2005 due to a lack of patients enrolling. We believe that patients were reluctant to enroll due to the possibility of being placed into the control group and not receiving treatment. A requirement for a control group would also require the expenditure of more funds on clinical trials and delay our ability to generate revenue from this product candidate. At present, we do not have sole control of the distribution of defibrotide in Italy, and we may not be be able to gain such control, which may adversely affect our clinical trials and our pricing of defibrotide. Because defibrotide is on the market in Italy, we believe it has been purchased and sold in other countries where its use is not licensed or permitted. This could impact our ability to enroll patients in our trials and the timing of such enrollments. Also, in the future, it could have a negative impact on our ability to appropriately price defibrotide for new indications, unless we can control the distribution of defibrotide in Italy. There can be no assurance of our ability to do so. Our additional product candidates are at early stages of development and will require clinical trials which may not be successful. We intend to apply for FDA and other regulatory agency approval for our additional product candidates, including other uses of defibrotide, in the future, and these additional product candidates will require that we conduct clinical trials and undergo the regulatory approval process. The commencement and completion of these clinical trials could be delayed or prevented by a variety of factors, including: · delays in identifying and reaching agreement on acceptable terms with institutional review boards of clinical trial providers and prospective clinical trial sites; · delays in obtaining FDA or other regulatory agency clearance to commence a clinical trial; · delays in the enrollment of patients; · lack of effectiveness of the product candidate during clinical trials; or · adverse events or safety issues. We do not know whether these future clinical trials will be initiated or completed at all. Significant delays in clinical trials will impede our ability to commercialize these additional product candidates and generate revenue, and could significantly increase our development costs. We may be required to suspend or discontinue clinical trials, including due to adverse events or other safety issues that could preclude approval of our products or due to difficulty enrolling participants. Our clinical trials may be suspended at any time for a number of safety-related reasons. For example, we may voluntarily suspend or terminate our clinical trials if at any time we believe that our product candidates present an unacceptable risk to the clinical trial patients. In addition, institutional review boards of clinical trial providers or regulatory agencies may order the temporary or permanent discontinuation of our clinical trials at any time if they believe that the clinical trials are not being conducted in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements, including if they present an unacceptable safety risk to patients. -9- Back to Table of Contents Administering any product candidate to humans may produce undesirable side effects. VOD and VOD with multiple-organ failure are complications associated with high dose chemotherapy and stem cell transplantation. Adverse events involving vascular disorders, coagulation, and potentially life-threatening bleeding have been reported in patients with VOD treated with defibrotide which potentially could be related to the defibrotide therapy. Hypotension has been reported as a possibly related serious adverse event in the trials of defibrotide to treat VOD with multiple-organ failure. Also, we discontinued a 69-patient Phase I/II clinical trial of defibrotide to prevent deep vein thrombosis after hip surgery in Denmark in 2002 after three patients experienced hypotension after receiving the defibrotide intravenously. That trial was discontinued due to the hypotension and because defibrotide can also be administered orally to prevent deep vein thrombosis. These adverse events reports will be weighed by FDA and other regulatory authorities in determining whether defibrotide can, from a risk-benefit perspective, be considered to be safe and effective to treat VOD with multiple-organ failure, to prevent deep vein thrombosis or any other indication for which approval is sought. It is possible that as further data are collected and analyzed, additional adverse events or safety issues could emerge which could impact conclusions relating to the safety of these additional product candidates. As one of our current products and many of our product candidates utilize or will utilize defibrotide, any problems that arise from the use of this drug would severely harm our business operations, since most of our anticipated primary revenue sources would be negatively affected. Furthermore, the committee of clinical investigators who sponsored a Phase II/III clinical trial of defibrotide to treat VOD in Europe that was conducted by Consorzio Mario Negri Sud cancelled the trial in October 2005 due to a lack of enrollees. In addition, the National Institute of Tumors in Milan cancelled a Phase I clinical trial of defibrotide to increase the number of stem cells available for transplant in December 2005 due to a lack of eligible enrollees. We are co-sponsoring with the European Group for Blood and Marrow Transplantation a Phase II/III clinical trial in Europe of defibrotide to prevent VOD in children, and a Phase II/III clinical trial in Europe of defibrotide to prevent VOD and transplant associated microangiopathy in adults. The participants in both of these trials randomly receive either defibrotide or no treatment. We may have difficulty enrolling participants in these trials as patients may be reluctant to take the risk of not receiving treatment with defibrotide. Further, because defibrotide is available on the market in Italy, we believe it has been purchased and sold in other countries where its use is not licensed. This could impact our ability to enroll patients in our trials and the timing of such enrollments. Our other clinical trials may also be discontinued if we or the sponsors are not successful in enrolling participants. Our products could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market and we may be subject to penalties if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements, if and when any of our product candidates are approved. Any product for which we obtain marketing approval, together with the manufacturing processes, post-approval commitments, and advertising and promotional activities for such product, will be subject to continued regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with our products or their manufacture, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in: · restrictions on such products or manufacturing processes; · withdrawal of the products from the market; · voluntary or mandatory recalls; · fines; · suspension of regulatory approvals; · product seizures; or · injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. If we are slow to adapt, or unable to adapt, to changes in existing regulatory requirements or adoption of new regulatory requirements or policies, we may lose marketing approval for our products when and if any of them are approved. Our manufacturing facility is subject to continuing regulation by Italian authorities and is subject to inspection and regulation by the FDA and European regulatory. These authorities could force us to stop manufacturing our products if they determine that we are not complying with applicable regulations or require us to complete further costly alterations to our facility. Although our main business is discovering, researching and developing drugs, we also manufacture drugs, active pharmaceutical ingredients and other products at our manufacturing facility located near Como, Italy. This facility is subject to continuing regulation by the Italian Health Authority and other Italian regulatory authorities. During a biannual inspection of our manufacturing facility by the Italian Health Authority in October 2004, the Italian Health Authority noted by way of observations certain deficiencies in regard to the operation of our facility. We have corrected all of these deficiencies, and have kept the Italian Health Authority current with respect to the progress of our corrective actions. No penalties were imposed, our -10- Back to Table of Contents facility was not shut down and our manufacturing activities were not otherwise limited or curtailed as a result of the Italian Health Authorities’ notation of these deficiencies. Our manufacturing facility is subject to inspection and regulation by the FDA and European regulatory authorities with respect to manufacturing our product candidates for investigational use. Also, part of the process for obtaining approval from the FDA and European regulatory authorities for our product candidates is approval by those authorities of our manufacturing facility’s compliance with current good manufacturing practices. After receiving initial approval, if any, the FDA or those European regulatory authorities will continue to inspect our manufacturing facility, including inspecting it unannounced, to confirm whether we are complying with the good manufacturing practices. These regulators may require us to stop manufacturing our products and product candidates if they determine that we are not complying with applicable regulations or require us to complete costly alterations to our facility. We spent approximately €292 thousand in 2004 to correct the deficiencies noted by the Italian Health Authority and spent approximately €200 thousand in 2005 to complete these corrective actions. We spent approximately €7.2 million in 2004 to substantially upgrade our facility in anticipation of the FDA and European regulatory approval process for our product candidates. If our third-party clinical trial vendors fail to comply with strict regulations, the clinical trials for our product candidates may be delayed or unsuccessful. We do not have the personnel capacity to conduct or manage all of the clinical trials that we intend for our product candidates. We rely on third parties to assist us in managing, monitoring and conducting most of our clinical trials. We expect to enter into clinical trial agreements with numerous centers in the United States and Canada regarding our Phase III clinical trial of defibrotide to treat VOD with multiple-organ failure. We have entered into co-sponsoring agreements with the European Group for Blood and Marrow Transplantation, regarding a Phase II/III clinical trial of defibrotide to prevent VOD in children in Europe and a Phase II/III clinical trial of defibrotide to prevent VOD and transplant associated microangiopathy in adults in Europe. We have entered into an agreement with Bradstreet Clinical Research & Associates, Inc. to perform clinical research project management services in connection with clinical trials conducted in the United States and agreements with KKS-UKT, GmbH and MDS Pharma Services Italy SpA to provide such services for our clinical trials in Europe. If these third parties fail to comply with applicable regulations or do not adequately fulfill their obligations under the terms of our agreements with them, we may not be able to enter into alternative arrangements without undue delay or additional expenditures, and therefore the clinical trials for our product candidates may be delayed or unsuccessful. Furthermore, the FDA can be expected to inspect some or all of the clinical sites participating in our clinical trials, or our third party vendors’ sites, to determine if our clinical trials are being conducted according to current good clinical practices. If the FDA determines that our third-party vendors are not in compliance with applicable regulations, we may be required to delay, repeat or terminate the clinical trials. Any delay, repetition or termination of our clinical trials could materially harm our business. Our failure to raise additional funds in the future may delay the development of certain of our product candidates and sale of our products. The development and approval of our product candidates and the acquisition and development of additional products or product candidates by us, as well as the expansion of our research, regulatory and manufacturing operations, will require a commitment of substantial funds. Our future capital requirements are dependent upon many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: · the successful and continued development of our existing product candidates in preclinical and clinical testing; · the costs associated with protecting and expanding our patent and other intellectual property rights; · future payments, if any, received or made under existing or possible future collaborative arrangements; · the timing of regulatory approvals needed to market our product candidates; and · market acceptance of our products. We will need additional funds before we have completed the development of our product candidates. We have no committed sources of additional funds. We cannot assure you that funds will be available to us in the future on favorable terms, if at all. If adequate funds are not available to us on terms that we find acceptable, or at all, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate research and development efforts or clinical trials on any or all of our product candidates. We may also be forced to curtail or restructure our operations, obtain funds by entering into arrangements with collaborators on unattractive terms or relinquish rights to certain technologies or product candidates that we would not otherwise relinquish in order to continue independent operations. -11- Back to Table of Contents We are currently dependent on third parties to market and distribute our products in finished dosage form, and we may continue to be dependent on third parties to market and distribute our products and product candidates. Our internal ability to handle the marketing and distribution functions for our current products and our product candidates is limited and we do not expect to develop the capability to provide marketing and distribution for all of our future products. Our long-term strategy includes having alliances with third parties to assist in the marketing and distribution of our product candidates. We have entered into an agreement with Sigma-Tau Pharmaceuticals, Inc. to market defibrotide to treat VOD in North America, Central America and South America and we may need to enter into similar agreements to market and distribute our other product candidates or develop these capabilities internally. We face, and will continue to face, intense competition from other companies for collaborative arrangements with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, for establishing relationships with academic and research institutions, for attracting investigators and sites capable of conducting our clinical trials and for licenses of proprietary technology. Moreover, these arrangements are complex to negotiate and time-consuming to document. Our future profitability will depend in large part on our ability to enter into effective marketing agreements and our product revenues will depend on those marketers’ efforts, which may not be successful. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, we may be unable to successfully develop and commercialize our product candidates or otherwise manage our business effectively. We are highly dependent on our senior management, especially Dr. Laura Ferro, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Dr. Massimo Iacobelli, our Senior Vice President and Scientific Director, whose services are critical to the successful implementation of our product acquisition, development and regulatory strategies. If we lose their services or the services of one or more of the other members of our senior management or other key employees, our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates or otherwise manage our business effectively could be seriously harmed. Dr. Ferro’s employment agreement with us is for a period of three years with a two year renewal option and prohibits her from competing with us during the term of her employment and for a period of one year after the termination of her employment. Dr. Ferro’s employment agreement provides that she is not obligated to spend more than 75% of her time working for our company. Cary Grossman, our Chief Financial Officer, is an independent contractor, rather than an employee. Mr. Grossman works for our company on an at-will basis, and has not committed to continue to work for us for any defined period of time. We have an understanding with Mr. Grossman that he will devote approximately 50% of his time working for our company. If Mr. Grossman’s services are discontinued and we are not able to hire an appropriate full-time, permanent Chief Financial Officer on a timely basis, we may not be able to maintain effective internal controls, accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, our operating results could be harmed, we may fail to meet our reporting obligations and potential shareholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our ADSs. Replacing key employees may be difficult and may take an extended period of time because of the limited number of individuals in our industry with the breadth of specific skills and experience required to develop, gain regulatory approval of and commercialize products successfully. Competition to hire from this limited pool is intense, and we may be unable to hire, train, retain or motivate these additional key personnel. In addition, under Italian law, we must pay our employees a severance amount based on their salary and years of service if they leave their employment, even if we terminate them for cause or they resign. In order to expand our operations, we will need to hire additional personnel and add corporate functions that we currently do not have. Our ability to manage our operations and growth will require us to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and reporting system and procedures, or contract with third parties to provide these capabilities for us. Our independent registered public accounting firm reported a material weakness in our internal controls and we may not be able to remedy this material weakness or prevent future weaknesses. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, potential shareholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our ordinary shares. Prior to our initial public offering in June 2005, we were a relatively small, family run Italian business. We had not been required to close our accounting records on a monthly or even quarterly basis. A very small accounting team handled the accounts for not only us, but also our then-parent, FinSirton S.p.A., and sister companies, Sirton and Foltene Pharmaceuticals S.p.A., all of which are also private companies. Therefore, the internal control structure was not adequate for a company publicly listed and reporting in the United States. Also, the financial reporting environment in Italy for private companies is significantly different than for public companies in the United States. As an Italian company publicly listed in the United States, we are required by Italian law to keep our books according to the local statutory accounting methods, but we also prepare U.S. GAAP based financial statements for our Securities Act -12- Back to Table of Contents registration statements and Exchange Act reports. The preparation of our U.S. GAAP based financial statements is a manual process which involves the transformation of our Italian statutory financial statements into U.S. GAAP through a significant number of complex accounting adjustments and processes. This process also requires an ongoing review and update of the applicable U.S. GAAP that should be applied to the underlying Italian financial statements. This process is complicated and time-consuming and requires significant attention and time of our senior accounting personnel. Moreover, U.S. GAAP accounting adjustments tend to result in large differences between our Italian statutory and U.S. GAAP based financial statements. When we started the process of preparing for our initial public offering, one of the first needs we identified to solve these issues was that of a full time, dedicated finance professional with knowledge of both U.S. and Italian accounting principles. We believe we satisfied that need by hiring Mr. Salvatore Calabrese, our Vice-President, Finance, in February of 2005. However, our independent registered public accounting firm informed us during the course of auditing our 2005 financial statements that our financial statement close process and the transformation of our Italian statutory financial statements into U.S. GAAP still did not reduce to an acceptably low level the risk that errors in amounts that would be material in relation to those financial statements may occur and may not be detected within a timely period by management in the normal course of business at December 31, 2005. Our independent registered public accounting firm considered these deficiencies in determining the nature, timing and extent of their procedures in their audit of our 2005 financial statements, and those deficiencies did not affect their report on our 2005 financial statements. The following highlights the issues identified and the steps that we are taking to remedy these items. We believe that all material weakness issues will be resolved during 2006. · Issue: For the first six months of 2005, we still relied on FinSirton for most of the data processing related to our significant processes, such as inventory costing, payroll and general ledger. We also had limited control over FinSirton’s information technology system related to the input or output of data. Additionally, we had no direct control over the security of data and access controls related to the control environment. Remedy: During the second six months of 2005, we established our own six (6) person accounting, controlling and reporting department, separate from FinSirton, which includes not only Mr. Calabrese but also Roberta Grandini as our controller. Ms. Grandini is experienced in U.S. GAAP and was previously the controller for the Italian subsidiary of a U.S. public biotechnology company. In addition, we purchased, and are in the process of installing, our own information technology system which will allow us to have full control, including information security control, over our data processing, including our underlying books and records. We expect that this transition from FinSirton’s accounting department and information technology system to our accounting department and information technology system will be complete by the end of the second quarter of 2006. · Issue: Our process for budgeting, awarding, tracking and verifying research and development contracts and costs has historically been handled outside of the general accounting system. We have not had controls surrounding this process to closely monitor such areas as actual costs versus budgeted costs, actual costs billed versus the contractual amounts and the timing of when those costs have been incurred. Remedy: As mentioned above, during the second half of 2005, we established and expanded our own independent accounting department. In addition to Mr. Calabrese and Ms. Grandini, this department includes a contract administrator who now has primary responsibility for controlling the research and development contracts and costs. We also established internal procedures for purchases, cash disbursements, limits of authorization and segregation of duties. These procedures include requirements that all research and development expenditures be accompanied by a budget estimate, and any deviations be adequately explained. Additionally, the procedures require that expenses over €2,500 not previously budgeted must be approved by the internal control department, Mr. Calabrese and by our medical director before any purchase requests or contracts may be signed. Furthermore, on a quarterly basis, we perform an analysis of actual expenses versus budgeted expenses, and such analysis is presented and discussed with our management, our Audit Committee and the Board of Directors as a whole. · Issue: Our overall control environment continued to have difficulties in 2005 in closing our accounting records on a timely basis, given (i) the lack of personnel dedicated to performing such services for us, separate from our affiliated companies, (ii) our reliance upon FinSirton’s information technology system and (iii) the need for us to prepare Italian statutory financial statements and then manually convert those statements into U.S. GAAP financial statements. Remedy: We believe that our establishment of and expansion of our own, independent accounting department, including Mr. Calabrese and Ms. Grandini, and the acquisition of our own independent information technology system, will solve points (i) and (ii) above. In addition, although we will continue to need to prepare both Italian statutory financial statements and U.S. GAAP based financial statements, we believe that the expansion of our accounting department will help us close our records more quickly and that the establishment of our new information technology system will reduce the overall complexity of the process and the risk of errors. -13- Back to Table of Contents Any failure to implement new or improved internal controls, or resolve difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our ordinary shares. Our revenues, expenses and results of operations have been and will continue to be subject to significant fluctuations, which makes it difficult to compare our operating results from period to period. Since 2003, our revenues have fluctuated significantly due to the need to temporarily cease operations at our manufacturing facility for an upgrade to the facility for seven months in 2004 and increase production at the facility in 2003 to stockpile inventory in anticipation of this cessation. Our revenues have also fluctuated due to changes in the amounts of each of our products that we sell in different periods. Due to the fact that we do not sell directly to the end-user, the timing of manufacturer orders can cause variability in sales. In 2005, we experienced higher sales volume in the second and in the fourth quarters; however we cannot predict if such fluctuation will happened in future years. Until we have successfully developed and commercialized a product candidate, we expect that substantially all of our revenues will result from the sale of our existing products. We expect that our operating results will vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year as a result of the timing and extent of: · our research and development efforts; · the revenues generated from the sale or licensing of our products; · the execution or termination of collaborative arrangements; · the receipt of grants; · the initiation, success or failure of clinical trials; and · the manufacture of our product candidates, or other development related factors. Some of Series A senior convertible promissory notes we issued in the fourth quarter of 2004 and the first quarter of 2005 were converted into our ordinary shares upon the closing of our initial public offering in June 2005 and the remainder were repaid in June and July 2005. Our results of operations in 2004 and 2005 reflect the interest expense we incurred on those notes. That interest expense included the amortization of the debt issue costs and of the original issue discount resulting from the inclusion of the warrants with the notes and the amortization of the value of the beneficial conversion feature resulting from the effective conversion price since the conversion ratio, which is equal to the principal amount of the notes divided by $8.10 (ninety percent (90%) of the initial offering price per ADS in our initial public offering), was less than the fair value of our ordinary shares at the time of issuance of the notes, which was $10.00. During 2004 and 2005, we incurred €1.828 million and €4.095 million, respectively, of interest expense on these notes (including amortization of original issue discount and debt issue costs). As a result, our interest expense, pre-tax income (loss) and net income (loss) for those periods was less than it would have been otherwise. Accordingly, our revenues and results of operations for any period may not be comparable to the revenues or results of operations for any other period. Most of our manufacturing capability is located in one facility that is vulnerable to natural disasters, telecommunication and information system failures, terrorism and similar problems, and we are not insured for losses caused by all of these incidents. We conduct most of our manufacturing operations in one facility located in Villa Guardia, near Como, Italy. This facility could be damaged by fire, floods, earthquake, power loss, telecommunication and information system failures, terrorism or similar events. Our insurance covers losses to our facility, including the buildings, machinery, electronic equipment and goods, for approximately €15 million, but does not insure against all of the losses listed above, including terrorism and some types of flooding. Although we believe that our insurance coverage is adequate for our current and proposed operations, there can be no guarantee that it will adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur. We are not insured for business interruption and we have no replacement manufacturing facility readily available. We obtain office and manufacturing space and certain administrative, financial, information technology, human resources, regulatory and quality control services from affiliates. This structure creates inherent conflicts of interest that may adversely affect us. Our largest shareholder is FinSirton, which owned approximately 39% of our ordinary shares at March 31, 2006. Dr. Ferro, who is our Chief Executive Officer and President and one of our directors, together with members of her family, controls FinSirton. FinSirton provides some of our office space, and corporate, payroll and information technology services. Sirton, which is a wholly owned subsidiary of FinSirton, has been and currently is our principal customer. Sirton also provides -14- Back to Table of Contents us with a number of business services such as, quality control and infrastructure services, and leases us office and manufacturing space. If either of these affiliates failed to perform services for us adequately or caused us damage through their negligent conduct, our management would be presented with inherent conflicts of interest due to their ownership and oversight of FinSirton. We may have limited recourse in the event of such conflicts, and our business may be adversely affected by their occurrence. Our industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid technological changes. As a result, we may be unable to compete successfully or to develop innovative products, which could harm our business. Our industry is highly competitive and subject to significant and rapid technological change as researchers learn more about diseases and develop new technologies and treatments. While we are unaware of any other products or product candidates that treat or prevent VOD or the apoptosis that our product candidate oligotide is designed to treat, we believe that other companies have products or are currently developing products to treat some of the same disorders and diseases that our other product candidates are designed to treat. These companies include AnorMED Inc., AstraZeneca International, British Biotech plc, Abbott Laboratories, The Bayer Group, GlaxoSmithKline plc, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Eli Lilly Company, Boehringer Ingelheim, Axcan Pharma Inc., The Proctor & Gamble Company, Solvay Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Millenium Pharmaceuticals, Inc., ARIAD Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Celgene Corp., Titan Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Cell Genesys, Inc., Human Genome Sciences, Inc., Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., The National Cancer Institute, Seattle Genetics, Inc., EntreMed, Inc., NeoRxx Corporation, Xcyte Therapies, Inc., Amgen, Inc., CuraGen Corporation, Aesgen, Inc. and Endo Pharmaceutical Holdings Inc. In addition, low molecular weight heparin, made by Aventis and other companies, competes with calcium heparin, which is one of the active pharmaceutical ingredients that we sell to Sirton which makes it into a finished product for sale by Crinos. Many of these competitors have substantially greater research and development capabilities and experience, and greater manufacturing, marketing and financial resources, than we do. In addition, these companies’ products and product candidates are in more advanced stages of development than ours or have been approved for sale by the FDA and other regulatory agencies. As a result, these companies may be able to develop their product candidates faster than we can or establish their products in the market before we can. Their products may also prove to be more effective, safer or less costly than our product candidates. This could hurt our ability to recognize any significant revenues from our product candidates. In May 2003, the FDA designated defibrotide as an orphan drug to treat VOD. If the FDA approves the New Drug Application that we intend to file before approving a New Drug Application filed by anyone else for this use of defibrotide, the orphan drug status will provide us with limited market exclusivity for seven years from the date of the FDA’s approval of our New Drug Application. However, a marketing authorization may be granted for the same therapeutic indications to a similar medicinal product if we give our consent to the second applicant, we are unable to supply sufficient quantities of defibrotide, or the second applicant can establish in its application that the second medicinal product, although similar to defibrotide, is safer, more effective or otherwise clinically superior. In that case, our product would not have market exclusivity. Additionally, while we are not aware of any other company researching defibrotide for this use, if another company does develop defibrotide for this use, there is no guarantee that the FDA will approve our New Drug Application before approving anyone else’s defibrotide product for this use, in which case the first product approved would have market exclusivity and our product would not be eligible for approval until that exclusivity expires. In July 2004, the European Commission designated defibrotide as an orphan medicinal product to both treat and prevent VOD. If the European regulators grant us a marketing authorization for those uses of defibrotide, we will have limited market exclusivity for those uses for ten years after the date of the approval. However, a marketing authorization may be granted for the same therapeutic indications to a similar medicinal product if we give our consent to the second applicant, we are unable to supply sufficient quantities of defibrotide, or the second applicant can establish in its application that the second medicinal product, although similar to defibrotide, is safer, more effective or otherwise clinically superior. In that case, our product would not have market exclusivity. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, our ability to compete could be impaired. Our long-term success largely depends on our ability to create and market competitive products and to protect those creations. Our pending patent applications, or those we may file in the future, may not result in patents being issued. Until a patent is issued, the claims covered by the patent may be narrowed or removed entirely, and therefore we may not obtain adequate patent protection. As a result, we may face unanticipated competition, or conclude that without patent rights the risk of bringing products to the market is too great, thus adversely affecting our operating results. Because of the extensive time required for the development, testing and regulatory review of a product candidate, it is possible that before any of our product candidates can be approved for sale and commercialized, our relevant patent rights may -15- Back to Table of Contents expire or remain in force for only a short period following commercialization. Our issued United States patents expire between 2008 and 2019, and our United States patents for which we have submitted applications will expire between 2008 and 2026. Our United States patent covering defibrotide expires in 2010, and our U.S. patent covering the chemical process for extracting defibrotide expires in 2008. Our European patent covering both defibrotide and the chemical process for extracting defibrotide expires in 2007. There may be no opportunities to extend these patents and thereby extend FDA approval exclusivity, in which case we could face increased competition for our products that are derived from defibrotide. Patent expiration could adversely affect our ability to protect future product development and, consequently, our operating results and financial position. We also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. While we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees, consultants, contractors, outside scientific collaborators and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. We intend to eventually license or sell our products in China, Korea and other countries which do not have the same level of protection of intellectual property rights as exists in the United Sates and Europe. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. Risks Related to Ownership of the ADSs Our largest shareholder exercises significant control over us, which may make it more difficult for you to elect or replace directors or management and approve or reject mergers and other important corporate events. Our largest shareholder, FinSirton, owned approximately 39% of our outstanding ordinary shares at March 31, 2006. Dr. Laura Ferro, who is our Chief Executive Officer and President and one of our directors, together with members of her family, controls FinSirton. As a result, Dr. Ferro and her family, through FinSirton, will substantially control the outcome of all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other important corporate events. They may exercise this ability in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily yours. In particular, Dr. Ferro may use her control over FinSirton’s shareholdings in our company to resist any attempts to replace her or other members of our board of directors or management or approve or reject mergers and other important corporate events. Also, the concentration of our beneficial ownership may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in our control, or may discourage bids for the ADSs or our ordinary shares at a premium over the market price of the ADSs. The significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price of the ADSs due to investors’ perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. If a significant number of ADSs are sold into the market, the market price of the ADSs could significantly decline, even if our business is doing well. Some of our executive officers (other than Cary Grossman, our Chief Financial Officer) and directors and our current largest shareholder, FinSirton, have agreed with the underwriters of our initial public offering to a lock-up of an aggregate of 3,750,000 outstanding ordinary shares and 822,000 ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of options outstanding for a period of 18 months after the effective date of the registration statement relating to our initial public offering of securities, provided, however, that if the average price per ADS equals or exceeds 200% of the initial public offering price of the ADSs in our initial public offering for a minimum of twenty continuous trading days, the ordinary shares may be released from the lock-up at the request of the holder, which could result in the release from the lock-up restrictions of the 3,750,000 outstanding shares held by FinSirton and the 822,000 ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the options. Our Chief Financial Officer, Cary Grossman, has agreed with the underwriters to a lock-up of 85,000 ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of certain of his options for a period of 365 days after the effective date of the registration statement relating to our initial public offering of securities. Sales of a substantial number of ADSs representing these ordinary shares in the public market could depress the market price of the ADSs and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. The underwriters, in their sole discretion and at any time without notice, may release all or any portion of the ordinary shares held by our officers, directors, and existing shareholders subject to these lockup agreements. Our other outstanding ordinary shares, ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of warrants and ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of options are not subject to lock-up agreements. We have filed a registration statement registering the resale of 2,001,125 outstanding ordinary shares and ADSs and 1,143,482 ordinary shares and ADSs issuable upon exercise of warrants by certain selling security holders. Further, we have agreed to register (upon request) 1,159,505 outstanding ordinary shares currently held by two of our shareholders, 73,334 shares issuable upon conversion of warrants issued in connection with our Series A senior convertible promissory notes held by one of our securityholders and 151,200 ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of purchase options we granted to the underwriters of our initial public offering for resale in the market. We intend to register ADSs representing such ordinary shares in addition to the ordinary shares themselves, and such registration and ultimate sale of the securities in the markets may adversely affect the market for the ADSs. -16- Back to Table of Contents Risks Relating to Being an Italian Corporation The process of seeking to raise additional funds is cumbersome, subject to the verification of a notary public as to compliance with our bylaws and applicable law and may require prior approval of our shareholders at an extraordinary meeting of shareholders. We were incorporated under the laws of the Republic of Italy. The principal laws and regulations that apply to our operations, those of Italy and the European Union, are different from those of the United States. In order to issue new equity or debt securities convertible into equity, with some exceptions, we must increase our authorized capital. In order to do so, our board must meet and resolve to recommend to our shareholders that they approve an amendment to our bylaws to increase our capital. Our shareholders must then approve that amendment to our bylaws in a formal meeting duly called, with the favorable vote of the required majority, which may change depending on whether the meeting is held on a first or subsequent call. These meetings take time to call. In addition, a notary public must verify the compliance of the capital increase with our bylaws and applicable Italian law. Further, under Italian law, our existing shareholders and any holders of convertible securities sometimes have preemptive rights to acquire any such shares on the same terms as are approved concurrent with the new increase of the authorized capital pro rata based on their percentage interests in our company. Also, our shareholders can authorize the board of directors to increase our capital, but the board may exercise such power for only five years. If the authorized capital is not issued by the end of those five years, the authorized capital expires, and our board and shareholders would need to meet again to authorize a new capital increase. Our shareholders authorized our board of directors to increase our capital by up to €90 million of par value for ordinary shares and €10 million for ordinary shares issuable upon conversion of convertible bonds on April 28, 2006. Italian law also provides that if the shareholders vote to increase our capital, dissenting, abstaining or absent shareholders representing more than 5% of the outstanding shares of our company may, for a period of 90 days following the filing of the shareholders’ approval with the Registry of Companies, challenge such capital increase if the increase was not in compliance with Italian law. In certain cases (if, for example, a shareholders’ meeting was not called), any interested person may challenge the capital increase for a period of 180 days following the filing of the shareholders’ approval with the Registry of Companies. Finally, once our shareholders authorize a capital increase, we must issue all of those authorized shares before the shareholders may authorize a new capital increase, unless the shareholders vote to cancel the previously authorized shares. These restrictions could limit our ability to issue new equity or convertible debt securities on a timely basis. We are restricted under Italian law as to the amount of debt securities that we may issue relative to our equity. Italian law provides that we may not issue debt securities for an amount exceeding twice the amount of the sum of the aggregate par value of our ordinary shares (which we call our capital), our legal reserve and any other disposable reserves appearing on our latest Italian GAAP balance sheet approved by our shareholders. The legal reserve is a reserve to which we allocate 5% of our Italian GAAP net income each year until it equals at least 20% of our Italian GAAP capital. One of the other reserves that we maintain on our balance sheet is a “share premium reserve”, meaning amounts paid for our ordinary shares in excess of the capital. At December 31, 2005, the sum of our capital, legal reserves and other reserves on our Italian GAAP balance sheet was €29.6 million. If we issue debt securities in the future, until such debt securities are repaid in full, we may not voluntarily reduce our capital or our reserves (such as by declaring dividends) if it results in the aggregate of the capital and reserves being less than half of the outstanding amount of the debt. If our equity is reduced by losses or otherwise such that the amount of the outstanding debt securities is more than twice the amount of our equity, some legal scholars are of the opinion that the ratio must be restored by a recapitalization of our company. If our equity is reduced, we could recapitalize by issuing new shares or having our shareholders contribute additional capital to our company, although there can be no assurance that we would be able to find purchasers for new shares or that any of our current shareholders would be willing to contribute additional capital. If we suffer losses that reduce our capital to less than €120 thousand, we would need to either recapitalize, change our form of entity or be liquidated. Italian law requires us to reduce our shareholders’ equity and, in particular, our capital (aggregate par value of our ordinary shares) to reflect on-going losses. We are also required to maintain a minimum capital of €120 thousand. At December 31, 2005, our Italian GAAP capital was approximately €9.611 million. If we suffer losses from operations that would reduce our capital to less than €120 thousand, then either we must increase our capital (which we could do by issuing new shares or having our shareholders contribute additional capital to our company) or convert the form of our company into an S.r.l., which has a lower capital requirement of €10 thousand. If we did not take these steps, a court could liquidate our company. You may not have the same voting rights as the holders of our ordinary shares and may not receive voting materials in time to be able to exercise your right to vote. Except as described in this annual report and in the deposit agreement for the ADSs, with our depositary, holders of the ADSs will not be able to exercise voting rights attaching to the ordinary shares evidenced by the ADSs on an individual basis. Holders of the ADSs will have the right to instruct the depositary as their representative to exercise the rights attached to -17- Back to Table of Contents the ordinary shares represented by the ADSs. You may not receive voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote, and it is possible that you, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote. You may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings as a result. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. Under our deposit agreement for the ADSs with our depositary, the depositary will not offer those rights to ADS holders unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to ADS holders are either registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. In addition, we may not be able to take advantage of any exemptions from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, holders of our ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings as a result. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs represented by the ADRs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. Due to the differences between Italian and U.S. law, the depositary (on your behalf) may have fewer rights as a shareholder than you would if you were a shareholder of a U.S. company. We are incorporated under the laws of the Republic of Italy. As a result, the rights and obligations of our shareholders are governed by Italian law and our bylaws, and are in some ways different from those that apply to U.S. corporations. Some of these differences may result in the depositary (on your behalf) having fewer rights as a shareholder than you would if you were a shareholder of a U.S. corporation. We have presented a detailed comparison of the Italian laws applicable to our company against Delaware law in “Item 10, Additional Information, Comparison of Italian and Delaware Corporate Laws.” We compared the Italian laws applicable to our company against Delaware law because Delaware is the most common state of incorporation for U.S. public companies. Italian labor laws could impair our flexibility to restructure our business. In Italy, our employees are protected by various laws giving them, through local and central works councils, rights of consultation with respect to specific matters regarding their employers’ business and operations, including the downsizing or closure of facilities and employee terminations. These laws and the collective bargaining agreements to which we are subject could impair our flexibility if we need to restructure our business. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This annual report may contain forward-looking statements that involve substantial risks and uncertainties regarding future events or our future performance. When used in this annual report, the words “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “may,” “intent,” “continue,” “will,” “plan,” “intend,” and “expect” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. You should read statements that contain these words carefully because they discuss our future expectations, contain projections of our future results of operations or of our financial condition or state other “forward-looking” information. We believe that it is important to communicate our future expectations to our investors. Although we believe that our expectations reflected in any forward-looking statements are reasonable, these expectations may not be achieved. The factors listed in the section captioned “Risk Factors,” as well as any cautionary language included in this annual report or incorporated by reference, provide examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations we describe in our forward-looking statements. Before you invest in our ordinary shares, you should be aware that the occurrence of the events described in the “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this annual report could have a material adverse effect on our business, performance, operating results and financial condition. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements set forth in this annual report. Except as required by federal securities laws, we are under no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. You should rely only on the information contained in this annual report. We have not authorized anyone to provide you with information different from that contained in this annual report. The information contained in this annual report is accurate only as of the date of this annual report. -18- Back to Table of Contents ITEM 