ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. You should be aware that the occurrence of any of the events described in this Risk Factors section and elsewhere in this annual report could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In evaluating us, you should consider carefully, among other things, the factors and specific risks set forth below, and in documents we incorporate by reference. This annual report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Risk Factors Relating to Our Business Our current revenues are minimal and not sufficient to support our operations. If we are unable to raise additional financing, we may not be able to carry out our long-term plans. The wells that we have drilled began producing CBM for sale only in January 2005, and the amount of CBM that we are currently selling is not significant. We are not currently generating net income or positive cash flow from operations. Even if we achieve increased revenues and positive cash flow from operations in the future, we anticipate increased exploration, development and other capital expenditures as we continue to explore and develop our CBM rights. Therefore, in order to achieve our long-term plans and maintain a viable business, we will need to raise additional financing. If we are unable to raise additional financing, we will likely be unable to carry out our long-term plans, which would negatively impact the value of your investment in us. Even if we continue to demonstrate the commercial viability of CBM wells in the Illinois Basin, we may encounter difficulty in raising additional capital on favorable terms. Interest rates and investor expectations and demands are subject to change, and any change in these areas could have a negative effect on the financing terms 15 that we are able to obtain. In addition, the terms of any new financing may adversely affect your investment. If we issue shares of preferred stock or additional common shares, institutional investors may negotiate terms equal to or more favorable than market prices or the terms of our prior offerings, resulting in dilution to existing shareholders. Debt financing could result in the lenders having a claim to assets prior to the rights of our shareholders, divert cash flow to service the debt, and restrict operations through compliance with lenders’ restrictions. Any such terms could adversely affect the return that you receive on your investment in us. We have incurred significant operating losses since our inception and may not achieve profitability in the future. We have experienced significant operating losses and negative cash flow from operations since our inception, and we currently have an accumulated deficit. During our fiscal year ended July 31, 2005 we incurred a net loss of $5,396,351, and during our fiscal year ended July 31, 2006 we incurred a net loss of $8,836,245. As of July 31, 2006, we have an accumulated deficit of $27,193,528. We anticipate that our operating costs and capital expenditures will continue to grow as we continue to explore and develop our CBM rights. Even if we significantly grow our revenues from the sale of CBM, it is possible that our increased operating costs and capital expenditures will prevent us from generating net income. In addition, in the future we could incur greater than expected drilling or other operating expenses, we could discover that our properties are not commercially viable, or gas prices could decline significantly. Any of these events would have a significantly negative impact on our ability to generate net income. If we are unable to achieve profitability at any time in the near future, the value of your investment in us could be adversely affected. CBM exploration is speculative in nature and may not result in operating revenues or profits. The Illinois Basin is largely untested for commercial CBM production. In addition, we have evaluated the CBM potential in only a relatively small part of our acreage rights. Only an extended production history of the wells that we drill will indicate whether our wells will be commercially productive over the long-term. We could determine in the future that the Illinois Basin does not contain enough CBM for commercially viable operations, or that the conditions in the Illinois Basin are not conducive for commercially viable operations. Any such determination would have a significantly negative effect on your investment in us. Future wells that we drill may not be successful, due to low CBM content in the coal, low permeability, unusually low or high water quantities, low water quality, incorrect forecasts or other factors. We cannot be sure that completed wells will produce enough CBM to recover our capital investments. We can provide no assurance that the exploration and development of our projects will occur as scheduled, or that actual results will be in line with expectations. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain. Factors that can delay or prevent drilling operations, include: • unexpected drilling conditions; • pressure or irregularities in formations; • equipment failures or accidents; • shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs or the delivery of equipment; • the inability to hire personnel or engage other third parties for drilling and completion services; • the inability to obtain regulatory approvals to drill CBM wells where planned; • litigation initiated by surface owners attempting to prevent us from utilizing the surface land for our operations; and • the inability to sell CBM production, due to the loss of access to the pipelines into which CBM production is sold or an oversupply of natural gas in the market. 16 Wells on some projects could require substantial dewatering ahead of production, which could delay the start of production by months and increase completion costs. Continued high volume water pumping during production would increase operating costs. If we experience significant setbacks in drilling, completing and operating wells, or significantly increased costs due to unexpected conditions, our financial performance will suffer. We could experience delays in securing drilling equipment and crews, which would cause us to fail to meet our drilling plans and negatively impact our operations. We utilize drilling contractors to perform all of the drilling on our projects. We maintain a limited number of supervisory and field personnel to oversee drilling and production operations. Our plans to drill additional wells are determined in large part by the anticipated availability of acceptable drilling equipment and crews. We do not currently have any contractual commitments that ensure we will have adequate drilling equipment or crews to achieve our drilling plans. If our anticipated levels of drilling equipment are not made available to us, we will have to modify our drilling plans, which would cause us to fail to meet our drilling plan and negatively impact our operations. If we cannot meet our drilling plans, the value of your investment in us may decline. We could lose significant portions of our CBM acreage rights if we do not place into production a sufficient number of CBM wells. The primary terms of the lease and farmout agreements pursuant to which we hold, or upon the exercise of options will hold, most of our CBM acreage rights will expire between November 2007 and April 2026, after which we will continue to hold our acreage rights only to the extent that we are producing CBM from the covered acreage. Under some of these leases we will retain only limited acreage rights for each CBM well that we place into production. We could encounter strong competition for properties in the Illinois Basin. The natural gas industry is highly competitive. We currently hold substantial CBM acreage rights in the Illinois Basin, but other companies may become active in the area. New entrants could have greater financial and technological resources, which might enable them to outbid us on new acreage or obtain leaseholds, option agreements or farm-out agreements for which we currently have agreements in place when our rights expire or lapse. Any loss of acreage would negatively impact the potential scope of our operations, which would likely have a negative impact on the value of your investment in us. Because approximately 74% of our CBM acreage rights are inferior to coal mining rights covering the same properties, our affected operations could be displaced by coal mining operations, which would negatively impact our operations. Under the agreements pursuant to which we hold approximately 74% of our CBM acreage rights, our right to drill for and produce CBM is expressly subject to the mining of coal on the acreage covered by the agreement. We may not interfere with any existing coal mining operations and, under certain circumstances, may be required to cease drilling in locations where coal mining operations will be undertaken. These superior coal rights may restrict the locations where we can drill CBM wells on our projects and may cause some of our CBM operations to be displaced by coal operations. Any such displacement could cover a significant portion of our CBM acreage rights. If we face significant restrictions on where we can drill our CBM wells or a significant number of our CBM wells are displaced by coal mining operations, our operations and financial performance will be negatively impacted. The CBM rights that we have acquired under lease and option agreements are subject to a number of uncertainties, which, when resolved, could cause us to lose some of our CBM rights. Under the terms of the lease and option agreements pursuant to which we have acquired most of our CBM rights, we are entitled to all of the CBM rights held by our lessors in the counties covered by these agreements. However, we face a number of uncertainties regarding what rights our lessors hold. The issue of who owns CBM gas, as between the coal rights owner and the oil and gas rights owner, is uncertain in Illinois. Although the appellate court in Illinois for the district where most of our acreage rights are situated has 17 ruled that CBM gas is owned by the coal rights owner, the issue has not been addressed by the highest court in Illinois. We believe, based on advice from legal counsel, that under Illinois law ownership will ultimately be found to lie with the coal rights owner. Based on this advice, we generally secure CBM rights from the coal owners. Some of the lessors from which we have acquired CBM rights may hold both the coal rights and the oil and gas rights for the applicable properties, but in some cases it is not certain that these lessors also hold the oil and gas rights. If any litigation in Illinois concludes that CBM rights lie with the oil and gas owner, we could lose some of our CBM rights. In addition, in some cases the extent of the coal and/or oil and gas rights held by our lessors is uncertain. We conducted no title or deed examinations prior to executing our lease and option agreements, and our lessors made no warranties as to the acreage or rights covered by the agreements. Although we have now conducted title and deed examinations covering much of the CBM properties under our leases, these examinations are ongoing at all of our projects. There can be no assurance that our rights under our lease and option agreements include all of the acreage and rights identified in the agreements until title examinations on all of the underlying properties have been completed. If any of these uncertainties is resolved unfavorably to us, we could lose some of our CBM acreage rights. Any loss of our CBM acreage rights would negatively impact our growth potential, which could cause the value of your investment in us to decline. We could incur significant costs in connection with disputes over surface rights, which would have a negative impact on our financial performance. We have been subject to legal complaints regarding the extent of the surface rights that derive from our CBM rights. On occasion, the owners of properties that are adjacent to our drilling locations have challenged our right to cross their property in accessing our drilling locations and our right to lay gas and water flow lines across their property. The extent of our rights in respect of these issues is uncertain in Illinois. If disputes regarding our surface rights are not resolved in our favor, we may be required to acquire surface rights or access our drilling locations and lay gas and water flow lines in inefficient ways, which would cause us to incur increased operating costs. In addition, we could incur significant costs in legal disputes over our surface rights. During our fiscal year ended July 31, 2005 we incurred approximately $303,000 in legal fees in connection with legal disputes over surface rights, and during our fiscal year ended July 31, 2006 we incurred approximately $10,000 in legal fees in connection with such disputes. If for any reason these operating or legal costs increase significantly, our financial performance will suffer. We could incur substantial costs to comply with environmental regulations, and our failure to comply with environmental regulations could result in significant fines and/or penalties, either of which could adversely affect our operations. Our operations are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. Although we believe that our operations to date have been conducted in compliance with these regulations, new more restrictive laws or regulations could be adopted, which could force us to expend significant resources to comply with the new requirements. Because CBM exploration is relatively new in the Illinois Basin, the governmental agencies that regulate us, including the Illinois Department of Natural Resources’ Office of Mines and Minerals, may determine that new laws and regulations are required to govern the growing industry. CBM operations are technologically different from conventional oil and gas operations, and these agencies may determine that existing regulations, which are generally focused on the oil and gas industry, are not sufficient for CBM operations. As CBM activity increases in the Illinois Basin, unexpected regulatory issues may develop, which could impose additional compliance costs on us. Any significant increase in compliance costs could have a negative impact on our results of operations and could prevent our properties from being commercially viable. 18 The occurrence of a significant adverse event that is not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. The exploration for and development and production of CBM involves a variety of operating risks, including the possibility of fire, explosion and blow-out from abnormal formation pressure. It is not always possible to fully insure against such risks. An uninsured or underinsured loss could adversely impact our financial condition. Our ability to attain profitable operations could be negatively impacted by any decline in natural gas prices. Our ability to grow our revenues, and ultimately attain profitable operations, will depend not only on our ability to place CBM wells into production but on the market for natural gas. Natural gas prices have historically been volatile, and they are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. If natural gas prices decline significantly for extended periods of time, the CBM wells that we place into production may not be commercially viable and we might not be able to generate enough revenues to reach profitable operations. Our failure to reach profitable operations will negatively affect the value of your investment in us. We will incur increased costs as a result of registering in the United States. In December 2005, we became subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. As an SEC registrant, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a Canadian public company. We will incur costs associated with complying with the rules and regulations of the SEC, including those adopted under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We currently estimate that these costs will total approximately $1.0 million on an annual basis. In addition, we will continue to be subject to the securities laws and reporting requirements of the British Columbia Securities Commission and the Alberta Securities Commission. These dual reporting obligations will result in increased compliance costs, which could adversely affect our financial performance. In addition, being subject to SEC regulation and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may make it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. There is not a substantial amount of trading in our common shares, which could prevent you from selling your common shares at acceptable prices or at all. Our common shares are currently traded on the American Stock Exchange. There is not a substantial amount of trading in our common shares on the American Stock Exchange. We are not certain that a more active trading market in the stock will develop, or that it will be sustained if it does develop. Because the market for our common shares is limited and is likely to remain limited in the near future, you may not be able to sell your common shares at acceptable prices or at all. The American Stock Exchange has adopted standards under which it will normally give consideration to removing a security from listing. However, the standards in no way limit the Exchange and it may at any time, in view of the circumstances in each case, remove a security from listing when in its opinion such security is unsuitable for continued trading on the Exchange. These standards include, but are not limited to, consideration of: (i) a company’s financial condition and/or operating results; (ii) whether the company has sold or otherwise disposed of its principal operating assets, ceased to be an operating company or discontinued a substantial portion of its operations; and (iii) whether a company’s common stock sells for a substantial period of time at a low price per share. It is possible that the Exchange could make a determination in the future that our stock is unsuitable for continued trading on the Exchange. If our stock is delisted from the Exchange, it will likely be difficult to effect sales of our stock. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 19 