Item 1A. Risk Factors If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In those cases, the trading price of our common stock could decline. The concentration of our business with a base of retail customers that make no binding long-term commitments means that economic difficulties or changes in the purchasing policies of our major customers could have a significant impact on our business. A number of large, retail customers account for a majority of our net sales. The customer that generated more than 10% of net sales for the year ended December 31, 2009 was Toys R Us (52% of net sales). Because of the concentration of our business with this customer and because we have no long term contracts with this customer, our success depends on our customers' willingness to purchase and provide shelf space for our products. An adverse change in our relationship with any of our large customers or a change in the financial viability of any of these customers could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to grow and compete will be harmed if we do not successfully satisfy consumer preferences, enhance existing products, develop and introduce new products, and achieve market acceptance of those products. Our business and operating results depend largely upon the appeal of our products. Consumer preferences, particularly among parents, who are the end purchasers of our products, are constantly changing. Our success will, in large part, depend on our ability to identify emerging trends in the health, safety and wellness marketplace, and design products that address consumer demand and prove safe and cost effective. Our product offerings compete with those of many other companies, many of which are much larger and enjoy broader brand recognition and significant distribution channel relationships, which means that our market position is always at risk. Our ability to maintain and increase our current market share will depend upon our ability to anticipate changes in consumer preferences and satisfy these preferences, enhance existing products, develop and introduce new products and establish and grow distribution channels for these products, and ultimately achieve market acceptance of these products. We are dependent on key personnel, and our ability to grow and compete in our industry will be harmed if we do not retain the continued services of our key personnel, or we fail to identify, hire, and retain additional qualified personnel. We are dependent on the efforts of our management team, and the loss of services of members of our management team, each of whom has substantial experience in the juvenile health, safety and wellness markets, could have an adverse effect on our business. If any members of management leave, their departure could have an adverse effect on our operations and could adversely affect our ability to design new products and to maintain and grow the distribution channels for our products. In addition, if our operations continue to grow in a manner consistent with our historical growth rates, it will be necessary for us to attract and retain additional qualified personnel. The market for qualified and talented product development personnel in the consumer goods market, and the juvenile health, safety and wellness products market specifically is intensely competitive. If we are unable to attract or retain qualified personnel as needed, the growth of our operations could be slowed or hampered. However, we believe that Summer Infant's compensation including salary, performance-based bonuses, and stock award programs provides incentives that are competitive within our industry. 5 Table of Contents Intellectual property claims relating to our products could increase our costs and adversely affect our business. We have, from time to time, received claims of alleged infringement of patents relating to certain of our products, and we may face similar claims in the future. These claims relate to alleged patent infringement and are primarily the result of newly issued patents that were not in force when we initially brought the subject products to market. The defense of intellectual property claims can be costly and time consuming, even in circumstances where the claim is without merit. We may be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs in order to resolve these types of claims. In addition, these claims could materially harm our brand name, reputation and operations. We rely on foreign suppliers in Asia to manufacture the majority of our products, and any adverse change in our relationship with our suppliers could harm our business. We rely on numerous third-party suppliers located in Asia for the manufacture of most of our products. While we believe that alternative suppliers could be located if required, our product sourcing could be affected if any of these suppliers do not continue to manufacture our products in required quantities or at all, or with the required levels of quality. We enter into purchase orders with our foreign suppliers and do not enter into any long term contracts. In addition, difficulties encountered by these suppliers, such as fire, accident, natural disasters, outbreaks of contagious diseases, or political unrest, could halt or disrupt production at the affected locations, resulting in delay or cancellation of orders. Any of these events could result in delayed deliveries by us of our products, causing reduced sales and harm to our reputation and brand name. Increases in the cost of materials or labor used to manufacture our products could decrease our profitability and therefore negatively impact our business and financial condition. Because our products are manufactured by third-party suppliers, we do not directly purchase the materials used in the manufacture of our products. However, the prices paid by us to these suppliers could increase if raw materials, labor, or other costs increase. If we cannot pass these increases along to our customers, our profitability will be adversely affected. Because we rely on foreign suppliers and we sell in to foreign markets, we are subject to numerous risks associated with international business that could increase our costs or disrupt the supply of our products, resulting in a negative impact on our business and financial condition. Our international operations subject us to risks, including: •economic and political instability, •restrictive actions by foreign governments, •greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker laws protecting intellectual property rights, •changes in import duties or import or export restrictions, •timely shipping of product and unloading of product through West Coast ports, as well as timely truck delivery to our warehouses, •complications complying with the laws and policies of the United States affecting the importation of goods, including duties, quotas, and taxes, and •complications in complying with trade and foreign tax laws. Any of these events or circumstances could disrupt the supply of our products or increase our expenses. 6 Table of Contents Product liability, product recalls, and other claims relating to the use of our products could increase our costs. Because we sell infant and juvenile health, safety and wellness products to consumers, we face product liability risks relating to the use of our products. We also must comply with a variety of product safety and product testing regulations. If we face a product liability or other claim or fail to comply with these regulations, we may be subject to costly litigations, damage awards, fines or settlement costs that exceed our insurance coverage. We also would incur significant costs in connection with any product recall requirements. Even if a product liability or other claim is without merit, the claim could harm our reputation and divert management's attention and resources from our business. Competition in our markets could reduce our net sales and profitability. We operate in highly competitive markets. We compete with several large domestic and foreign companies and with other producers of infant products. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater brand recognition, and greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have. In addition, we may face competition from new participants in our markets because the infant product industry has limited barriers to entry. We experience price competition for our products, competition for shelf space at retailers and competition for licenses, all of which may increase in the future. If we cannot compete successfully in the future, our net sales and profitability will likely decline. We may experience difficulties in integrating strategic acquisitions. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to pursue acquisitions that are consistent with our mission and enable us to leverage our competitive strengths. The integration of acquired companies and their operations into our operations involves a number of risks, including: •the acquired business may experience losses that could adversely affect our profitability; •unanticipated costs relating to the integration of acquired businesses may increase our expenses; •possible failure to obtain any necessary consents to the transfer of licenses or other agreements of the acquired company; •possible failure to maintain customer, licensor and other relationships after the closing of the transaction of the acquired company; •difficulties in achieving planned cost-savings and synergies may increase our expenses or decrease our net sales; •diversion of management's attention could impair their ability to effectively manage our business operations; and •unanticipated management or operational problems or liabilities may adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. In addition, any future acquisitions or investments may result in: •issuances of dilutive equity securities, which may be sold at a discount to market price; •use of significant amounts of cash; •the incurrence of debt; •the assumption of significant liabilities; •unfavorable financing terms; •large one-time expenses; and 7 Table of Contents •the creation of intangible assets, including goodwill, the write-down of which may result in significant charges to earnings. Our debt covenants may limit our ability to complete acquisitions, incur debt, make investments, sell assets, merge or complete other significant transactions. Our loan agreements include provisions that place limitations on a number of our activities, including our ability to: •incur additional debt; •create liens on our assets or make guarantees; •make certain investments or loans; •pay dividends; or •dispose of or sell assets or enter into a merger or similar transaction. We could issue additional common stock, which might dilute the book value of our common stock. Our board of directors has authority, without action or vote of our stockholders in most cases, to issue all or a part of our authorized but unissued shares. These stock issuances could be made at a price that reflects a discount from the then-current trading price of our common stock. In addition, to raise capital, we may need to issue securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for a significant amount of our common stock. These issuances would dilute current shareholders' ownership percentage which would have the effect of reducing their influence on matters on which stockholders vote, and could dilute the book value of Summer Infant common stock. Stockholders may incur additional dilution if holders of stock options, whether currently outstanding or subsequently granted, exercise their options, or if warrant holders exercise their warrants to purchase shares of Summer Infant common stock. As a "thinly-traded" stock, large sales can place downward pressure on our stock price. Our common stock experiences periods when it could be considered "thinly traded." Finance transactions resulting in a large amount of newly issued shares that become readily tradable, or other events that cause current stockholders to sell shares, could place downward pressure on the trading price of our stock. In addition, the lack of a robust resale market may require a stockholder to sell a large number of shares in increments over time to mitigate any adverse impact of the sales on the market price of our stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law may limit the ability of our stockholders to control our policies and effect a change of control of our company and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management, which may not be in your best interests. There are provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws that may discourage a third party from making a proposal to acquire us, even if some of our stockholders might consider the proposal to be in their best interests, and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. These provisions include the following: •our certificate of incorporation provides for three classes of directors with the term of office of one class expiring each year, commonly referred to as a staggered board. By preventing stockholders from voting on the election of more than one class of directors at any annual meeting of stockholders, this provision may have the effect of keeping the current members of our board of directors in control for a longer period of time than stockholders may desire; 8 Table of Contents •our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval and to establish the preferences and rights of any preferred stock issued, which would allow the board to issue one or more classes or series of preferred stock that could discourage or delay a tender offer or change in control; and •our bylaws require advance written notice of stockholder proposals and director nominations. Additionally, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which, in general, imposes restrictions upon acquirers of 15% or more of our stock. Finally, the board of directors may in the future adopt other protective measures, such as a stockholder rights plan, which could delay, deter or prevent a change of control. The global economic downturn could result in a reduced demand for our products and increased volatility in our stock price. Current uncertainty in global economic conditions pose a risk to the overall economy as consumers and retailers may defer or choose not to make purchases in response to tighter credit and negative financial news, which could negatively affect demand for our products. Additionally, due to the weak economic conditions and tightened credit environment, some of our retailers and distributors may not have the same purchasing power, leading to lower purchases of our products for placement into distribution channels. Consequently, demand for our products could be materially different from expectations, which could negatively affect our profitability and cause our stock price to decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 