risk factors described in this report. 3 Table of Contents • Become a World Class CBM Exploration and Production Company. We are expanding our technical management team by recruiting and attracting engineers, geologists and production personnel with substantial experience at some of the most successful CBM projects in North America. • Expand CBM Acreage Rights. We continue to look for opportunities to acquire additional CBM acreage rights in the Illinois Basin. Our strategy has been to utilize our test data and all basin-wide data we have been able to access to high-grade areas in the Basin for pilot testing. Successful pilot tests have the potential to lead to future development projects. With this approach in mind, we are acquiring leases and options on acreage blocks in areas where reservoir properties are more favorable and there is currently pipeline delivery infrastructure in place. • Pursue Joint Ventures. We continue to consider joint venture opportunities. With our asset base and technical expertise, we believe that we are well positioned to attract industry joint venture partners for the purpose of providing capital, technical operating expertise and development opportunities to accelerate our growth. Competitive Strengths We believe our competitive strengths include the following: • Substantial CBM Acreage Position. The Illinois Basin is one of the few remaining unexploited CBM areas in North America. Because we were the first company to begin acquiring substantial blocks of CBM acreage rights in the Illinois Basin, we have been able to assemble several large contiguous blocks. This substantial footprint should give us opportunities to leverage our knowledge of the Illinois Basin and realize significant economies of scale as our drilling and production activities grow throughout the Illinois Basin. • Demonstrated Commercial Production. We believe that we have taken the initial steps to demonstrate the commercial production capabilities of the Illinois Basin. As of July 31, 2007, we have drilled 170 wells, including 91 productive wells located at our Southern Illinois Basin Project, most of which have not yet reached peak production. We believe that our increasing production at the Southern Illinois Basin Project demonstrates the commercial viability of the Illinois Basin. During our fiscal year ended July 31, 2006 we sold 135,118 Mcf of CBM, and during our fiscal year ended July 31, 2007 we sold 185,305 Mcf of CBM. • Short Drilling Permit Lead Times. We typically experience short turnaround times in obtaining drilling permits as compared to CBM drillers in other CBM basins. • Low Water Disposal Costs. A significant advantage of operating in the Illinois Basin is that we are not required to build costly water disposal facilities. We have disposed of the water we encounter in connection with our drilling and production by re-injecting the water into disposal wells drilled and operated by us. • Substantial Interstate Pipeline Capacity and Low Transportation Costs. A significant advantage that we have over CBM producers in other basins is our proximity to a large number of interstate gas pipelines that have substantial take-away capacity. Because our operations and CBM acreage are located near several large metropolitan gas consuming markets (e.g., Chicago, St. Louis, Nashville, Indianapolis and Detroit) and the fact that many interstate pipelines headed to the East Coast pass through the Illinois Basin, we expect to incur little or no pipeline-related transportation charges. In addition, we do not expect to experience any lost production or sales due to insufficient local or interstate pipeline capacity to transport the CBM that we produce and sell. • Experienced and Incentivized Management and Operating Teams. Our operating team includes individuals that have participated in the drilling or operating of CBM wells in North America since the early 1980s and in the Illinois Basin since 1996. In addition, all of our management team and the majority of our operating employees own common shares of BPI. 4 Table of Contents CBM Acreage Rights As of July 31, 2007, our CBM acreage rights, controlled through lease and farm-out agreements and ownership of a CBM estate, include the following: Developed Undeveloped Total Project Acres Acres Acres(1) Southern Illinois Basin Project(2) 6,976 3,024 10,000 Northern Illinois Basin Project — 366,364 366,364 Western Illinois Basin Project — 135,948 135,948 Total 6,976 505,336 512,312 (1) Because we are the exclusive owner of the CBM rights under each of our lease and farm-out agreements, our acreage totals reflect both gross and net acres. (2) We acquired ownership of the CBM estate covering 10,000 acres in our Southern Illinois Basin Project in a settlement with our former lessor, which is the owner of the coal rights. Under the terms of the lease agreements pursuant to which we have acquired nearly all of our CBM rights, we are entitled to all of the CBM rights held by our lessors in the counties covered by these agreements. However, we face a number of uncertainties regarding what rights our lessors hold. The issue of who owns CBM gas, as between the coal rights owner and the oil and gas rights owner, is uncertain in Illinois. Although the appellate court in Illinois for the district where most of our acreage rights are situated has ruled that CBM gas is owned by the coal rights owner, the issue has not been addressed by the highest court in Illinois. We believe, based on advice from legal counsel, that under Illinois law ownership will ultimately be found to lie with the coal rights owner. Based on this advice, we generally secure CBM rights from the coal owners. Some of the lessors from which we have acquired CBM rights may hold both the coal rights and the oil and gas rights for the applicable properties, but in some cases it is not certain that these lessors also hold the oil and gas rights. If any litigation in Illinois concludes that CBM rights lie with the oil and gas owner, we could lose some of our CBM rights. In addition, in some cases the extent of the coal and/or oil and gas rights held by our lessors is uncertain. We conducted no title or deed examinations prior to executing our lease agreements, and our lessors made no warranties as to the acreage or rights covered by the agreements. Although we have now conducted title and deed examinations covering much of the CBM properties under our leases, these examinations are ongoing at all of our projects. There can be no assurance that our rights under our lease agreements include all of the acreage rights identified in the agreements until title examinations on all of the underlying properties have been completed. We have been subject to legal complaints regarding the extent of the surface rights that derive from our CBM rights. On occasion, the owners of properties that are adjacent to our drilling locations have challenged our right to cross their property in accessing our drilling locations and our right to lay gas and water flow lines across their property. The extent of our rights in respect of these issues is uncertain in Illinois. If disputes regarding our surface rights are not resolved in our favor, we may be required to acquire surface rights or access our drilling locations and lay gas and water flow lines in inefficient ways, which would cause us to incur increased operating costs. In addition, we could incur significant costs in legal disputes over our surface rights. Southern Illinois Basin Project Our CBM rights in the Southern Illinois Basin Project cover 10,000 acres in the southern part of the Illinois Basin. We hold our CBM rights on this acreage pursuant to a purchase agreement under which we acquired the CBM estate in a settlement with our former lessor, the owner of the coal rights. Under the terms of the deed covering this acreage, our right to drill for and produce CBM takes precedence over coal mining operations for as long as CBM is being produced from the acreage. However, the owner of the coal rights has the right to acquire any CBM wells located in these 10,000 acres. If the coal rights owner exercises this option, it will be required to (i) immediately plug any such well so acquired and (ii) pay the fair market value (as established by a mutually agreed upon expert) of such well. 5 Table of Contents In addition to the GasRock royalties, we are currently paying royalties of 3.03% on our production at this project. The GasRock royalties will also apply to our acreage rights discussed below at the time we produce and sell CBM from the applicable acreage. We commenced sales of gas from our initial pilot production wells on this project in January 2005. As of July 31, 2007, we have drilled 131 wells at this project. These wells consist of 91 productive wells, six shut-in wells, four divested wells (as a result of the Colt LLC settlement), nine plugged wells, two disposal wells, one pressure observation well, and 18 wells that have been drilled but are not yet in production. Most of the productive wells drilled at this project were initially completed in a limited number of seams, intentionally excluding other seams. Our intention when we drilled these wells was to gather as much geological information as we could about CBM and dewatering characteristics of individual coal seams. During fiscal year 2006, we completed additional seams in most of these wells to begin dewatering and producing CBM from the additional seams penetrated by these wells. During fiscal year 2007, we determined it was beneficial to complete additional seams in the remaining wells, which we plan to begin doing in fiscal year 2008. All of our proved reserves are currently located at the Southern Illinois Basin Project. Northern Illinois Basin Project Our CBM rights in the Northern Illinois Basin Project cover 366,364 acres in Montgomery, Shelby, Christian, Fayette and Macoupin Counties in Illinois, which are located in the north central part of the Illinois Basin. We hold our CBM rights on this acreage pursuant to mineral leases and a farm-out agreement. We have entered into a lease agreement with Montgomery County covering 133,788 acres of CBM rights in Montgomery County, Illinois. The lease agreement extends until November 27, 2010. After the initial term of the agreement, we can continue to hold the lease as long as we are producing CBM from the covered acreage. Under the lease agreement, we are required to pay royalties to the lessor equal to 12.5% of our gross proceeds from the sale of CBM produced from the covered acreage. We have also entered into a lease agreement with Shelby County covering 63,250 acres of CBM rights in Shelby County, Illinois. The lease agreement extends until November 12, 2008. After the initial term of the agreement, we can continue to hold the lease as long as we are producing CBM from the covered acreage, with each productive vertical well holding 320 acres and each productive horizontal well holding 1,920 acres. We are required to pay royalties to the lessor equal to 12.5% of our gross proceeds from the sale of CBM produced from the covered acreage. We have also entered into a lease agreement with IEC (Montgomery), LLC covering 102,000 acres of CBM rights in Christian, Fayette, Montgomery and Shelby Counties in Illinois. The lease agreement extends until April 26, 2026. After the initial term of the agreement, we can continue to hold the lease as to each acreage block where we are producing CBM in commercial quantities. We are required to pay royalties to the lessor on our gross proceeds from the sale of CBM produced from the covered acreage at rates ranging up to 12.5%. We have also entered into a lease agreement with Christian Coal Holdings, LLC covering 12,040 acres of CBM rights in Christian and Montgomery Counties in Illinois. The lease agreement extends until April 26, 2026. After the initial term of the agreement, we can continue to hold the lease as to each acreage block where we are producing CBM in commercial quantities. We are required to pay royalties to the lessor on our gross proceeds from the sale of CBM produced from the covered acreage at a rate of 12.5%. As discussed in Item 3 below, these lease agreements with IEC (Montgomery), LLC and Christian Coal Holdings, LLC are currently subject to litigation. We have also entered into a lease agreement with Christian County to lease 14,033 acres of CBM rights in Christian County, Illinois. The lease agreement extends until January 20, 2012. After the initial term of the agreement, we can continue to hold the lease as long as we are producing CBM from the covered acreage. Under the lease agreement, we are required to pay royalties to the lessor equal to 12.5% of our gross proceeds from the sale of CBM produced from the covered acreage. Under the lease agreements with Montgomery, Shelby and Christian Counties, our right to drill for and produce CBM is expressly subject to the mining of coal on the covered acreage. We may not interfere with any existing coal mining operations and, under certain circumstances, may be required to cease drilling in locations where coal mining operations will be undertaken. 6 Table of Contents Under the lease agreements with IEC (Montgomery), LLC and Christian Coal Holdings, LLC, any drilling operations that we set-up can be displaced by coal mining operations. However, the lessor is required to provide us with a mine plan for the leased acreage indicating the acreage blocks that the lessor plans to mine and the order of priority for the acreage blocks that it plans to mine. If the lessor displaces a well ahead of the schedule outlined in the mine plan, the lessor may be required to reimburse us for the cost of plugging the well and, depending on how long the well has been in production and the cumulative gross income generated by the well, the value of the CBM that could be recovered from the well in the remainder of an eight-year term. Also included in the Northern Illinois Basin Project are 41,253 acres of CBM rights in Macoupin County, Illinois, which we can earn under a farm-out agreement with Addington Exploration, LLC, as described below. As of July 31, 2006, we completed drilling a 10-well pilot program at this project that we refer to as the Shelby Pilot. In fiscal year 2007 at the Shelby Pilot, we added one pressure observation well and drilled two additional producers that are not currently completed. Also in fiscal year 2007, we drilled two new test wells in other parts of the Shelby County acreage block. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007, we announced our decision to continue production activities at our Shelby Pilot, while deferring additional development pending further production and pressure information. As of July 31, 2007, we drilled and completed a second 10-well pilot project, the Macoupin Pilot, in the Northern Illinois Basin Project. Those wells have just started the dewatering process. The Macoupin Pilot also includes one pressure observation well and one disposal well. We currently have no proved reserves located at the Northern Illinois Basin Project. Western Illinois Basin Project Our CBM rights in the Western Illinois Basin Project cover 135,948 acres in Clinton, Washington, Marion and Perry Counties in Illinois, which are located in the northwestern part of the Illinois Basin. We hold our CBM rights on this acreage pursuant to mineral leases and a farm-out agreement. We have entered into a lease agreement with Clinton County covering 55,900 acres of CBM rights in Clinton County, Illinois. The lease agreement extends until October 24, 2010. After the initial term of the agreement, we can continue to hold the lease as long as we are producing CBM from the covered acreage. Under the lease agreement, we are required to pay royalties to the lessor equal to 12.5% of our gross proceeds from the sale of CBM produced from the covered acreage. We have also entered into a lease agreement with Washington County covering 39,169 acres of CBM rights in Washington County, Illinois. The lease agreement extends until September 9, 2011. After the initial term of the agreement, we can continue to hold the lease as long as we are producing CBM from the covered acreage, with each productive vertical well holding 320 acres and each productive horizontal well holding 1,920 acres. We are required to pay royalties to the lessor from our gross proceeds from the sale of CBM produced from the covered acreage. The royalty is equal to 12.5% or 6.25% of our gross proceeds, depending on whether it is determined that Washington County’s CBM rights, if any, are derived from coal rights or oil and gas rights. We have also entered into a lease agreement with Marion County covering 17,882 acres of CBM rights in Marion County, Illinois. The lease agreement extends until June 7, 2012. After the initial term of the agreement, we can continue to hold the lease as long as we are producing CBM from the covered acreage. Under the lease agreement, we will be required to pay royalties to the lessor equal to 12.5% of our gross proceeds from the sale of CBM produced from the covered acreage. If we do not commence exploration of CBM within one year from the commencement of the lease, we will be required to pay advance royalties to the lessor equal to $8,941 for each one-year period that we delay commencing exploration. Any payment of advance royalties can be credited against royalties that may later become payable to the lessor from our production of CBM. Under the lease agreements with Washington and Marion Counties, our right to drill for and produce CBM is expressly subject to the mining of coal on the covered acreage. We may not interfere with any existing coal mining operations and, under certain circumstances, may be required to cease drilling in locations where coal mining 7 Table of Contents operations will be undertaken. Under the lease agreement with Clinton County, coal mining rights granted to third parties do not take precedence over our CBM operations. Also included in the Western Illinois Basin Project are 22,997 acres in Perry County, Illinois, which we can earn under a farm-out agreement with Addington Exploration, LLC, as described below. As of July 31, 2007, we have drilled four test wells at the Western Illinois Basin Project from which we are still gathering and evaluating data. We currently have no proved reserves located at the Western Illinois Basin Project. Farm-out Agreement with Addington Exploration, LLC We have entered into a farm-out agreement with Addington Exploration, LLC covering 41,253 acres of CBM rights in Macoupin County, Illinois (part of our Northern Illinois Basin Project) and 22,997 acres of CBM rights in Perry County, Illinois (part of our Western Illinois Basin Project) that Addington controls pursuant to coal seam gas leases. The farm-out agreement provides for an initial 36-month evaluation period, during which we may test and evaluate the covered properties. The evaluation period can be extended by us on unearned acreage through the payment of a fee equal to $0.50 per acre, increasing over five years to $2.50 per acre. For each vertical and horizontal well that we place into production during the term of the agreement, Addington will assign to us its CBM rights covering the surrounding 160 acres penetrated by one of our wells. We plan to extend the 36-month evaluation period on unearned acreage when it expires in November 2007. We are required to pay Addington a royalty equal to 3% of our proceeds from the sale of CBM produced from the covered acreage. In addition, we must pay royalties totaling 12.5% to the lessors under the coal seam gas leases underlying this farm-out agreement. As discussed in Item 3 below, our farm-out agreement with Addington is currently subject to litigation. Technical Services Agreement with BHP Billiton Our Technical Services Agreement with BHP Petroleum (Exploration) Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of BHP Billiton, expired at the end of its term on September 30, 2006, and BHP did not exercise its right to extend the agreement. BHP’s right of first refusal to acquire us lapsed as of the expiration date of the agreement, and the 4 million stock appreciation rights that we granted to BHP, which could be exercised by BHP only in connection with an acquisition of us, expired on March 30, 2007. Status of CBM Operations The following table summarizes the status of wells we have drilled as of July 31, 2007: Nonproductive Wells Drilled — Productive Not Yet Pressure Project Wells Completed(1) Shut-in(2) Plugged Observation(3) Disposal Divested(4) Total Southern Illinois Basin Project 91 18 6 9 1 2 4 131 Northern Illinois Basin Project 20 10 — 1 2 2 — 35 Western Illinois Basin Project — 4 — — — — — 4 Total 111 32 6 10 3 4 4 170 (1) Wells drilled — not yet completed includes 18 wells drilled but not yet completed at our Southern Illinois Basin Project, four test wells at our Western Illinois Basin Project, two wells drilled but not yet completed at our Shelby Pilot project, and eight test wells at our Northern Illinois Basin Project. (2) Shut-in wells include six coal mine methane wells at our Southern Illinois Basin Project. (3) Pressure observation wells are non-producing wells that are used to measure seam-by-seam pressures within the drainage pattern of our CBM fields. (4) Under the terms of the Colt LLC settlement, we divested our ownership interests in four wells. 8 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our drilling activities over the last three fiscal years: Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 2007 2006 2005 Exploratory Wells(1): Productive(2) 10 10 — Nonproductive(3) 12 4 3 Total 22 14 3 Development Wells(1): Productive(2) 5 49 37 Nonproductive(3) 18 5 17 Total 23 54 54 Total Wells: Productive(2) 15 59 37 Nonproductive(3) 30 9 20 Total 45 68 57 (1) An exploratory well is a well drilled either in search of a new, as yet undiscovered CBM reservoir, or to greatly extend the known limits of a previously discovered reservoir. A development well is a well drilled within the presently proved productive area of a CBM reservoir, as indicated by reasonable interpretation of available data, with the objective of completing in that reservoir. (2) A productive well is an exploratory or development well that has been completed and is tied into our gas and/or dewatering system. A productive well may produce only water for a period of time before gas begins to flow through the gas gathering system. (3) A nonproductive well is an exploratory or development well that is not currently a producing well, including pressure observation wells, disposals wells, test wells, and wells drilled but not yet completed. As of July 31, 2007, all of the wells that we have drilled are vertical wells. We estimate that a typical vertical well will require about 24 to 48 months to reach peak production. We completed most of our productive wells in a limited number of seams, intentionally excluding other seams. Our intention when we drilled these wells was to gather as much geological information as we could about CBM and dewatering characteristics of individual coal seams. During our 2006 fiscal year, we went back and completed additional seams in most of these wells to begin dewatering and producing CBM from the additional seams penetrated by these wells. During fiscal year 2007, we determined it was beneficial to complete additional seams in the remaining wells, which we will begin doing in fiscal year 2008. We began selling gas from our first productive wells in January 2005. As of July 31, 2007, we believe that most of our productive wells have not yet reached peak production. Although we have drilled wells on only a relatively small part of our acreage, we have not to date determined that any well we have drilled is a dry hole. Production and Sales The following table sets forth our net sales volume for the periods indicated. Twelve Months Ended July 31, 2007(1) 2006(1) 2005(1)(2) Total net sales (Mcf) 185,305 135,118 17,885 (1) Total sales volumes omit (i) gas consumed in operations and (ii) gas sales equivalent to royalty interests held by our various lessors. (2) No gas was produced until January 2005. 9 Table of Contents Average Sales Prices and Production Costs The following table sets forth the average sales price and average production costs for all of our gas production for the periods indicated. Twelve Months Ended July 31, 2007 2006 2005 Average net gas sales price (per Mcf) $ 6.50 $ 8.34 $ 6.59 Average net production cost (per Mcf)(1) 8.68 7.18 17.18 (1) Production costs include a significant amount of fixed expenses required to operate a minimum number of our wells. As the number of wells and production increase, these costs are expected to decrease on a per unit basis as they are spread over a greater amount of production. Reserves Proved reserves are the estimated quantities that geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be commercially recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions, i.e., prices and costs as of the date the estimate is made. Prices include consideration of changes in existing prices provided only by contractual arrangements (of which none existed as of July 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007, the dates of our estimates of proved reserves prepared by our independent reservoir engineer consultant, Schlumberger Data & Consulting Services), but not on escalations based on future conditions. We did not file any reserve information with any other federal authority or agency during the fiscal year ended July 31, 2007. The following table shows our estimated proved developed and proved undeveloped reserves. Reserve information is net of our royalty obligations. Proved developed and proved undeveloped reserves are reserves that could be commercially recovered under current economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations. Proved developed and undeveloped reserves are defined by SEC Rule 4-10(a)(2) of Regulation S-X. Net Reserves (MMcf) As of July 31, 2007 2006 2005 Estimated proved developed reserves 10,639 8,983 2,971 Estimated proved undeveloped reserves 5,635 5,735 7,321 Total estimated proved developed and undeveloped reserves 16,274 14,718 10,292 Since July 31, 2007 we have completed and tied in 10 wells previously classified as proved undeveloped and representing 1,342 MMcf in Schlumberger’s reserve report. In addition, since July 31, 2007 we have drilled, completed and tied in three wells representing 403 MMcf that are not included as proved reserves in Schlumberger’s reserve report as of July 31, 2007. Discounted Future Cash Flows The following table shows our standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, based on our estimated proved developed and undeveloped reserves (discounted at a rate of 10%), net of taxes: As of July 31, 2007 2006 2005 (Dollars in thousands, except per unit amounts) Total standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows $ 17,183 $ 32,734 $ 23,068 Prices used in calculating reserves (per Mcf) 5.29 7.22 7.44 Sales and Distribution of our Gas Our current and future plans anticipate that we will sell all of our CBM to either (i) pipeline companies or (ii) natural gas marketing companies that secure space on pipelines. There are multiple pipeline and gas marketing 10 Table of Contents companies we could choose to deal with in selling our CBM. There are multiple interstate and intrastate pipeline companies that have pipelines that cross or are in close proximity to all of our current acreage in the Illinois Basin. The interstate pipelines include lines owned by Texas Eastern, Northern Borders, NGPL and Ameren. These pipelines are available to the marketing companies to whom we anticipate selling CBM. We believe that these marketing companies will have adequate capacity from the existing pipelines in the Illinois Basin to be able to purchase all of the CBM we anticipate producing and selling within the next three to five years. We currently sell all of our CBM production to one gas marketing company, Atmos Energy Marketing, LLC, pursuant to monthly contracts. Under these monthly contracts, Atmos is required to buy all of our CBM production, up to a maximum of 2,500 MMBtus per day (which equates to approximately three times our current daily production), at the NYMEX (New York Mercantile Exchange) price as of the close of business on the last day of the most recently ended month less 25 cents per MMBtu as a marketing charge. If we are unable to extend our monthly contracts with Atmos, we believe that we will have multiple gas marketing companies available to us for the sale of our CBM production. On July 31, 2007, pursuant to requirements in our Credit Agreement with GasRock, we entered into a 23-month “costless collar” with BP for the notional amount of 20,000 MMBtu per month beginning in September 1, 2007. For a more detailed description of this arrangement, see the discussion under Item 7A of Part II below. We currently have no fixed price contracts for the sale of our CBM. We do not anticipate entering into any fixed price contracts for the sale of our CBM during the next 24 months. We will reevaluate the risks and benefits of entering into fixed price contracts after our projects and wells become more mature. Availability of Drilling Equipment and Personnel We utilize drilling contractors to perform all of the drilling on our projects. We maintain a limited number of supervisory and field personnel to oversee drilling and production operations. Our plans to drill additional wells are determined in large part by the anticipated availability of acceptable drilling equipment and crews. We believe that sufficient drilling equipment and crews will be available to us in the Illinois Basin to achieve our drilling plan for fiscal year 2008. However, we do not currently have any contractual commitments with drilling contractors, and we can provide no assurance that we will have adequate drilling equipment or crews to achieve our drilling plans. Governmental Regulations Our business is affected by numerous laws and regulations, including those relating to energy, the environment and conservation. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in increased compliance costs and the assessment of administrative, civil or criminal penalties and/or the imposition of injunctive relief. Changes in any of these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. In view of the many uncertainties with respect to current and future laws and regulations, including their applicability to us, we cannot predict the overall effect of such laws and regulations on our future operations. We believe that our current operations comply in all material respects with applicable laws and regulations, and that they have no more restrictive effect on us than on other similar companies in the energy industry. The following discussion describes certain laws and regulations that apply to us and is qualified in its entirety by the foregoing. State Regulations Our operations are subject to regulation at the state level and, in some cases, county, municipal and local governmental levels. Such regulation includes: • requiring permits for the drilling of wells; • maintaining bonding requirements to drill or operate wells; • regulating the location of wells, the method of drilling and casing wells, surface use and the restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled; and • regulating the plugging and abandoning of wells and the disposal of fluids used and produced in connection with operations. 11 Table of Contents Our operations are also subject to various conservation laws and regulations relating to well spacing and safety issues for gas gathering systems. Environmental Regulations We are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that, among other things, regulate the discharge or disposal of substances into the environment and otherwise are intended to protect the environment. Numerous governmental agencies issue rules and regulations to implement and enforce such laws, which are often difficult and costly to comply with and which carry substantial administrative, civil and/or criminal penalties and, in some cases, injunctive relief for failure to comply. Some laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment may, in certain circumstances, impose “strict liability” for environmental contamination. Other laws and regulations may impose restrictions that prevent the rate of natural gas production from being economically optimal or restrict or prohibit exploration or production activities in environmentally sensitive areas. In addition, state laws often require some form of remedial action such as the closure of inactive pits and the plugging of abandoned wells to prevent pollution from former or suspended operations. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with current applicable laws and regulations and that continued compliance with existing requirements will not have a material adverse impact on us. However, from time to time, legislation or other initiatives are proposed to place more onerous conditions on our operations. Adoption of any such proposals could adversely impact our operating costs, capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. Our CBM operations require the hydraulic fracturing of coal seams. We believe that this technique is in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, but neither the Illinois Department of Natural Resources — Office of Mines and Minerals nor the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency regulates the hydraulic fracturing of coal bed formations as a form of underground injection. It is possible that the hydraulic fracturing of coal beds for CBM production will become regulated within the United States as a form of underground injection, resulting in the imposition of stricter performance standards, which, if not met, could result in diminished opportunities for CBM production enhancement and increased administrative and operating costs. In CBM production, naturally occurring groundwater is pumped to the surface as a by-product. We currently dispose of water from our wells through water flow lines that re-inject the water into water disposal wells. Discharge of this water is subject to federal and local regulation, and we are required to obtain permits from the State of Illinois to re-inject the water that our wells produce. We have received permits from the State of Illinois that allow us to dispose of all the water that we anticipate producing at both our Southern Illinois Basin Project and Northern Illinois Basin Project during the fiscal year 2007. As we drill additional wells in areas not currently serviced by our existing water disposal wells, we believe that we will be able to obtain the necessary permits for additional disposal wells, although we can make no assurance in this regard. If the water produced from our wells increases substantially and/or the water quality falls below acceptable standards, other disposal or treatment methods may be required to be implemented. Competition We operate in the highly competitive natural gas market. We face competition from other companies in each of the following areas: • acquiring CBM acreage rights; • selling our natural gas production; • identifying and employing new technologies; and • acquiring the equipment, expertise and personnel necessary to develop and operate our properties. Many of our competitors have financial, technological and other resources that are greater than ours. These companies may be able to pay more for CBM acreage rights and exploratory prospects and may be able to evaluate and purchase more acreage rights and prospects than our resources permit. To the extent our competitors are able to pay more for properties, technologies, equipment and qualified personnel than we are, we will be at a competitive 12 Table of Contents disadvantage. In addition, many of our competitors may enjoy technological advantages and may be able to identify, develop or implement new technologies more rapidly than we can. Our ability to acquire additional acreage rights and explore for CBM prospects in the future will depend upon our ability to obtain the necessary equipment, attract and retain and qualified personnel, successfully conduct operations, implement advanced technologies, evaluate and select suitable properties and consummate transactions in this competitive environment. Employees As of July 31, 2007, we have 21 full-time employees, including our executive officers. We utilize independent consultants and contractors to perform various professional services and for drilling, testing and completion work. Executive Officers and Directors Name Age Position James G. Azlein 58 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director James E. Craddock 48 Chief Operating Officer and Director Randy L. Elkins 41 Controller and Acting Chief Financial Officer Dennis Carlton 57 Director David E. Preng 61 Director Costa Vrisakis 73 Director James G. Azlein has been President, Chief Executive Officer and a Director since August 23, 2001. From 1979 to 1998, Mr. Azlein held positions including President and Chief Financial Officer and was a principal of Cyrus Eaton Group (“CEG”), a private company that specialized in project development, including securing technologies, management, financing and marketing for a variety of projects, for hotels and resorts, agricultural projects and manufacturing plants. In early 2000, Mr. Azlein formed Methane Management, Inc. to acquire the interest of various partners in a 43,000 acre CBM project in southern Illinois in which we owned a minority interest. In August 2001, we acquired Methane Management, Inc. and Mr. Azlein became our President. He has assembled a new management team and is guiding our transition from a primary focus on property acquisition to one of CBM development in the Illinois Basin. James E. Craddock has been Chief Operating Officer since December 19, 2006 and a Director since January 30, 2007. He previously served as our Senior Vice President of Operations. He oversees all of our operational activities, including engineering, geology and land management activities. In particular, he is integrally involved in planning and managing all aspects of our CBM exploration, drilling and production activities. Mr. Craddock joined us from Houston-based Burlington Resources Inc. (acquired by ConocoPhillips on March 31, 2006), where he served as Chief Engineer. In this, his most recent capacity with Burlington, he was responsible for reserve estimation, corporate operations, recruitment and development of the engineering staff and growth of a technical center. As Director of Strategic Planning at Burlington, Mr. Craddock was involved in Burlington’s $3 billion acquisition of the Louisiana Land & Exploration Company (LL&E). He was also involved in developing Burlington’s Farmington, New Mexico CBM project. As head of Reservoir Engineering, and later as Engineering Manager, he was responsible for leading the technical team that grew the Fruitland CBM Project to over 400 MMcf per day. During the play’s peak level of activity, this required drilling up to 300 new CBM wells per year, conducting up to 100 recompletions per year and participating in 100 non-operated wells each year. He began his career in 1981 with Superior Oil (later Mobil) upon graduating from Texas A&M University with a Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering. Randy L. Elkins assumed the position of Acting Chief Financial Officer in October 2006, and has been Controller since February 2005. He is a Certified Public Accountant with more than 15 years of experience in accounting and auditing. Prior to joining us, Mr. Elkins held a senior finance position with International Steel Group, Inc. (NYSE: ISG). From January 1992 through September 2004, he served in various increasingly responsible positions with Ernst & Young LLP, most recently as a senior manager in its Transaction Support Group. While at E&Y, he focused on audits of SEC public companies, mergers and acquisitions and bankruptcy restructurings. Mr. Elkins earned his Bachelor of Business Administration in Accounting from Cleveland State University. He is a member of the Ohio Society of Certified Accountants. 13 Table of Contents Dennis Carlton has been a Director since May 2005. Mr. Carlton has been involved in CBM since 1989. From 1995 through September 2004, he served as a director and worked in several senior executive positions with Evergreen Resources, Inc., serving most recently as Executive Vice President, Exploration and Chief Operating Officer, as well as President of Evergreen Operating Corp. His primary responsibilities included management of all geoscience, engineering, land matters and domestic and international business development activities. Since October 2004, when Evergreen was acquired by Pioneer Natural Resources, Inc., Mr. Carlton has served as a technical and business advisor to Pioneer’s Western Division. Prior to joining Evergreen, he held positions in several companies including Mobil Oil Corporation. Mr. Carlton’s career and knowledge base in CBM spans a vast geographic area including the Rocky Mountain Basins, Mid-Continent, United Kingdom and Alaska. His efforts in the Raton Basin with Evergreen were recognized when he was named the Rocky Mountain Association of Geologists’ Outstanding Explorer in 2000. David E. Preng has been a Director since February 2006. Mr. Preng is the president of Preng & Associates, an executive recruiting company he founded in 1980. Preng & Associates focuses exclusively on matching senior-level business executives seeking board of director, chief executive and other upper-level assignments with energy and natural resources companies in both the United States and Europe. Mr. Preng, who has managed numerous global engagements for a variety of multinational clients, coordinates Preng & Associates’ worldwide practice and is directly responsible for Russian, CIS and Far East recruiting in North America. Prior to founding Preng & Associates, he spent six years in the executive search industry. His industry background includes financial, managerial and executive positions with Shell Oil Company, Litton Industries and Southwest Industries. Mr. Preng earned his Bachelor of Science from Marquette University and his MBA from DePaul University. From 1997 to 2006, he was a director of Remington Oil and Gas, where, in addition to chairing its Nomination & Governance Committee, he served as lead independent director and as a Compensation Committee member. During his tenure on Remington’s board, Remington was acquired by Cal Dive International, Inc. Mr. Preng also serves on the board of directors of Maverick Oil & Gas, Inc., where he chairs its Compensation Committee. He is a director of Community National Bank, the Houston Chapter of the National Association of Corporate Directors and a member of Texas A&M’s International Board. Additionally, he is a fellow of the Institute of Directors in London and has served three terms as director and two years as president of the British American Business Council. Costa Vrisakis has been a Director since January 2002. Mr. Vrisakis is a financier and entrepreneur based in Sydney, Australia. He has been a founder and director of several Sydney Stock Exchange-listed companies. One of his former ventures includes a printing company, Snap-Apart Pty. Ltd., which Mr. Vrisakis founded along with two employees in 1959. In 1985, Snap-Apart Pty. Ltd. was listed on the Sydney Stock Exchange under the name Computer Resources Ltd. In 1993, Moore Corp. of Toronto, Canada acquired Computer Resources. Since 1985, when Mr. Vrisakis sold his interest in Computer Resources Ltd., he has focused his attention on various real estate projects and stock market investments. Since 2000 through the present time, Mr. Vrisakis has devoted the majority of his time to managing his 50% interest in three hotels in Sydney, Australia. William J. Centa served as a Director from March 2005 until his resignation on September 13, 2007. Significant Employees The following persons are not executive officers but make significant contributions to our business: Randy Oestreich, 51, has been Vice President of Field Operations since March 2005. Mr. Oestreich owns A-Strike Consulting, a private consulting company formed in April 2003 to provide consulting services to the CBM industry. From 1976 to 2003, Mr. Oestreich worked for Halliburton Energy Services. With Halliburton, Mr. Oestreich worked in conventional oil and gas exploration and development, as well as unconventional gas, including CBM, primarily in the Illinois Basin, but also in Michigan, Ohio, Kentucky, Pennsylvania and West Virginia. In addition, he was a member of Halliburton’s Coalbed Methane Solutions Team. For the past 15 years, his work has focused on CBM, mine methane and New Albany shale exploration and development. Mr. Oestreich has worked on, and is familiar with, the majority of unconventional gas projects that have been initiated in the Illinois Basin and has worked on the Southern Illinois Basin Project since its inception. Dan Anderson, 60, has been Director of Property Acquisitions since January 2002. Mr. Anderson has more than 30 years of oil and gas and real estate experience: from 1976 to 1983 as Land Department Manager with John Carey Oil 14 Table of Contents Company, Inc.; from 1983 to 1989 as president of his own oil and gas investment consulting company; and as President of a private real estate development company, DAPA Investments, Inc. Prior to joining us, Mr. Anderson worked with DeMier Oil in securing oil, gas and CBM leases in central and southern Illinois, as well as pipeline right-of-way easements. He has extensive experience in the oil, gas and CBM business in the Illinois Basin, including oil and gas and CBM leasing terms and agreements. In addition, he has extensive experience in the workings of land title and registrar procedures on both a local and state level. Mr. Anderson is a member of the Illinois Oil and Gas Association and the American Association of Professional Landmen. Michael Dawson, 57, has been Senior Geological Advisor since August 2006. He was most recently with Burlington Resources Inc. (acquired by ConocoPhillips on March 31, 2006) as a petroleum geologist. During his 26-year tenure with Burlington, he was involved in various exploration and exploitation projects. At Burlington’s Farmington, New Mexico office, he was involved in the Fruitland CBM play. Most recently, Mr. Dawson helped design and implement a comprehensive (San Juan Basin) Pictured Cliffs Sandstone reservoir optimization program. Previously, he worked in Burlington’s Amarillo and Houston offices where his responsibilities included prospect generation, wellsite geology, field development and economic analysis for projects in the Anadarko, Arkoma and other basins. Mr. Dawson began his career in 1978 with Conoco (now ConocoPhillips) upon graduating with a Master of Science in Geology from San Diego State University. He earned his Bachelor of Science in Geology from the University of Michigan. James Erlandson, 32, also formerly of Burlington Resources, has been Senior Staff Reservoir Engineer since August 2006. Previously, he was team leader of the Kaybob Resource Assessment Team working in Calgary, Alberta, with responsibility for analyzing and developing regional unconventional gas plays in British Columbia and Alberta. As Mr. Erlandson progressed through assignments of increasing responsibility with Burlington, he was involved in strategic planning, acquisitions and exploitation of unconventional sand and CBM plays. He was also involved in the addition of proven gas reserves in the Western Canada Sedimentary Basin, infill program analysis and development, and the optimization of Fruitland coal wells in the San Juan Basin. Mr. Erlandson began his career in 1997 as a production engineer with Marathon Oil Company after graduating with honors from Montana Tech, where he earned his Bachelor of Science in Petroleum Engineering. Kelly Sutton, 30, has been Senior Staff Engineer since September 2006. Ms. Sutton was previously with Energen Resources, where she served as a reservoir/acquisitions engineer. While at Energen, she evaluated CBM properties in the Powder River, San Juan and Black Warrior Basins, oil properties in the Permian Basin and tight gas properties in East Texas and Northern Louisiana. Prior to Energen, she served in various reservoir and production engineering positions with Burlington Resources and Phillips Petroleum. Ms. Sutton received her Bachelor of Science in Chemical Engineering from the University of Alabama. Bradford Sutton, 33, has been Senior Staff Engineer since September 2006. Mr. Sutton was previously with Energen Resources, where he focused on CBM and tight gas development in the San Juan Basin. Prior to joining Energen, Mr. Sutton was a production engineer at Burlington Resources. During his career, he has worked on CBM development in the San Juan and Powder River Basins and conventional gas and tertiary oil development in the Permian Basin. He holds a Bachelor of Science in Petroleum Engineering from the University of Alabama. Internet Website We are required to file annual, quarterly and other reports and proxy statements with the SEC. Our SEC filings are available to the public over the internet at the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov or from our website at www.bpi-energy.com. You may also read and copy any documents that we file at the SEC’s public reference room located at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the operations of the public reference room. In addition, we make available free of charge through our internet website our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Additionally, charters for the committees of our Board of Directors and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics can be found at our website under the heading “Highlights” on the “Corporate Governance” page. Shareholders may request copies of these documents by writing to our Investor Relations Department at 30775 Bainbridge Road, Suite 280, Solon, Ohio 44139. 15 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. You should be aware that the occurrence of any of the events described in this Risk Factors section or elsewhere in this report could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In evaluating us, you should consider carefully, among other things, the factors and specific risks set forth below, and in documents we incorporate by reference. Our current revenues are minimal and not sufficient to support our operations. If we are unable to raise additional financing, we may not be able to carry out our long-term plans. The wells that we have drilled began producing CBM for sale only in January 2005, and the amount of CBM that we are currently selling is not significant. We are not currently generating net income or positive cash flow from operations. Even if we achieve increased revenues and positive cash flow from operations in the future, we anticipate increased exploration, development and other capital expenditures as we continue to explore and develop our CBM rights. Our Credit Agreement with GasRock provides for an initial commitment of $10.2 million, of which we have drawn $9.1 million. Additional advances beyond the initial $10.2 million commitment are at GasRock’s discretion. Therefore, in order to achieve our long-term plans and maintain a viable business, we will need to raise additional financing, either by convincing GasRock to advance additional funds or obtaining financing from new sources. If we are unable to raise additional financing, we will likely be unable to carry out our long-term plans, which would negatively impact the value of your investment in us. Even if we continue to demonstrate the commercial viability of CBM wells in the Illinois Basin, we may encounter difficulty in raising additional capital on favorable terms. Interest rates and investor expectations and demands are subject to change, and any change in these areas could have a negative effect on the financing terms that we are able to obtain. In addition, the terms of any new financing may adversely affect your investment. If we issue shares of preferred stock or additional common shares, institutional investors may negotiate terms equal to or more favorable than market prices or the terms of our prior offerings, resulting in dilution to existing shareholders. As with our current GasRock financing, debt financing could result in the lenders having a claim to assets prior to the rights of our shareholders, divert cash flow to service the debt, and restrict operations through compliance with lenders’ restrictions. Any such terms could adversely affect the return that you receive on your investment in us. We have incurred significant operating losses since our inception and may not achieve profitability in the future. We have experienced significant operating losses and negative cash flow from operations since our inception, and we currently have an accumulated deficit. During our fiscal year ended July 31, 2006 we incurred a net loss of $8,836,244, and during our fiscal year ended July 31, 2007 we incurred a net loss of $20,640,488. As of July 31, 2007, we have an accumulated deficit of $47,834,016. We anticipate that our operating costs and capital expenditures will continue to grow as we continue to explore and develop our CBM rights. Even if we significantly grow our revenues from the sale of CBM, it is possible that our increased operating costs and capital expenditures will prevent us from generating net income. In addition, in the future we could incur greater than expected drilling or other operating expenses, we could discover that our properties are not commercially viable, or gas prices could decline significantly. Any of these events would have a significantly negative impact on our ability to generate net income. If we are unable to achieve profitability at any time in the near future, the value of your investment in us could be adversely affected. CBM exploration is speculative in nature and may not result in operating revenues or profits. The Illinois Basin is largely untested for commercial CBM production. In addition, we have evaluated the CBM potential in only a relatively small part of our acreage rights. Only an extended production history of the wells that we drill will indicate whether our wells will be commercially productive over the long-term. We could determine in the future that the Illinois Basin does not contain enough CBM for commercially viable operations, or that the conditions in the Illinois Basin are not conducive for commercially viable operations. Any such determination would have a significantly negative effect on your investment in us. 16 Table of Contents Future wells that we drill may not be successful, due to low CBM content in the coal, low permeability, unusually low or high water quantities, low water quality, incorrect forecasts or other factors. We cannot be sure that completed wells will produce enough CBM to recover our capital investments. We can provide no assurance that the exploration and development of our projects will occur as scheduled, or that actual results will be in line with expectations. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain. Factors that can delay or prevent drilling operations, include: • unexpected drilling conditions; • pressure or irregularities in formations; • equipment failures or accidents; • shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs or the delivery of equipment; • the inability to hire personnel or engage other third parties for drilling and completion services; • the inability to obtain regulatory approvals to drill CBM wells where planned; • litigation initiated by surface owners attempting to prevent us from utilizing the surface land for our operations; and • the inability to sell CBM production, due to the loss of access to the pipelines into which CBM production is sold or an oversupply of natural gas in the market. Wells on some projects could require substantial dewatering ahead of production, which could delay the start of production by months and increase completion costs. Continued high volume water pumping during production would increase operating costs. If we experience significant setbacks in drilling, completing and operating wells, or significantly increased costs due to unexpected conditions, our financial performance will suffer. Any decline in natural gas prices could negatively impact our ability to attain profitable operations. Our ability to grow our revenues, and ultimately attain profitable operations, will depend not only on our ability to place CBM wells into production but also on the market for natural gas. Natural gas prices have historically been volatile, and they are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. If natural gas prices decline significantly for extended periods of time, the CBM wells that we place into production may not be commercially viable and we might not be able to generate enough revenues to reach profitable operations. Our failure to reach profitable operations would negatively affect the value of your investment in us. If we are unable to repay or refinance the amounts advanced to us by GasRock when they become due, GasRock could enforce its security interest in our assets. The obligations under our Credit Agreement with GasRock are due and payable on July 25, 2008, unless GasRock extends this due date. In addition, if we default under the Credit Agreement, such as by breaching a restrictive covenant or one of the other provisions of the agreement, GasRock could accelerate the due date of our obligations. BPI Energy’s obligations under the Credit Agreement are secured by a first priority security interest in substantially all of BPI Energy’s properties and assets, including all of our CBM acreage rights and all of our wells at our Southern Illinois Basin Project. If we are unable to repay or refinance the amounts advanced to us by GasRock when they become due, GasRock could enforce its security interest in our assets. If GasRock took such action, the value of your investment in us would be significantly and adversely affected. The limits imposed on our subsidiary BPI Energy in our Credit Agreement with GasRock could prevent us from acquiring additional acreage or completing joint ventures or cause us to lose access to the facility. Our Credit Agreement with GasRock imposes various restrictive covenants on our subsidiary BPI Energy, including limitations on its ability to effect mergers or acquisitions and make investments. In addition, BPI Energy must maintain (i) a current ratio of at least 1.0 (excluding from the calculation of current liabilities any advances outstanding under the Credit Agreement) and (ii) a loan-to-value ratio greater than 1.0 to 1.0 for the period 17 Table of Contents commencing on September 30, 2008 and ending on March 31, 2010 and 0.7 to 1.0 thereafter. If BPI Energy fails to maintain these ratios a default under the Credit Agreement could result. Such a default would permit GasRock to accelerate the due date of our obligations and deny us access to further advances. BPI Energy’s compliance with these restrictive covenants and ratios could also prevent us from acquiring additional acreage or entering into joint ventures or other strategic transactions. If BPI Energy’s compliance with these provisions overly restricts our business activities, or its breach of such provisions causes us to lose access to the facility, our business and your investment in us could be adversely affected. Our hedging transactions may limit our potential gains or expose us to losses. Under the terms of our Credit Agreement with GasRock, we are required to hedge at least 75% of projected production from our proved developed producing properties. These transactions could limit our potential gains if natural gas prices were to rise substantially over the prices established by the contracts. In addition, such transactions may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which: • our production is less than expected; • the counterparties to our contracts fail to perform under the contracts; or • our production costs on the contracted production significantly increase. The financial loss resulting from any of these events could be significant in relation to our revenues and cash balances, which could have a significantly negative effect on our business. We could experience delays in securing drilling equipment and crews, which would cause us to fail to meet our drilling plans and negatively impact our operations. We utilize drilling contractors to perform all of the drilling on our projects. We maintain a limited number of supervisory and field personnel to oversee drilling and production operations. Our plans to drill additional wells are determined in large part by the anticipated availability of acceptable drilling equipment and crews. We do not currently have any contractual commitments that ensure we will have adequate drilling equipment or crews to achieve our drilling plans. If our anticipated levels of drilling equipment are not made available to us, we will have to modify our drilling plans, which would cause us to fail to meet our drilling plans and negatively impact our operations. If we cannot meet our drilling plans, the value of your investment in us may decline. We could lose significant portions of our CBM acreage rights if we do not place into production a sufficient number of CBM wells. The primary terms of the lease and farm-out agreements pursuant to which we hold our CBM acreage rights will expire between November 2008 and April 2026, after which we will continue to hold our acreage rights only to the extent that we are producing CBM from the covered acreage. Under some of these agreements we will retain only limited acreage rights for each CBM well that we place into production. For us to maintain all of our CBM acreage rights beyond the initial terms of our lease and farm-out agreements, we will be required to significantly expand our drilling operations or renegotiate the terms of these agreements. If we are unable to retain our CBM acreage rights, our growth potential will be negatively impacted, which could cause the value of your investment in us to decline. We could encounter strong competition for properties in the Illinois Basin. The natural gas industry is highly competitive. We currently hold substantial CBM acreage rights in the Illinois Basin, but other companies may become active in the area. New entrants could have greater financial and technological resources, which might enable them to outbid us on new acreage or obtain leaseholds, option agreements or farm-out agreements for which we currently have agreements in place when our rights expire or lapse. Any loss of acreage would negatively impact the potential scope of our operations, which would likely have a negative impact on the value of your investment in us. 18 Table of Contents Because approximately 75% of our CBM acreage rights are inferior to coal mining rights covering the same properties, our affected operations could be displaced by coal mining operations, which would negatively impact our operations. Under the agreements pursuant to which we hold approximately 75% of our CBM acreage rights, our right to drill for and produce CBM is expressly subject to the mining of coal on the acreage covered by the agreement. We may not interfere with any existing coal mining operations and, under certain circumstances, may be required to cease drilling in locations where coal mining operations will be undertaken. These superior coal rights may restrict the locations where we can drill CBM wells on our projects and may cause some of our CBM operations to be displaced by coal operations. Any such displacement could cover a significant portion of our CBM acreage rights. If we face significant restrictions on where we can drill our CBM wells or a significant number of our CBM wells are displaced by coal mining operations, our operations and financial performance will be negatively impacted. The CBM rights that we have acquired under lease and option agreements are subject to a number of uncertainties, which, when resolved, could cause us to lose some of our CBM rights. Under the terms of the lease agreements pursuant to which we have acquired most of our CBM rights, we are entitled to all of the CBM rights held by our lessors in the counties covered by these agreements. However, we face a number of uncertainties regarding what rights our lessors hold. The issue of who owns CBM gas, as between the coal rights owner and the oil and gas rights owner, is uncertain in Illinois. Although the appellate court in Illinois for the district where most of our acreage rights are situated has ruled that CBM gas is owned by the coal rights owner, the issue has not been addressed by the highest court in Illinois. We believe, based on advice from legal counsel, that under Illinois law ownership will ultimately be found to lie with the coal rights owner. Based on this advice, we generally secure CBM rights from the coal owners. Some of the lessors from which we have acquired CBM rights may hold both the coal rights and the oil and gas rights for the applicable properties, but in some cases it is not certain that these lessors also hold the oil and gas rights. If any litigation in Illinois concludes that CBM rights lie with the oil and gas owner, we could lose some of our CBM rights. In addition, in some cases the extent of the coal and/or oil and gas rights held by our lessors is uncertain. We conducted no title or deed examinations prior to executing our lease agreements, and our lessors made no warranties as to the acreage or rights covered by the agreements. Although we have now conducted title and deed examinations covering much of the CBM properties under our leases, these examinations are ongoing at all of our projects. There can be no assurance that our rights under our lease agreements include all of the acreage and rights identified in the agreements until title examinations on all of the underlying properties have been completed. If any of these uncertainties is resolved unfavorably to us, we could lose some of our CBM acreage rights. Any loss of our CBM acreage rights would negatively impact our growth potential, which could cause the value of your investment in us to decline. We could incur significant costs in connection with disputes over surface rights, which would negatively impact our financial performance. We have been subject to legal complaints regarding the extent of the surface rights that derive from our CBM rights. On occasion, the owners of properties that are adjacent to our drilling locations have challenged our right to cross their property in accessing our drilling locations and our right to lay gas and water flow lines across their property. The extent of our rights in respect of these issues is uncertain in Illinois. If disputes regarding our surface rights are not resolved in our favor, we may be required to acquire surface rights or access our drilling locations and lay gas and water flow lines in inefficient ways, which would cause us to incur increased operating costs. In addition, we could incur significant costs in legal disputes over our surface rights. If for any reason these operating or legal costs increase significantly, our financial performance will suffer. 19 Table of Contents We could incur substantial costs to comply with environmental regulations, and our failure to comply with environmental regulations could result in significant fines and/or penalties, either of which could adversely affect our operations. Our operations are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. Although we believe that our operations to date have been conducted in compliance with these regulations, new more restrictive laws or regulations could be adopted, which could force us to expend significant resources to comply with the new requirements. Because CBM exploration is relatively new in the Illinois Basin, the governmental agencies that regulate us, including the Illinois Department of Natural Resources’ Office of Mines and Minerals, may determine that new laws and regulations are required to govern the growing industry. CBM operations are technologically different from conventional oil and gas operations, and these agencies may determine that existing regulations, which are generally focused on the oil and gas industry, are not sufficient for CBM operations. As CBM activity increases in the Illinois Basin, unexpected regulatory issues may develop, which could impose additional compliance costs on us. Any significant increase in compliance costs could negatively impact our results of operations and could prevent our properties from being commercially viable. The occurrence of a significant adverse event that is not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. The exploration for and development and production of CBM involves a variety of operating risks, including the possibility of fire, explosion and blow-out from abnormal formation pressure. It is not always possible to fully insure against such risks. An uninsured or underinsured loss could adversely impact our financial condition. We will incur increased costs as a result of registering in the United States. In December 2005, we became subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. As an SEC registrant, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a Canadian public company. We will incur costs associated with complying with the rules and regulations of the SEC, including those adopted under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We currently estimate that these costs will total approximately $1 million on an annual basis. In addition, we continue to be subject to certain securities laws and reporting requirements of the British Columbia Securities Commission and the Alberta Securities Commission. These dual reporting obligations will result in increased compliance costs, which could adversely affect our financial performance. There is not a substantial amount of trading in our common shares, which could prevent you from selling your common shares at acceptable prices or at all. Our common shares are currently traded on the American Stock Exchange. There is not a substantial amount of trading in our common shares on the American Stock Exchange. We are not certain that a more active trading market in the stock will develop, or that it will be sustained if it does develop. Because the market for our common shares is limited and is likely to remain limited in the near future, you may not be able to sell your common shares at acceptable prices or at all. The American Stock Exchange has adopted standards under which it will normally give consideration to removing a security from listing. However, the standards in no way limit the Exchange and it may at any time, in view of the circumstances in each case, remove a security from listing when in its opinion such security is unsuitable for continued trading on the Exchange. These standards include, but are not limited to, consideration of: (i) a company’s financial condition and/or operating results; (ii) the company’s aggregate market value; (iii) whether a company’s common stock sells for a substantial period of time at a low price per share; and (iv) whether a company has complied with its obligations under American Stock Exchange and SEC rules. It is possible that the Exchange could make a determination in the future that our stock is unsuitable for continued trading on the Exchange. If our stock is delisted from the Exchange, it will likely be difficult to effect sales of our stock. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 20 Table of Contents 