D. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors, in addition to the other information and financial data contained in this annual report, should be considered carefully in evaluating our company and its business. -4- Table of Contents Risks related to our company and our business Our ability to obtain additional capital is uncertain, and if we do not obtain it, we may not be able to fund our operations and the development of our products and may be required to suspend, curtail or terminate our operations. We will require substantial additional capital resources in order to conduct our operations and develop our products. We had cash and cash equivalents of A$3.1 million (US$2.7 million) as of June 30, 2007, and we used A$25.0 million (US$19.7 million) in operating activities for the year then ended. During the three months ended June 30, 2007 we (i) consummated private placements of ordinary shares with aggregate net proceeds of approximately A$16.4 million (US$13.3 million); (ii) received A$1.8 million (US$1.5 million) of initial cash proceeds from the sale of our AION Diagnostics, Inc. subsidiary; (iii) redeemed in full our convertible promissory note originally issued to Sandell in November 2005, as amended, by a single payment of A$16.5 million (US$13.7 million); and (iv) redeemed in full our convertible promissory notes issued in September 2006 to other institutional investors (“Absolute”) for an aggregate amount of A$1.1 million (US$885,000). In July 2007, we consummated offerings of 14,402,000 units consisting of ADSs and warrants and 20,547,945 units of ordinary shares and warrants for aggregate net proceeds of approximately A$21.0 million (US$18.0 million). For the period from June 30, 2007 to September 15, 2007, we used cash, predominantly for operating activities, of approximately A$4.2 million (US$3.5 million), and as a result, as of September 15, 2007, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately A$20.3 million (US$16.9 million). Our existing cash resources, including the approximate A$21.0 million of net proceeds from our July 2007 share issue, will not be sufficient to fund the expenditures necessary over the next several years to support the commercial introduction of any of our product candidates and to continue our operations until the time of such introduction. We believe that existing cash balances are sufficient to continue operations through at least June 30, 2008. However, we will need to raise additional funds through a private or public offering of equity or debt securities prior to June 30, 2008 to continue to conduct our operations as we have been conducting them to date including the development of our current product candidates for commercialization. If we do not raise additional funds prior to June 30, 2008, we will be required to scale back our operations significantly in order to continue as a going concern. The Company is unable to predict the types of financing that may be available to us, but would prefer to raise funds through the sale of equity versus debt securities. The terms and amount of any such financing will depend upon, amongst other things, the progress of our research and development activities, the price of the Company’s stock and general market conditions. The Company’s goal would be to raise sufficient funds in order to conduct its operations as currently conducted through at least June 30, 2009. The timing and amount of this and other future capital requirements will depend upon many factors, including, but not limited to: • the extent of Retisert royalties and the amount of time that elapses until the advance royalty agreement with Bausch & Lomb related to the Retisert product is completed, after which we will be entitled to receive Retisert royalty payments; • the success and continued activity under our collaborative research and licensing agreement with Pfizer; • the success under our collaborative research and licensing agreement with Alimera Sciences and the costs that we incur under that agreement; • the scope and extent of our operations; • our ability to secure additional collaborations; • the successful completion and timing of satisfaction of development milestones; • the magnitude and scope of, and continued progress in, our other research and development programs; • our ability to establish and maintain strategic arrangements for research, development, clinical testing, manufacturing and marketing; • the cost of operating as a public company under both Australian and U.S. law and any potential reincorporation transaction; • the progress with pre-clinical and clinical trials for our product candidates; • the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; and • the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining, defending and enforcing patent claims. -5- Table of Contents We will attempt to acquire additional funding through strategic collaborations, public or private equity financings, capital lease transactions or other financing sources that may be available. Additional financing may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Additional equity financings could result in significant dilution to stockholders. Further, in the event that additional funds are obtained through arrangements with collaborative partners, these arrangements may require us to relinquish rights to some of our technologies, product candidates or products. As we are no longer an FPI, there are additional restrictions on our sales of our securities outside of the United States, which could limit our ability to access some capital markets in the future. In addition, if we reincorporate our company within the U.S. or take other actions with respect to the concentration of our operations in the U.S., it could adversely affect our ability to sell securities in other jurisdictions. Lastly, if the ASX delists our shares or NASDAQ delists our ADSs, we may encounter difficulties in raising capital. If sufficient capital is not available in the near term and in the longer term, we may not be able to fund our operations and may be required to suspend, curtail or terminate our operations or delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research and development programs. We have a history of losses; we expect to continue to incur losses; and we may never become profitable. pSivida was formed in 2000. As primarily a research and development company, we have incurred operating losses in every year of our existence. Under A-IFRS, we incurred a net loss of A$16.8 million (US$12.7 million) for the year ended June 30, 2005, a net loss of A$28.2 million (US$21.1 million) for the year ended June 30, 2006 and a net loss of A$122.3 million (US$96.1 million) for the year ended June 30, 2007. As of June 30, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit under A-IFRS of A$179.2 million (US$137.0 million). We have not achieved profitability and expect to continue to incur net losses through at least the fiscal year ending June 30, 2010, and we may incur losses beyond that time, particularly if our Medidur or BrachySil product candidates are not approved and widely marketed and sold by that time. Even if Medidur or BrachySil is approved and marketed at some point in 2010 or beyond, sales of Medidur and BrachySil combined with royalty income from our current products and any other products and any other sources of revenue, may not be sufficient to result in profitability at that time or at any other time. As we are no longer an FPI, we will incur significant additional expense associated with compliance with the U.S. securities laws and NASDAQ listing requirements applicable to U.S. domestic issuers. We may also choose to reincorporate our company to a jurisdiction within the United States, which would require significant resources. The extent of our future losses and the time it will take for us to achieve profitability, if ever, are uncertain. On December 30, 2005, we acquired CDS, which had incurred net losses in each of its last five fiscal years (ended December 31). As a result of the acquisition, we have been receiving royalties from sales of Vitrasert, CDS’ first commercial product. However, sales of Vitrasert have declined in each of the past four years, and we do not expect that Vitrasert royalties will comprise a significant portion of our future revenue. Following regulatory approval for Retisert in April 2005, CDS entered into an advance royalty agreement with Bausch & Lomb in June 2005 pursuant to which CDS received US$3.0 million (A$3.9 million) in lieu of US$6.25 million (A$8.5 million) of Retisert royalties that otherwise would be payable under the license agreement. As of June 30, 2007, an additional US$4.7 million (A$5.5 million) of future royalties otherwise payable from the sales of Retisert must be earned before we are entitled to receive any royalty payments from Bausch & Lomb. During the year ended June 30, 2007, we decreased our assessment of the probable level of future sales of our Retisert product as a result of the actual level of Retisert sales achieved in the period and Bausch & Lomb’s decision to withdraw its European application for authorization to market Retisert. We cannot predict when, if ever, we will begin receiving full royalty payments from Bausch & Lomb. We have paid penalties pursuant to registration agreements with securities holders relating to resale registration statements, and if we are required to pay such penalties in the future, we may not have sufficient funds to do so. We have registration rights agreements that require us to file and maintain the effectiveness of registration statements for the resale of ADSs, which provide for monetary penalties in the event of our failure to do so. During the year ended June 30, 2007, we paid registration delay penalties of approximately US$2.3 million (A$2.9 million) in connection with our Sandell subordinated promissory note and our Absolute subordinated convertible notes. Further, we have not paid an aggregate of US$2.1 million (A$ 2.5 million) in registration delay penalties payable to former CDS stockholders. No such former stockholder has requested such penalties be paid and we do not expect to pay any such penalties; accordingly, we have not accrued for this obligation. As of June 30, 2007, all registration statements required to be filed under our registration agreements were effective. -6- Table of Contents Our failure or inability to maintain the effectiveness of any of our required registration statements or to adequately update information in the related prospectuses to permit resales may subject us to additional penalties under our current registration agreements or under similar agreements we may enter into in connection with future financing activities. We may not have sufficient funds to pay penalties if requested by former CDS stockholders or to pay other penalties we may incur in the future. If we are forced to do so, we may be required to suspend, curtail or terminate our operations or delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research and development programs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Most of our product candidates and planned products are based upon new and unproven technologies, and if we are unable to develop products from those technologies, we may not have sufficient revenue to continue our operations. We are currently seeking to develop products based upon our Durasert, BioSilicon and CODRUG drug delivery systems. The successful development and market acceptance of our current product candidates and potential product technologies is subject to many risks. These risks include the potential for ineffectiveness, lack of safety, unreliability, failure to receive necessary regulatory clearances or approvals and the emergence of superior or equivalent products, as well as the effect of changes in future general economic conditions. Although we have to date, developed two marketed products, Vitrasert and Retisert, which are based on our Durasert technology and have been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, for treatment of two sight-threatening eye diseases, it is uncertain whether these technologies will prove useful in other products. No products based on our BioSilicon or CODRUG technologies have to date received FDA approvals. Our failure to successfully develop our current and future products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely heavily upon patents and trade secrets to protect our proprietary technologies. If we fail to protect our intellectual property or infringe on others’ technologies, our ability to market our products may suffer. Protection of intellectual property rights is crucial to our business, since that is how we keep others from copying the innovations that are central to our existing and future products. Our success is dependent on whether we can obtain patents, defend our existing patents and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties. As of August 31, 2007, we had 105 patents and 310 pending patent applications, including patents and pending applications covering our Durasert, BioSilicon and CODRUG technologies. We expect to aggressively try to patent and protect our proprietary technologies. However, we cannot be sure that any additional patents will be issued to us as a result of our pending or future patent applications or that any of our patents will withstand challenges by others. In addition, we may not have sufficient funds to patent and protect our proprietary technologies to the extent that we would desire or at all. If we were determined to be infringing any third party patent, we could be required to pay damages, alter our products or processes, obtain licenses, pay royalties or cease certain operations. We may not be able to obtain any required licenses on commercially favorable terms, if at all. Our failure to obtain a license for any technology that we may require to commercialize our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, many of the laws of foreign countries in which we intend to operate may treat the protection of proprietary rights differently from, and may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as, laws in Australia, the United States and Patent Co-operation Treaty countries. Prior art may reduce the scope or protection of, or invalidate, patents. Previously conducted research or published discoveries may prevent patents from being granted, invalidate issued patents or narrow the scope of any protection obtained. Reduction in scope of protection or invalidation of our licensed or owned patents, or our inability to obtain patents, may enable other companies to develop products that compete with our products and product candidates on the basis of the same or similar technology. As a result, our patents and those of our licensors may not provide any or sufficient protection against competitors. While we have not been and are not currently involved in any litigation over intellectual property, such litigation may be necessary to enforce any patents issued or licensed to us or to determine the scope and validity of third party proprietary rights. We may also be sued by one or more third parties alleging that we infringe their intellectual property rights. Any intellectual property litigation would be likely to result in substantial costs to us and diversion of our efforts. If our competitors claim technology also claimed by us and if they prepare and file patent applications in the U.S. or other jurisdictions, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared -7- Table of Contents by the U.S. Patent and Trademark office or appropriate foreign patent office to determine priority of invention, which could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our efforts. Any such litigation or interference proceedings, regardless of the outcome, could be expensive and time consuming. Litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, requiring disputed rights to be licensed from third parties and/or require us to cease using certain technologies and, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and technology that are not protected by patents to maintain our competitive position. We try to protect this information by entering into confidentiality agreements with parties that have access to it, such as our corporate partners, collaborators, employees, and consultants. Any of these parties could breach these agreements and disclose our confidential information, or our competitors might learn of the information in some other way. If any material trade secret, know-how or other technology not protected by a patent were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor, our competitive position could be materially harmed. If we do not receive the necessary regulatory approvals, we will be unable to commercialize our products. Our current and future activities are and will be subject to regulation by governmental authorities in the U.S., Europe and other countries. Before we or our collaborative partners can manufacture, market and sell any of our products, approval from the FDA and/or foreign regulatory authorities is first required. Generally, in order to obtain these approvals, pre-clinical studies and clinical trials must demonstrate that each of our products is safe for human use and effective for its targeted disease. Our proposed products are in various stages of pre-clinical and clinical testing. If clinical trials for any of these products are not successful, those products cannot be manufactured and sold and will not generate revenue from sales. Clinical trials for our product candidates may fail or be delayed by many factors, including the following: • our lack of sufficient funding to pursue trials rapidly or at all; • our inability to attract clinical investigators for trials; • our inability to recruit patients in sufficient numbers or at the expected rate; • adverse side effects; • failure of the trials to demonstrate a product’s safety or efficacy; • our failure to meet FDA or other regulatory agency requirements for clinical trial design or for demonstrating efficacy for a particular product; • our inability to follow patients adequately after treatment; • changes in the design or manufacture of a product; • our inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of materials for use in clinical trials; and • governmental or regulatory delays. We had difficulty in patient recruitment for the BrachySil liver cancer trial, which, together with our desire to conserve cash resources and our perception that the pancreatic indication presented a significantly better market opportunity, resulted in our placement of that liver cancer trial on long-term hold. Results from pre-clinical testing and early clinical trials often do not accurately predict results of later clinical trials. Data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical activities are susceptible to varying interpretations which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Data from pre-clinical studies, early clinical trials and interim periods in multi-year trials are preliminary and may change, and final data from pivotal trials for such products may differ significantly. Serious adverse side effects may develop that delay, limit or prevent the regulatory approval of products, or cause their regulatory approvals to be limited or even rescinded. Additional trials necessary for -8- Table of Contents approval may not be undertaken or may ultimately fail to establish the safety and efficacy of proposed products. The FDA or other relevant regulatory agencies may not approve proposed products for manufacture and sale. In addition to testing, regulatory agencies impose various requirements on manufacturers and sellers of products under their jurisdiction, such as labeling, manufacturing practices, record keeping and reporting. Regulatory agencies may also require post-marketing testing and surveillance programs to monitor a product’s effects. Furthermore, changes in existing regulations or the adoption of new regulations could prevent us from obtaining, or affect the timing of, future regulatory approvals. At present, Vitrasert and Retisert are our only products that have been approved for sale. Medidur, BrachySil and other product candidates have not been approved and their approval in the future remains uncertain. Any product approvals we achieve could also be withdrawn for failure to comply with regulatory standards or due to unforeseen problems after the products’ marketing approval. We have a limited ability to develop and market products ourselves. If we are unable to find marketing or commercialization partners, or our marketing or commercialization partners do not successfully develop or market our products, we may be unable to effectively develop and market products on our own. We have limited product development capability and no marketing or sales staff. Developing products and achieving market acceptance for them will require extensive and substantial efforts by experienced personnel as well as expenditure of significant funds. We may not be able to establish sufficient capabilities necessary to develop products and achieve market penetration ourselves. Our business strategy includes entering into collaborative arrangements for the development and commercialization of our product candidates. The curtailment or termination of any of these arrangements could adversely affect our business, our ability to develop and commercialize our products and proposed products and our ability to fund operations. The success of these and future collaborative arrangements will depend heavily on the experience, resources, efforts and activities of our collaborators. Our collaborators have, and are expected to have, significant discretion in making these decisions. Risks that we face in connection with our collaboration strategy include the following: • our collaborative arrangements are, and are expected to be, subject to termination under various circumstances including on short notice and without cause; • we are required, and expect to be required, under our collaborative arrangements not to conduct specified types of research and development in the field that is the subject of the collaboration, limiting the areas of research and development that we can pursue; • our collaborators may develop and commercialize, either alone or with others, products that are similar to or competitive with our products; • our collaborators, consistent with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that have historically acted similarly, may for a variety of reasons change the focus of their development and commercialization efforts or decrease or fail to increase spending related to our products, limiting the ability of our products to reach their potential; • our collaborators may lack the funding or experience to develop and commercialize our products successfully or may otherwise fail to do so; and • our collaborators may not perform their obligations, in whole or in part. To the extent that we choose not to, or we are unable to, enter into future license agreements with marketing and sales partners and seek to market and sell products ourselves, we would experience increased capital requirements to develop the ability to market and sell future products. We may not be able to market or sell our technology or future products independently in the absence of such agreements. -9- Table of Contents Our current licensees may terminate their agreements with us at any time, and if they do, we may not be able to effectively develop and sell our products. Our licensees have rights of termination under our agreements with them. Exercise of termination rights by those parties may leave us temporarily or permanently without development, marketing or sales resources, which may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, our interests may not continue to coincide with those of our partners, and our partners may develop independently or with third parties, products or technologies that could compete with our products. Further, disagreements over rights or technologies or other proprietary interests may occur. We have exclusively licensed certain of our controlled drug delivery technologies to Pfizer for ophthalmic applications. Pfizer is funding research and further development and commercialization of products licensed under our agreement with them. Pfizer may terminate the agreement at any time and for any reason upon 60 days written notice. We have exclusively licensed our technology with respect to Vitrasert, Retisert and certain other ophthalmic uses to Bausch & Lomb, and with respect to Medidur for DME and certain other ophthalmic uses to Alimera Sciences. Bausch & Lomb is responsible for funding and managing the development and commercialization of all licensed products and can terminate its agreement with us at any time upon 90 days’ written notice. We are jointly funding with Alimera Sciences the development of products licensed under our agreement with them, and Alimera Sciences may terminate its agreement with us if we fail to make a development payment or may terminate the agreement with respect to a particular product if we abandon the product. Further, in the event that we fail to make development payments exceeding US$2.0 million (A$2.4 million) for a product, Alimera Sciences may complete the development using other funds and substantially reduce our economic interest in any sales of the developed product from a share of profits to a royalty. As of August 31, 2007, we have chosen not to make development payments to Alimera Sciences in an aggregate amount of approximately US$1.9 million (A$2.2 million). Alimera Sciences was incorporated in June 2003 and has limited resources. Any of Pfizer, Bausch & Lomb or Alimera Sciences may decide not to continue with or commercialize any or all of the licensed products, change strategic focus, pursue alternative technologies, develop competing products or terminate their agreements with us. While Pfizer and Bausch & Lomb have significant experience in the ophthalmic field and have substantial resources, there is no assurance as to whether, and to what extent, that experience and those resources will be devoted to our technologies. Because we do not currently have sufficient funding or internal capabilities to develop and commercialize these products and proposed products, decisions, actions, breach or termination of these agreements by Pfizer, Bausch & Lomb or Alimera Sciences could delay or stop the development or commercialization of Retisert, Medidur for DME or other of our products licensed to such entities. If our competitors and potential competitors develop products that receive regulatory approval before our product candidates are approved or reach the market prior to our product candidates or are more effective or have fewer side effects than our products or product candidates, our products or product candidates may not achieve the sales we anticipate and could be rendered obsolete. We are engaged in the rapidly evolving and competitive field of drug delivery. Our competitors include many major pharmaceutical companies and other biotechnology, drug delivery and medical products companies. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technological, research and development, marketing and personnel resources than us. Our competitors may succeed in developing alternate technologies and products that in comparison to the products we have and are seeking to develop: • are more effective and easier to use; • are more economical; • have fewer side effects, or • otherwise render them less competitive or obsolete. These competitors may also have greater experience in developing products, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals or clearances and manufacturing and marketing products or technologies. -10- Table of Contents We believe that pharmaceutical, drug delivery and biotechnology companies, research organizations, governmental entities, universities, hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and individual scientists are seeking to develop the drugs, therapies, products, approaches or methods to treat our targeted diseases or their underlying causes. For many of our targeted diseases, competitors have alternate therapies that are already commercialized or are in various stages of development ranging from discovery to advanced clinical trials. Any of these drugs, therapies, products, approaches or methods may receive government approval or gain market acceptance more rapidly than our products and proposed products, may offer therapeutic or cost advantages or may cure our targeted diseases or their underlying causes completely, which could reduce demand for our products and proposed products and could render them noncompetitive or obsolete. For example, sales of Vitrasert for the treatment of cytomegalovirus, or CMV, retinitis, a disease that affects people with late-stage AIDS, have declined significantly, because of new treatments that delay the onset of late-stage AIDS. Our competitive position is based upon our ability, alone or in collaboration with others, to: • create and maintain scientifically-advanced technology and proprietary products and processes; • attract and retain qualified personnel; • develop safe and efficacious products; • obtain patent or other protection for our products and processes; • obtain required government approvals on a timely basis; • manufacture products on a cost-effective basis; and • successfully market products. If we are not able to compete effectively, our business could be adversely affected. Problems associated with international business operations could affect our ability to manufacture and sell our products. If we encounter such problems, our costs could increase and our development of products could be delayed. We currently maintain offices in the U.S., the U.K. and Australia. BrachySil is produced for us in Germany and the U.K., and BioSilicon is produced in-house and by third party contractors in the U.K. We have research and development facilities in the UK and the U.S. and we intend to license products for sale and/or sell products in most major world healthcare markets. A number of risks are inherent in our international strategy. In order for us to license and manufacture our products, we must obtain country and jurisdiction-specific regulatory approvals or clearances to comply with regulations regarding safety and quality. We may not be able to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals or clearances in such countries, and we may be required to incur significant costs in obtaining or maintaining foreign regulatory approvals or clearances. In addition, our operations and revenues may be subject to a number of risks associated with foreign commerce, including the following: • staffing and managing foreign operations; • political and economic instability; • foreign currency exchange fluctuations; • foreign tax laws, tariffs and freight rates and charges; • timing and availability of export licenses; • inadequate protection of intellectual property rights in some countries; and • obtaining required governmental approvals. -11- Table of Contents If we encounter problems with product manufacturing, we could experience delays in product development and commercialization, which would adversely affect our future profitability. Our ability to conduct timely preclinical and clinical research and development programs, obtain regulatory approvals, commercialize our product candidates and fulfill our contract manufacturing obligations to others will depend, in part, upon our ability to manufacture our products, either directly or through third parties, in accordance with FDA and other regulatory requirements. We currently have BioSilicon production capability at our facility and under contract in the UK for use in internal and collaborative research. BrachySil is currently manufactured under contract, in accordance with applicable current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP. We currently manufacture clinical supplies of Medidur pursuant to our agreement with Alimera Sciences. We are also obligated to manufacture all clinical supplies pursuant to our agreement with Pfizer, but only to the extent required in the research plan,. We could experience delays in development or commercialization of our proposed products if we are unable to manufacture by ourselves, or to source third parties to manufacture, BioSilicon, BrachySil or other product candidates. We may not be able to manufacture our proposed products successfully or have a third party manufacture them in a cost-effective manner. If we are unable to develop our own manufacturing facilities or to obtain or retain third-party manufacturing on acceptable terms, we may not be able to conduct certain future pre-clinical and clinical testing or to supply commercial quantities of our products. We have licensed to Pfizer the exclusive rights to manufacture commercial quantities of ophthalmic products covered by its license agreement with us. We have licensed to Bausch & Lomb the exclusive rights to manufacture commercial quantities of Vitrasert, Retisert and other products covered by its license agreement with us. We have licensed to Alimera Sciences the rights to manufacture commercial quantities of Medidur for DME, if approved for marketing, and other products covered by its license agreement with us. Our current reliance on third party manufacturers for some of our products entails risks, including: • the possibility that third parties may not comply with the FDA’s cGMP regulations, other regulatory requirements, and those of similar foreign regulatory bodies, and may not employ adequate quality assurance practices; • supply disruption, deterioration in product quality or breach of a manufacturing or license agreement by the third party because of factors beyond our control; • the possible termination or non-renewal of a manufacturing or licensing agreement with a third party at a time that is costly or inconvenient to us; and • our inability to identify or qualify an alternative manufacturer in a timely manner, even if contractually permitted to do so. If third-party reimbursement and health care providers do not cover the cost of our products, market acceptance could be limited. In both domestic and foreign markets, our ability to commercialize our products will depend, in part, upon the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors, such as government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the price and cost-effectiveness of medical products. If our products are not considered cost-effective, third-party payors may limit reimbursement. Government and other third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new therapeutic products and by refusing, in some cases, to provide any coverage for uses of approved products for disease indications for which they have not been granted regulatory approval. If government and third-party payors do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for uses of our products, the market acceptance of our products would be limited. There have been a number of U.S. federal and state proposals during the last few years to subject the pricing of pharmaceuticals to government control and to make other changes to the health care system of the U.S. It is uncertain what legislative proposals will be adopted or what actions federal, state or private payors for health care goods and services may take in response to any health care reform proposals or legislation. Similar health care -12- Table of Contents reforms may also be implemented outside of the U.S. We cannot predict the effect health care reforms may have on our business. If we fail to retain some or all of our key personnel, then our business could suffer. We are dependent upon the principal members of our management, administrative and scientific staff. In addition, we believe that our future success in developing our products and achieving a competitive position will depend to a large extent on whether we can attract and retain additional qualified management and scientific personnel. There is strong competition for such personnel within the industry in which we operate and we may not be able to continue to attract such personnel either to Malvern in the United Kingdom or to Massachusetts, where much of our research and development is conducted. As we do not have large numbers of employees and our products are unique and highly specialized, the loss of the services of one or more of the senior management or scientific staff, or the inability to attract and retain additional personnel and develop expertise as needed, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we are subject to product liability suits and do not have sufficient insurance to cover damages, our ability to fund research and development would be negatively impacted. The testing, manufacturing, and future marketing and sale of the products utilizing our technologies involves risks that product liability claims may be asserted against us or our licensees. Our current clinical trial insurance may not be adequate or continue to be available, and we may be unable to obtain adequate product liability insurance on reasonable commercial terms, if at all. In the event clinical trial insurance is not adequate, our ability to continue with planned research and development in the relevant area could be negatively impacted. We have experienced changes in our business, and if we fail to effectively manage these changes, we may experience increased expenses. As a result of our acquisition of CDS, we experienced a significant change in our business. Our business spans various geographies. Continued operations in multiple locations may place significant strains on our managerial, financial and other resources. The rate of any future expansion, in combination with our technologies and products, may demand a level of managerial effectiveness in anticipating, planning, coordinating and meeting our operational needs which we may not be able to successfully provide. In addition, if we make additional acquisitions or divestitures, we could encounter difficulties that harm our business. We may have difficulty integrating the acquired personnel, operations, products or technologies. In addition, acquisitions may distract our management and employees and increase our expenses. Any additional acquisitions may not be successful. We may also sell businesses or assets as part of our strategy or if we receive offers from third parties. If we do so, we may sell an asset or business for less than its full value or may lose valuable opportunities attendant to such asset or business. If we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations, our ability to manufacture and commercialize products may be adversely affected. Medical and biopharmaceutical research and development involves the controlled use of hazardous materials, such as radioactive compounds and chemical solvents. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations in the U.S. and abroad governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of such materials and waste products. We could be subject to both criminal liability and civil damages in the event of an improper or unauthorized release of, or exposure of individuals to, hazardous materials. In addition, claimants may sue us for injury or contamination that results from our use or the use by third parties of these materials, and our liability may exceed our total assets. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations is expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development or production efforts or harm our operating results. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results on a timely basis or prevent or detect errors in our financial statements, and investor confidence and the market price of our shares and ADSs may be adversely affected. -13- Table of Contents Our management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2007 pursuant to section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related SEC rules and concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of June 30, 2007. Specifically, management identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is defined as a significant deficiency, or combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements will not be prevented or detected. The material weakness that management identified relates to an inadequate amount of accounting and finance personnel sufficiently trained to address certain of the major transactions and complex accounting and financial reporting matters that arise from time-to-time. This material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting also resulted in a conclusion by our management that disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of June 30, 2007. See Item 15T. “Controls and Procedures” for additional discussion regarding our material weakness. We are in the process of addressing our material weakness and will seek to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. If we are not able to effectively address the identified material weakness or otherwise fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or effective disclosure controls and procedures, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results in a timely manner or prevent errors or fraud, and investor confidence and the market price of our shares and ADSs may be adversely affected. Our operating results could be adversely affected as a result of the impact of amortization or impairment of other intangibles, which could adversely affect the price of your securities. In connection with our acquisition of CDS and of pSiMedica, we recorded significant amounts of goodwill, patents, licenses and acquired in-process research and development, or IPR&D, as well as deferred tax liability. Goodwill and acquired IPR&D are not subject to amortization, but are subject to at least an annual impairment analysis, which may result in an impairment charge. If a project included in acquired IPR&D is successfully developed and available for commercial use, it will become subject to amortization over its then estimated useful life. Patents and licenses are amortized over the estimated useful life of the related assets. Amortization and impairment charges may adversely affect the price of our shares and ADSs. During the six months ended December 31, 2006, our market capitalization decreased to a level significantly less than the carrying value of our net assets at that date. Also, during December 2006, in response to a need to conserve cash, we implemented certain cost reduction measures. One impact of these measures was a delay in the expected time period during which we believed certain BrachySil product candidates could first be approved and begin generating sales. Additionally, during December 2006, our assessment of the probable level of future sales of our Retisert product decreased as a result of both information provided by a third party and the actual level of sales achieved during the six month period. Under both A-IFRS and U.S. GAAP, these represented triggering events that required us to evaluate the recoverability of our intangible assets, including goodwill. Under A-IFRS, we recorded an asset impairment charge related to our intangible assets of A$83.4 million, and did not record any impairment under U.S. GAAP. At June 30, 2007, as required annually under both A-IFRS and U.S. GAAP, we conducted a further review of the recoverability of our intangible assets. During the fourth quarter, a combination of factors – (i) difficulty in patient recruitment for the BrachySil liver trial; (ii) management perception of the more favorable economic potential of the pancreatic cancer product candidate; and (iii) our desire to conserve cash resources – resulted in management’s decision to place the liver cancer trial on long-term hold. In addition, in July 2007 we received formal confirmation of our prior understanding from industry sources that Bausch and Lomb had withdrawn its European application, originally filed in September 2006, for authorization to market Retisert. On the basis of these specific circumstances, we further evaluated the recoverable amounts of the above intangible assets utilizing the same methodology that had been applied in December 2006, including the same discount rates and cost of equity for the Company. Under A-IFRS, we recorded additional asset impairment charges related to our intangible assets of A$11.1 million, resulting in total impairment charges for the year ended June 30, 2007 of A$94.4 million. Under U.S. GAAP, we recorded an impairment charge of A$53.5 million related to Retisert and no impairment charge related to the pSiMedica patents and licenses. Subsequent to the asset impairment described above, annual amortization under A-IFRS for the remaining carrying value of Retisert will be approximately A$1.2 million (based on the June 30, 2007 exchange rate). Amortization of the remaining carrying value of the pSiMedica patents and -14- Table of Contents licenses under A-IFRS will be approximately A$448,000 per year based on a revised estimated remaining useful life of 10.5 years (based on the June 30, 2007 exchange rate). For the year ended June 30, 2007, total impairment charges under A-IFRS were A$94.4 million and under U.S. GAAP were A$53.5 million. Risks related to our being headquartered and incorporated outside of the United States You may have difficulty in effecting service of legal process and enforcement of judgments against us or our management. We are a public company limited by shares, registered and operating under the Australian Corporations Act 2001. One of our directors and certain management personnel reside outside the U.S, and substantially all or a substantial portion of the assets of those persons are located outside the U.S. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service on such persons in the U.S. or to enforce, in foreign courts, judgments against such persons obtained in U.S. courts and predicated on the federal securities laws of the U.S. Furthermore, approximately 30% of our directly owned assets are located outside the U.S., and, as such, any judgment obtained in the U.S. against us may not be collectible within the U.S. There is doubt as to the enforceability in the Commonwealth of Australia, in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts, of civil liabilities predicated solely upon federal or state securities laws of the U.S., especially in the case of enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts where the defendant has not been properly served in Australia. Risks related to our stock and our ADSs If we are a passive foreign investment company, holders of our shares and ADSs may suffer adverse tax consequences. U.S. holders of our ADSs may experience unfavorable tax consequences if we are treated as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, for any year during which the U.S. holder owned our ADSs. In general, we are a PFIC for any taxable year if either (1) 75% or more of our gross income in the taxable year is passive income, or (2) 50% or more of the average value of our assets in the taxable year produces, or is held for the production of, passive income. We were likely a PFIC for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005. Although not free from doubt, we believe we should not be classified as a PFIC for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2006 and 2007. For example, if a U.S. holder disposes of an ADS at a gain, and during any year of its holding period we were a PFIC, then such gain would be taxable as ordinary income and not as capital gain and would be subject to additional taxation based on the length of time the U.S. holder held such stock. Most of the tax consequences of our being a PFIC may be mitigated if the U.S. holder makes certain elections as described in Item 10.E of this Annual Report on Form 20-F under “Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations”. Holders of our ADSs may have limited rights relative to holders of our ordinary shares in certain circumstances. The rights of holders of ADSs with respect to voting of ordinary shares and receiving certain distributions may be limited in certain respects by the deposit agreement entered into by us and Citibank, N.A. For example, although ADS holders are entitled under the deposit agreement, subject to any applicable provisions of Australian law and of our constitution, to instruct the depositary as to the exercise of their voting rights pertaining to the ordinary shares represented by the American Depositary Shares, and the depositary has agreed that it will vote the ordinary shares so represented in accordance with such instructions, ADS holders may not receive notices sent by the depositary in time to ensure that the depositary will vote the ordinary shares. This means that holders of ADSs may not be able to exercise their right to vote. In addition, under the deposit agreement, the depositary has the right to restrict distributions to holders of the ADSs in the event that it is unlawful or impractical to make such distributions. We have no obligation to take any action to permit distributions to holders of our American Depositary Receipts, or ADRs. As a result, holders of ADRs may not receive distributions made by us. -15- Table of Contents Our share and ADS prices are volatile, which may result from events from within the company as well as factors outside of our control. If we experience low trading volume or if our securities are delisted from the ASX or NASDAQ, you may have difficulty selling your securities. Between December 2000 and September 21, 2007, the closing price of our ordinary shares has ranged from A$0.09 to A$1.44 per share on the ASX, and between January 27, 2005 and September 21, 2007, the closing price of our ADSs has ranged from US$0.76 to US$12.14 on the NASDAQ Global Market. The price of our ordinary shares and ADSs may be affected by developments directly affecting our business and by developments out of our control or unrelated to us. The biotechnology sector in particular, and the stock market generally, are vulnerable to abrupt changes in investor sentiment. Prices of securities and trading volume of companies in the biotechnology industry, including ours, can swing dramatically in ways unrelated to, or that bear a disproportionate relationship to, operating performance. Our ordinary share and ADS prices and their trading volumes may fluctuate based on a number of factors including, but not limited to: • clinical trial results and other product and technological developments and innovations; • FDA and other governmental regulatory actions, receipt and timing of approvals of our proposed products, and any denials and withdrawals of approvals; • competitive factors including new product ideas and technologies, clinical trial results and approvals of competitive products in our markets; • advancements with respect to treatment of the diseases targeted by our proposed products; • developments relating to collaborative partners, including execution and termination of agreements, achievement of milestones and receipt of payments; • availability and cost of capital and our financial and operating results; • changes in reimbursement policies or other practices relating to our proposed products or the pharmaceutical industry generally; • meeting, exceeding or failing to meet analysts’ or investors’ expectations, and changes in evaluations and recommendations by securities analysts; • economic, industry and market conditions, changes or trends; and • other factors unrelated to us or the biotechnology industry. In addition, low trading volume may increase the price volatility of our securities. Trading volumes in our ordinary shares and in our ADSs on the NASDAQ Global Market has historically been low. Further, because each of our ADSs represents ten of our ordinary shares, trading volume in our ADSs may be lower than that for our ordinary shares. A thin trading market could cause the price of our securities to fluctuate significantly more than the stock market as a whole. For example, trades involving a relatively small number of our ADSs may have a greater impact on the trading price for our ADSs than would be the case if their trading volume were higher. Holders of our shares and ADSs may not be able to liquidate a position in our ADSs in the desired time or at the desired price. We must continue to meet continued listing requirements to maintain the listing of our shares on the ASX and our ADSs on NASDAQ, including a requirement of NASDAQ that the closing bid price of our ADS remain above US$1.00 per ADS. If our shares were delisted from ASX or our ADSs were de-listed from NASDAQ, you may have difficulty in disposing of your shares or ADSs. The fact that we do not expect to pay cash dividends may lead to decreased prices for our stock. We have never paid a cash dividend on our ordinary shares and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends. We intend to retain future cash earnings, if any, for reinvestment in the development and expansion of our business. -16- Table of Contents If the holders of our outstanding warrants and stock options exercise their warrants and options, your ownership may be diluted and our stock price may decline. The issuance of our ordinary shares or ADSs upon exercise of the outstanding warrants and stock options would result in dilution to the interests of other holders of our ADSs and ordinary shares. As of August 31, 2007, we had outstanding warrants and stock options to acquire 46,683,782 ADSs (466,837,820 ordinary shares), or approximately 63.9% of our total outstanding shares as of August 31, 2007, including: • warrants to purchase 44,523,724 ADSs (445,237,241 ordinary shares); and • stock options to purchase the equivalent of 2,160,058 ADSs (21,600,579 ordinary shares). The warrant exercise prices may be adjusted under certain circumstances, including, among others, in the event we issue securities in a rights offering at a lower price than the exercise price, or in the event that we issue a share dividend or otherwise recapitalize our shares. Any such downward adjustment of the warrant exercise prices could result in a higher number of ADSs or ordinary shares being issueable, resulting in further potential dilution to existing shareholders. Future issuances and sales of our stock could dilute your ownership or restrict our operations or encumber our assets, which could cause our stock or ADS prices to decline. We intend to continue to seek to finance our operations through the issuance of equity and securities convertible into or exercisable for equity, if feasible, including by way of the public equity markets, private financings and debt. If we raise additional capital through the issuance of equity or securities convertible into or exercisable for equity, existing holders of our securities may experience dilution, which may be significant. The additional securities issued may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to, or in addition to, those of the holders of our ADSs and ordinary shares. Further, the terms of such securities or agreements relating to such securities may restrict our operations or actions or encumber or our assets. Additional financing may not be available to us on favorable terms, and financing available at less favorable terms may lead to more substantial dilution of existing shareholders. As a result, the price of our stock or our ADS’s could decline. Pfizer owns a significant percentage of our ordinary shares and therefore may be able to influence our business in ways that are less beneficial to you. To our knowledge, Pfizer currently beneficially owns approximately 13% of our ordinary shares. As a result, Pfizer may be able to exert significant influence over our board of directors and how we operate our business. The concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company. 