ITEM 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below as well as the other information contained in this annual report. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in weather patterns and seasonal fluctuations may adversely affect our operating results. Weather fluctuations may adversely affect our operating results and our ability to maintain our sales volume. Our operations may be adversely affected by unseasonably warm weather in the months of November to February and unseasonably cool weather in the months of May to August, which has the effect of diminishing customer demand for heating and air conditioning and decreasing our sales volumes. Many of our operating expenses are fixed and cannot be reduced during periods of decreased demand for our products. Accordingly, our results of operations will be negatively impacted in quarters with lower sales due to such weather fluctuations. In addition, our sales volumes and operating results in certain regions can be negatively impacted during inclement weather conditions in these regions. For example, during the summer of 2004, several hurricanes and other tropical weather systems struck the southeastern United States resulting in an estimated $6.2 million reduction in our operating profit for 2004. In addition, our quarterly results may vary significantly. Although there is demand for our products throughout the year, in each of the past three years approximately 56% to 58% of our total sales occurred in the second and third quarters of the fiscal year. Our peak production occurs in the first and the second quarters in anticipation of our peak sales quarters. Therefore, quarterly comparisons of our sales and operating results should not be relied on as an indication of future performance, and the results of any quarterly period may not be indicative of expected results for a full year. Increased competition and technological changes and advances may reduce our market share and our future sales. The production and sale of HVAC equipment by manufacturers is highly competitive. According to industry sources, the top five domestic manufacturers (including us) represented over 80% of the unit sales in the U.S. residential and light commercial HVAC market in 2005. Our four largest competitors in this market are Carrier Corporation (a division of United Technologies Corporation), American Standard Companies (which includes 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Trane® and American Standard® brand products), Lennox International, Inc. and Rheem Manufacturing Company. Several of our competitors may have greater financial and other resources than we have. A number of factors affect competition in the HVAC industry, including an increasing emphasis on the development of more efficient HVAC products. Existing and future competitive pressures may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, including pricing pressure if our competitors improve their cost structure. In addition, our company-operated distribution centers face competition from independent distributors and dealers owned by our competitors, some of whom may be able to provide their products or services at lower prices than we can. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competition and current and future competitive pressures faced by us may adversely affect our profitability and performance. There is currently an effort underway in the United States by several companies to purchase independent distributors and dealers and consolidate them into large enterprises. These consolidated enterprises may be able to exert pressure on us to reduce prices. Additionally, these new enterprises tend to emphasize their company name, rather than the brand of the manufacturer, in their promotional activities, which could lead to dilution of the importance and value of our brand names. Future price reductions and any brand dilution caused by the consolidation among HVAC distributors and dealers could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Significant increases in the cost of raw materials and components have, and may continue to, reduce our operating margins. In addition, a decline in our relationships with key suppliers may have an adverse effect on our business. Our operations depend on the supply of various raw materials and components, including steel, copper, aluminum, refrigerants, motors and compressors, from domestic and foreign suppliers. We do not typically enter into long-term supply contracts for raw materials and components. However, our suppliers may discontinue providing products to us at attractive prices, and we may be unable to obtain such products in the future from these or other providers on the scale and within the time frames we require. If a key supplier were unable or unwilling to meet our supply requirements, we could experience supply interruptions and/or cost increases which (to the extent that we are not able to find alternate suppliers or pass these additional costs onto our customers) could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. To the extent any of our suppliers experiences a shortage of components that we purchase, we may not receive shipments of those components and, if we were unable to obtain substitute components on a timely basis, our production would be impaired. For example, in the second quarter of 2004 we experienced supply interruptions for steel, copper and aluminum. These supply interruptions resulted in periodic production disruptions and higher transportation costs. In 2004, commodity prices rose significantly to levels well above prices seen in the past decade. These commodity cost increases negatively affected our net income in 2004. Effective September 1, 2004, we increased prices by up to 5% on a majority of our products in response to these increases in commodity costs. Effective January 1, 2005, we further increased prices up to 7% on the majority of our products. Commodity costs have continued to increase. To help address the rise in commodity costs, we implemented price increases effective April 1, 2006 and October 1, 2006, with respect to certain of our products. However, these price increases may reduce demand for our products. A continued high level of commodity prices or a further increase in commodity prices could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, we may not be able to further increase the price of our products or reduce our costs to offset the higher commodity prices. Our business could be hurt by economic downturns. Our business is affected by a number of economic factors, including the level of economic activity in the markets in which we operate. A decline in economic activity in the United States could materially affect our financial condition and results of operation. Sales in the residential and commercial new construction market correlate closely to the number of new homes and buildings that are built, which in turn is influenced by factors such as interest rates, inflation, consumers’ spending habits, employment rates and other macroeconomic factors 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements over which we have no control. Any decline in economic activity as a result of these factors typically results in a decline in new construction and replacement purchases, which would result in a decrease in our sales volume and profitability. A decline in our relations with our key distributors may adversely affect our business. Our operations also depend upon our ability to maintain our relations with our independent distributors. While we generally enter into contracts with our independent distributors, these contracts typically last for one to two years and can be terminated by either party upon 30 days’ notice. If our key distributors are unwilling to continue to sell our products or if our key distributors merge with or are purchased by a competitor, we could experience a decline in sales. If we are unable to replace such distributors or otherwise replace the resulting loss of sales, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. For the year ended December 31, 2006, approximately 40% of our net sales were made through our independent distributors. Damage or injury caused by our products could result in material liabilities associated with product recalls or reworks. In the event we produce a product that is alleged to contain a design or manufacturing defect, we could be required to incur costs involved to recall or rework that product. In September 2004, we initiated a voluntary corrective action plan, or “CAP,” regarding a discontinued design of certain Amana®, Trane® and American Standard® brand PTAC units manufactured by one of our subsidiaries. Under the CAP, we will provide a new thermal limit switch to commercial and institutional PTAC owners. Installation of these switches will be at the commercial or institutional owners’ expense, except in special and limited circumstances (e.g., financial hardship). Pursuant to the CAP, we will pay the cost of installing the replacement switch for any individual homeowner having a PTAC unit in his/her residence. We have established a reserve relating to the CAP in an amount that we believe is appropriate. The costs required to recall or rework any defective products could be material, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, our reputation for safety and quality is essential to maintaining our market share. Any recalls or reworks may adversely affect our reputation as a manufacturer of quality, safe products and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may incur material costs as a result of product liability or warranty claims that would negatively affect our profitability. The development, manufacture, sale and use of our products involve a risk of product liability and warranty claims, including personal injury and property damage arising from fire, soot, mold and carbon monoxide. We currently carry insurance and maintain reserves for potential product liability claims. However, our insurance coverage may be inadequate if such claims do arise and any liability not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business. To date, we have been able to obtain insurance in amounts we believe to be appropriate to cover such liability. However, our insurance premiums may increase in the future as a consequence of conditions in the insurance business generally or our situation in particular. Any such increase could result in lower profits or cause the need to reduce our insurance coverage. In addition, a future claim may be brought against us which would have a material adverse effect on us. Any product liability claim may also include the imposition of punitive damages, the award of which, pursuant to certain state laws, may not be covered by insurance. Our product liability insurance policies have limits that if exceeded, may result in material costs that would have an adverse effect on our future profitability. In addition, warranty claims are not covered by our product liability insurance. Any product liability or warranty issues may adversely affect our reputation as a manufacturer of safe, quality products and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our financial results may be adversely impacted by higher than expected tax rates, exposure to additional income tax liabilities and the adoption of new accounting pronouncements regarding income tax accounting. Our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic composition of our earnings and tax regulations governing each region. We are subject to income taxes in multiple jurisdictions within the United States and Canada, and significant judgment is required to determine our tax liabilities. Our effective tax rate as 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements well as the actual tax ultimately payable could be adversely affected by changes in the split of earnings between jurisdictions with differing statutory tax rates, in the valuation of deferred tax assets, in tax laws or by material audit assessments, which could affect our profitability. In particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the United States, is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in the United States. In addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our profitability. In fiscal 2007, we will adopt the provisions of the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s Financial Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes” (FIN 48). We are still evaluating the effect FIN 48 will have on our consolidated statements of operations and consolidated balance sheets as implementation guidance is published. FIN 48 may require us to record our tax expense differently than we might otherwise have done so based on various estimates of probabilities of events. As a result, our tax expense may be more volatile than in the past or may be more volatile due to additional reasons. Such volatility in tax expense contributes to volatility in reported financial results. The cost of complying with laws relating to the protection of the environment and worker safety may be significant. We are subject to extensive, evolving and often increasingly stringent international, federal, state, provincial, municipal and local laws and regulations such as those relating to the protection of human health and the environment, including those limiting the discharge of pollutants into the environment and those regulating the treatment, storage, disposal and remediation of, and exposure to, solid and hazardous wastes and hazardous materials. Certain environmental laws and regulations impose strict joint and several liability on potentially responsible parties, including past and present owners and operators of sites, to clean up, or contribute to the cost of cleaning up sites at which hazardous wastes or materials were disposed or released. We are currently, and may in the future be, required to incur costs relating to the investigation or remediation of such sites, including sites where we have, or may have, disposed of our waste. See Item 1, “Business—Regulation.” We believe that we are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations, many of which provide for substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations. Nonetheless, we expect to incur expenses to maintain such compliance and it is possible that more stringent environmental laws and regulations, more vigorous enforcement or a new interpretation of existing laws and regulations could require us to incur additional costs and penalties. Further, existing or future circumstances, such as the discovery of new or materially different environmental conditions, could cause us to incur additional costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are also subject to various laws and regulations relating to health and safety. In October 2004, we reached an agreement with OSHA to resolve certain matters identified during an OSHA inspection at our Houston Furnace and Cooling plants. We did not admit any violations of the Occupational Safety and Health Act or OSHA standards, but we did agree, among other things, to address certain issues identified by OSHA during its inspection and to pay OSHA a penalty of $277,000. We have paid the penalty and are currently conducting certain actions required by this settlement, including the installation of certain machine guarding. We expect to make capital expenditures at these and other facilities to improve worker health and safety. Expenditures at these and any other facilities to assure compliance with OSHA standards could be significant, and we may become subject to additional liabilities relating to our facilities in the future. In addition, future inspections at these or other facilities may result in additional actions by OSHA. Our products are also subject to international, federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations. We are required to maintain our products in compliance with applicable current laws and regulations, and any changes which affect our current or future products could have a negative impact on our business and could result in additional compliance costs. 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Effective January 23, 2006, U.S. federal regulations mandated an increase in the minimum SEER from 10 to 13 for central air conditioners and heat pumps manufactured in the United States. The required efficiency levels for our products may be further increased in the future by the relevant regulatory authorities. Any future changes in required efficiency levels or other government regulations could adversely affect our industry and our business. We also currently use a refrigerant that the EPA is in the process of phasing out. We believe that neither the current regulations limiting refrigerants nor any reasonably anticipated phase-out of refrigerants will have a material adverse impact on our operations. See Item 1, “Business—Regulation.” Labor disputes with our employees could interrupt our operations and adversely affect our business. We are a party to a collective bargaining agreement with the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers and Affiliates that, as of December 31, 2006, represented approximately 21% of our employees. This agreement covers all hourly employees at our manufacturing facility in Fayetteville, Tennessee and is scheduled to expire in December 2009. If we are unable to successfully negotiate acceptable terms with this union, our operating costs could increase as a result of higher wages or benefits paid to union members, or if we fail to reach an agreement with the union, our operations could be disrupted. Either event could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, there have been in the past, and may be in the future, attempts to unionize our non-union facilities. If employees at our non-union facilities unionize in the future, our operating costs could increase. See Item 1, “Business—Employees.” Our business operations could be significantly disrupted if we lose members of our management team. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our executive officers and key employees, both individually and as a group. For example, we have longstanding relationships with most of our independent distributors. In many cases, these relationships have been formed over a period of years through personal networks involving our key personnel. The loss of these personnel could potentially disrupt these longstanding relationships and adversely affect our business. We have employment agreements with only two members of our senior management. Our future performance will be substantially dependent on our ability to retain and motivate our management. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or key employees could prevent us from executing our business strategy. We may be adversely affected by any natural or man-made disruptions to our distribution and manufacturing facilities. We are a manufacturing company that is heavily dependent on our manufacturing and distribution facilities in order to maintain our business and remain competitive. Any serious disruption to a significant portion of our distribution or manufacturing facilities resulting from fire, earthquake, weather-related events, an act of terrorism or any other cause could materially impair our ability to manufacture and distribute our products to customers. Moreover, we could incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with manufacturing or distributing our products to our customers during the time that it takes for us to reopen or replace damaged facilities. Many of our facilities are located at or near Houston, Texas, which is in close proximity to the Gulf of Mexico. This region is particularly susceptible to natural disruptions, as evidenced by the hurricanes in 2004 and 2005. If any of these events were to occur, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. If we are unable to access funds generated by our subsidiaries we may not be able to meet our financial obligations. Because we conduct our operations through our subsidiaries, we depend on those entities for dividends, distributions and other payments to generate the funds necessary to meet our financial obligations. Legal and contractual restrictions in certain agreements governing current and future indebtedness of our subsidiaries, as well as the financial condition and operating requirements of our subsidiaries, may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. All of our subsidiaries are separate and independent legal entities and have no obligation whatsoever to pay any dividends, distributions or other payments to us. 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our senior secured credit facilities, fixed rate notes and floating rate notes. We now have and will continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness. This indebtedness exposes us to risks that some of our primary competitors, with less outstanding indebtedness, do not face. On December 31, 2006, we had $838.1 million of indebtedness outstanding, excluding approximately $34.4 million of letters of credit and up to $140.6 million of additional indebtedness that may be borrowed under our revolving credit facility. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to our business. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our outstanding indebtedness; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • limit our ability to borrow additional funds. In addition, our senior secured credit facilities, fixed rate indenture and floating rate indenture contain financial and other restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debts. Our indentures and our senior secured credit facilities contain cross-default and cross-acceleration provisions such that an event of default under our indentures or the acceleration of amounts outstanding under our indentures will cause an event of default and/or an acceleration of amounts outstanding under our senior secured credit facilities. If all of our indebtedness was accelerated, it is possible that we will not have sufficient funds at the time of acceleration to repay our indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue as a going concern. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, and to fund planned capital expenditures and research and development efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This is a risk that some of our primary competitors, with less outstanding indebtedness, do not face. Our future cash flows are dependent on the level of our earnings, our capital expenditure and working capital requirements and the amount of our tax payments. Our ability to generate future cash flows, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available to us under our senior secured credit facilities or otherwise in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, on or before the maturity thereof. In addition, we may be unable to refinance any of our indebtedness, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. A substantial portion of our indebtedness is at a variable rate of interest, which could increase our interest expense in the event interest rates rise. Certain of our indebtedness bears interest at rates that fluctuate with changes in certain prevailing interest rates. A 1% increase or decrease in the interest rate would result in approximately a $3.2 million increase or decrease in our interest expense on our variable rate indebtedness, respectively. If interest rates increase dramatically, we may be unable to meet our debt service obligations. 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our business operations could be negatively impacted if we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or if third parties claim that we are in violation of their intellectual property rights. Our products are marketed primarily under the Goodman®, Amana® and Quietflex® brand names and, as such, we are dependent on those brand names. Failure to protect these brand names and other intellectual property rights or prevent their unauthorized use by third parties could adversely affect our business. We seek to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing and confidentiality agreements. These protections may not be adequate to prevent competitors from copying or reverse engineering our products, or from developing and marketing products that are substantially equivalent to or superior to our own. In addition, we face the risk of claims that we are infringing third parties’ intellectual property rights. Any such claim, even if it is without merit, could be expensive and time-consuming; could cause us to cease making, using or selling certain products that incorporate the disputed intellectual property; could require us to redesign our products, if feasible; could divert management time and attention; and could require us to enter into costly royalty or licensing arrangements. We may lose the right to use the Amana® brand name which may have an adverse effect on our business. Under an agreement between the Amana Society and Amana Refrigeration, Inc., Amana Refrigeration, Inc. agreed that it would discontinue the use of the Amana® brand name in its corporate name or in connection with any other business enterprise if it were ever to abandon manufacturing operations in Amana, Iowa. Maytag Corporation purchased the Amana appliance business in July 2001 and now controls the manufacturing operations in Amana, Iowa. Subsequently, Maytag was acquired by Whirlpool Corporation in March 2006. We maintained the right to use the Amana name and trademark under a license agreement with Maytag. Prior to a cessation of such operation or following a decision by Maytag to not maintain trademark registrations for the Amana name, Maytag has agreed to consult with us and provide reasonable assistance to us so that we may register the Amana name as a trademark. However, we have no control over Maytag’s decision to continue operations at that facility, and if such operations are discontinued, it is possible that we could lose the right to use the Amana name in connection with our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources and distract management. Since our initial public offering, we have been subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we will be required to include a report of management on our internal control over financial reporting in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K and our independent public accountants auditing our financial statements must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. This requirement will first apply to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2007. If we are unable to conclude that our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting are effective, or if our independent public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified report as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in future years, our stock price may decline. This annual report does not include a report of management’s assessment regarding internal control over financial reporting or an attestation report of the Company’s registered public accounting firm due to a transition period established by rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission for newly public companies. Our equity sponsor controls us and its interests may conflict with or differ from your interests as a shareholder. Our equity sponsor, Apollo, beneficially owns approximately 41% of our common stock. Representatives of Apollo have the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of directors. In addition, Apollo has the ability to substantially influence all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of our directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions such as mergers, tender offers and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. The interests of Apollo and its affiliates could conflict with or differ from your interests as a holder of our common stock. For example, the concentration of ownership held by Apollo could delay, defer or prevent a change of control of our company or impede a merger, takeover or other business 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements combination which you may otherwise view favorably. Apollo may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange rules and, as a result, will qualify for, and intend to rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. Affiliates of Apollo and the Goodman family trusts, as a group, control a majority of our outstanding common stock pursuant to the terms of a stockholders agreement. As a result, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange corporate governance standards. Under the New York Stock Exchange rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, group or another company is a “controlled company” and may elect not to comply with certain New York Stock Exchange corporate governance requirements, including: • the requirement that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors; • the requirement that we have a nominating/corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; • the requirement that we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; and • the requirement for an annual performance evaluation of the nominating/corporate governance and compensation committees. We utilize most of these exemptions. As a result, we do not have a majority of independent directors, nor do our corporate governance and nominating and compensation committees consist entirely of independent directors. Accordingly, you will not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of the New York Stock Exchange corporate governance requirements. Substantial sales of our common stock by funds affiliated with Apollo or the Goodman family trusts could cause our stock price to decline, and issuances by us of our common stock may dilute the ownership interest of our existing stockholders in our company. Any sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the public market by funds affiliated with Apollo or the Goodman family trusts, or the perception that these sales might occur, could lower the market price of our common stock. Further, if we issue additional equity securities to raise additional capital, the ownership interest in our company of our existing stockholders may be diluted and the market price of our common stock may decline. Certain beneficial owners of our voting securities may be required to file an application with and be investigated by the Florida insurance authorities, and the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation may restrict the ability of a beneficial owner to receive any benefit from our voting securities and may require the divestiture of shares of our voting securities. One of our subsidiaries, AsureCare Corp., a Florida corporation, is licensed as a service warranty association and regulated by the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation. As a Florida-domestic service warranty association, AsureCare Corp. is subject to regulation as a specialty insurer under certain provisions of the Florida Insurance Code. Under applicable Florida law, no person can finally acquire, directly or indirectly, more than 10% of the voting securities of a service warranty association or its controlling company without the written approval of the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation. Accordingly, any person who acquires beneficial ownership of 10% or more of our voting securities will be required by law to apply to the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation for its approval no later than five days after any form of tender offer or exchange offer is proposed, or no later than five days after the acquisition of securities or ownership interest if no tender offer or exchange offer is involved. 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The Florida Office of Insurance Regulation may disapprove the acquisition of 10% or more of our voting securities by any person who refuses to apply for and obtain regulatory approval of such acquisition. In addition, if the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation determines that any person has acquired 10% or more of our voting securities without obtaining its regulatory approval, it may order that person to cease the acquisition and divest itself of any shares of our voting securities which may have been acquired in violation of the applicable Florida law. In addition, the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation may assess administrative fines against the purchaser not to exceed $20,000 per willful violation, subject to a cap of $100,000 for violations arising from one transaction. Due to the requirement to file an application with and obtain approval from the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation, purchasers of 10% or more of our voting securities may incur additional expenses in connection with preparing, filing and obtaining approval of the application, and the effectiveness of the acquisition will be delayed pending receipt of approval from the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation, which could take up to 90 days after submission of a complete application. The Florida Office of Insurance Regulation may also take disciplinary action against AsureCare Corp.’s license if it finds that an acquisition made in violation of the applicable Florida law would render the further transaction of its business hazardous to its customers, creditors, stockholders or the public. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 