Item 1A. Risk Factors If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In those cases, the trading price of our common stock could decline. The concentration of our business with a base of retail customers that make no binding long-term commitments means that economic difficulties or changes in the purchasing policies of our major customers could have a significant impact on our business. A number of large, retail customers account for a majority of our sales. In fiscal 2011, Toys R Us generated 39% of our total sales, and seven customers accounted for over 75% of our total sales. Because of the concentration of our business with these customers and because we have no long term contracts with these customers, our success depends on our customers' willingness to continue to purchase and provide shelf space for our products. An adverse change in our relationship with any of our large customers or a change in the financial viability of any of these customers could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to grow and compete will be harmed if we do not successfully satisfy consumer preferences, enhance existing products, develop and introduce new products, and achieve market acceptance of those products. Our business and operating results depend largely upon the appeal of our products. Consumer preferences, particularly among parents, whom are often the end purchasers of our products, are constantly changing. Our success will largely depend on our ability to identify emerging trends in the health, safety and wellness marketplace, and design products that address consumer demand and prove safe and cost effective. Our product offerings compete with those of many other companies, many of which are much larger and enjoy broader brand recognition and significant distribution channel relationships, which means that our market position is always at risk. Our ability to maintain and increase our current market share will depend upon our ability to anticipate changes in consumer preferences and satisfy these preferences, enhance existing products, develop and introduce new products and establish and grow distribution channels for these products, and ultimately achieve market acceptance of these products. We are dependent on key personnel, and our ability to grow and compete in our industry will be harmed if we do not retain the continued services of our key personnel, or we fail to identify, hire, and retain additional qualified personnel. We are dependent on the efforts of our management team, and the loss of services of members of our management team, each of whom has substantial experience in the juvenile health, safety and wellness markets, could have an adverse effect on our business. If any members of management leave, their departure could have an adverse effect on our operations and could adversely affect our ability to design new products and to maintain and grow the distribution channels for our products. In addition, if our operations continue to grow in a manner consistent with our historical growth rates, it will be necessary for us to attract and retain additional qualified personnel. The market for qualified and talented product development personnel in the consumer goods market, and the juvenile health, safety and wellness products market specifically is intensely competitive. If we are unable to attract or retain qualified personnel as needed, the growth of our operations could be slowed or hampered. However, we believe that our compensation including salary, performance-based bonuses, and stock award programs provides incentives that are competitive within our industry. 5 Table of Contents Intellectual property claims relating to our products could increase our costs and adversely affect our business. We have, from time to time, received claims of alleged infringement of patents relating to certain of our products, and we may face similar claims in the future. These claims relate to alleged patent infringement and are primarily the result of newly issued patents that were not in force when we initially brought the subject products to market. The defense of intellectual property claims can be costly and time consuming, even in circumstances where the claim is without merit. We may be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs in order to resolve these types of claims. In addition, these claims could materially harm our brand name, reputation and operations. We rely on foreign suppliers in Asia to manufacture the majority of our products, and any adverse change in our relationship with our suppliers could harm our business. We rely on numerous third-party suppliers located in Asia for the manufacture of most of our products. While we believe that alternative suppliers could be located if required, our product sourcing could be affected if any of these suppliers do not continue to manufacture our products in required quantities or at all, or with the required levels of quality. We enter into purchase orders with our foreign suppliers and do not enter into any long term contracts. In addition, difficulties encountered by these suppliers, such as fire, accident, natural disasters, outbreaks of contagious diseases, or political unrest, could halt or disrupt production at the affected locations, resulting in delay or cancellation of orders. Any of these events could result in delayed deliveries by us of our products, causing reduced sales and harm to our reputation and brand name. Increases in the cost of materials or labor used to manufacture our products could decrease our profitability and therefore negatively impact our business and financial condition. Because our products are manufactured by third-party suppliers, we do not directly purchase the materials used in the manufacture of our products. However, the prices paid by us to these suppliers could increase if raw materials, labor, or other costs increase. If we cannot pass these increases along to our customers, our profitability will be adversely affected. Because we rely on foreign suppliers and we sell in foreign markets, we are subject to numerous risks associated with international business that could increase our costs or disrupt the supply of our products, resulting in a negative impact on our business and financial condition. Our international operations subject us to risks, including: •economic and political instability, •restrictive actions by foreign governments, •greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker laws protecting intellectual property rights, •changes in import duties or import or export restrictions, •timely shipping of product and unloading of product through West Coast ports, as well as timely truck delivery to our warehouses, •complications in complying with the laws and policies of the United States affecting the importation of goods, including duties, quotas, and taxes, and •complications in complying with trade and foreign tax laws. Any of these events or circumstances could disrupt the supply of our products or increase our expenses. 6 Table of Contents Product liability, product recalls, and other claims relating to the use of our products could increase our costs. Because we sell infant and juvenile health, safety and wellness products to consumers, we face product liability risks relating to the use of our products. We also must comply with a variety of product safety and product testing regulations. In particular, our products are subject to, among other statutes and regulations, the Consumer Product Safety Act, the Federal Hazardous Substances Act ("FHSA") and the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act ("CPSIA"), which empower the Consumer Product Safety Commission (the "CPSC"), to take action against hazards presented by consumer products. With expanded authority under the CPSIA, the CPSC has and continues to adopt new regulations for safety and products testing that apply to our products. These new regulations have or likely will significantly increase the regulatory requirements governing the manufacture and sale of children's products and increase the potential penalties for noncompliance with applicable regulations. The CPSC has the authority to exclude from the market and recall certain consumer products that are found to be potentially hazardous. Consumer product safety laws also exist in some states and cities within the United States and in Canada and Europe, as well as certain other countries. While we take the steps we believe are necessary to comply with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance in the future. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, or if we face product liability claims, we may be subject to damage awards or settlement costs that exceed any available insurance coverage and we may incur significant costs in complying with recall requirements. Furthermore, concerns about potential liability may lead us to recall voluntarily selected products. For instance in 2011, we undertook voluntary action to re-label our audio/video nursery monitors and in the fourth quarter of 2011 recorded a charge in connection with the proposed settlement of outstanding litigation related to our analog video nursery monitors. In addition, the CPSC issued a warning regarding sleep positioners during 2010 which resulted in the return of product by retail customers. Complying with existing or any such additional regulations or requirements could impose increased costs on our business. Similarly, increased penalties for non-compliance could subject us to greater expense in the event any of our products were found to not comply with such regulations. Competition in our markets could reduce our net sales and profitability. We operate in highly competitive markets. We compete with several large domestic and foreign companies and with other producers of infant products. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater brand recognition, and greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have. In addition, we may face competition from new participants in our markets because the infant and juvenile product industry has limited barriers to entry. We experience price competition for our products, competition for shelf space at retailers and competition for licenses, all of which may increase in the future. If we cannot compete successfully in the future, our net sales and profitability will likely decline. We may experience difficulties in identifying suitable acquisition targets and integrating strategic acquisitions. As part of our growth strategy, we have made strategic acquisitions and intend to continue to pursue acquisitions that are consistent with our mission and enable us to leverage our competitive strengths. While we continue to evaluate potential acquisitions, we may not be able to identify and successfully negotiate suitable acquisitions, obtain financing for future acquisitions on satisfactory terms, obtain regulatory approval for certain acquisitions or otherwise complete acquisitions in the future. An inability to identify future acquisitions could limit our future growth. In addition, the integration of operations of those companies we do acquire into our operations involves a number of risks, including: •the acquired business may experience losses that could adversely affect our profitability; •unanticipated costs relating to the integration of acquired businesses may increase our expenses; 7 Table of Contents •possible failure to obtain any necessary consents to the transfer of licenses or other agreements of the acquired business; •possible failure to maintain customer, licensor and other relationships after the closing of the transaction of the acquired business; •difficulties in achieving planned cost-savings and synergies may increase our expenses or decrease our net sales; •diversion of management's attention could impair their ability to effectively manage our business operations; and •unanticipated management or operational problems or liabilities may adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. In addition, any future acquisitions or investments may result in: •issuances of dilutive equity securities, which may be sold at a discount to market price; •impairment of goodwill; •use of significant amounts of cash; •the incurrence of debt; •the assumption of significant liabilities; •unfavorable financing terms; •large one-time expenses; and •the creation of intangible assets, including goodwill, the write-down of which may result in significant charges to earnings. We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities. Our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely affected by nondeductible stock-based compensation, earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have lower statutory rates and being higher than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have higher statutory rates, transfer pricing adjustments, not meeting the terms and conditions of tax holidays or incentives, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in actual results versus our estimates, or changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof. In addition, like other companies, we may be subject to examination of our income tax returns by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities, and our federal tax returns for 2009 are currently being audited by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service. While we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes from such examinations and the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, there can be no assurance that such provision is sufficient and that a determination by a tax authority will not have an adverse effect on our results of operations. A material impairment in the carrying value of acquired goodwill or other intangible assets could negatively affect our consolidated operating results and net worth. A portion of our assets is goodwill and other intangible assets, which are reviewed on an annual basis and whenever events and changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If the carrying value of these assets exceeds the current fair value, the asset is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value, resulting in a non-cash charge to earnings during the period in which any impairment is determined. Events and conditions that could result in impairment include a sustained drop in the market price of our common stock, increased competition or loss of 8 Table of Contents market share, product innovation or obsolescence, or a decline of our business related to acquired companies. We cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of assets. Our debt covenants may affect our liquidity or limit our ability to complete acquisitions, incur debt, make investments, sell assets, merge or complete other significant transactions. Our loan agreement includes provisions that place limitations on a number of our activities, including our ability to: •incur additional debt; •create liens on our assets or make guarantees; •make certain investments or loans; •pay dividends; or •dispose of or sell assets or enter into a merger or similar transaction. Our credit agreement also contains a number of financial covenants. The restrictive covenants in our credit agreement may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our best long-term interests. A breach of any of the restrictive covenants in our credit agreement could result in a default under our credit agreement. If a default occurs, the lenders under our credit agreement may elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable, to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowers, and to exercise any other rights they have under the credit agreement or applicable law. We may not be able to maintain compliance with our bank covenants, and our capital resources may not be sufficient to make required payments on our outstanding indebtedness. Our ability to maintain compliance with the financial and other covenants under our current loan agreement is dependent upon our ability to continue to execute our business model and current operational plans. If an event of default in such covenants occurs and is continuing among other things, the lenders may accelerate the loans, declare the commitments thereunder to be terminated, seize collateral or take other actions of secured creditors. If the loans are accelerated or commitments terminated, we could face substantial liquidity problems and may be forced to dispose of material assets or operations, seek to obtain equity capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Such alternative measures may not be available or successful. Also, our bank covenants may limit our ability to dispose of material assets or operations or to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Even if we are able to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, the economic terms may not be favorable to us. All of the foregoing could have serious consequences to our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to generate cash to meet scheduled payments with respect to our debt depends on our financial and operating performance, which in turn, is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and the other factors discussed in this "Risk Factors" section. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and may be forced to dispose of material assets or operations, seek to obtain equity capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Such alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt services obligations. The breach of any covenants or restrictions in our loan agreement could result in a default thereunder, which would permit the lenders to take the actions discussed above. We could issue additional common stock, which might dilute the book value of our common stock. Our board of directors has authority, without action or vote of our stockholders in most cases, to issue all or a part of our authorized but unissued shares. These stock issuances could be made at a 9 Table of Contents price that reflects a discount from the then-current trading price of our common stock. In addition, to raise capital, we may need to issue securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for a significant amount of our common stock. These issuances would dilute current shareholders' ownership percentage which would have the effect of reducing their influence on matters on which stockholders vote, and could dilute the book value per share of Summer Infant common stock. Stockholders may incur additional dilution if holders of stock options, whether currently outstanding or subsequently granted, exercise their options, or if warrant holders exercise their warrants to purchase shares of Summer Infant common stock. As a "thinly-traded" stock, large sales can place downward pressure on our stock price. Our common stock experiences periods when it could be considered "thinly traded." Finance transactions resulting in a large amount of newly issued shares that become readily tradable, or other events that cause current stockholders to sell shares, could place downward pressure on the trading price of our stock. In addition, the lack of a robust resale market may require a stockholder to sell a large number of shares in increments over time to mitigate any adverse impact of the sales on the market price of our stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law may limit the ability of our stockholders to control our policies and effect a change of control of our company and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management, which may not be in your best interests. There are provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws that may discourage a third party from making a proposal to acquire us, even if some of our stockholders might consider the proposal to be in their best interests, and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. These provisions include the following: •our certificate of incorporation provides for three classes of directors with the term of office of one class expiring each year, commonly referred to as a staggered board. By preventing stockholders from voting on the election of more than one class of directors at any annual meeting of stockholders, this provision may have the effect of keeping the current members of our board of directors in control for a longer period of time than stockholders may desire; •our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval and to establish the preferences and rights of any preferred stock issued, which would allow the board to issue one or more classes or series of preferred stock that could discourage or delay a tender offer or change in control; and •our bylaws require advance written notice of stockholder proposals and director nominations. Additionally, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which, in general, imposes restrictions upon acquirers of 15% or more of our stock. Finally, the board of directors may in the future adopt other protective measures, such as a stockholder rights plan, which could delay, deter or prevent a change of control. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 