ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMPANY AND OUR BUSINESS We may be required to seek additional capital in order to fund our operations, and our ability to obtain additional capital is uncertain. Our cash and cash equivalents totaled approximately $6.9 million at June 30, 2009. We believe we can fund our operations as currently conducted through at least December 31, 2010. This expectation is based on certain key assumptions that include (i) continued receipt from Pfizer of quarterly $500,000 research and development funding; (ii) Alimera’s continued funding of the development of Iluvien; and (iii) the continued receipt of the scheduled conditional note payments from Alimera. However, whether and when we will require additional capital will depend upon many other factors, including, but not limited to: • the continuation of our existing collaborations with Pfizer and Alimera, including their continued funding of our programs and our receipt of milestone, royalty, note and other payments; • the timely development, regulatory approval and commercialization of Iluvien; • the amount and timing of sales of Retisert, which affect the timing of the resumption of Retisert royalty payments and the amount of such royalty payments; • the scope and extent of our internally funded operations and programs (including any Phase III trials for BrachySil for pancreatic cancer), any new product candidates and any new business opportunities; • our ability to establish and maintain strategic arrangements for BrachySil and any other product candidates for research, development, clinical testing, manufacturing and marketing; • the success of our products and product candidates, including the timing and costs of regulatory approvals and the commercial success of approved products; • the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining, defending and enforcing patent claims; and • changes in our operating plan, including the pursuit of any new business opportunities, which may affect our need for capital. In particular, our future cash position depends significantly on the timing of FDA approval and the initiation and success of marketing of Iluvien, and the occurrence of certain milestone events under the terms of our collaboration agreement with Alimera. Alimera has agreed to pay us $25 million upon FDA approval of Iluvien for DME and a 20% share in the future profits of Iluvien. In addition, the $15 million note issued by Alimera becomes due and payable upon the occurrence of certain defined liquidity events (such as an initial public offering of Alimera) that result in aggregate proceeds to Alimera in excess of $75 million. There is no assurance that the FDA will approve Iluvien or that Iluvien will achieve market acceptance even if it is approved by the FDA. There is similarly no guarantee of the occurrence of a liquidity event resulting in aggregate gross proceeds to Alimera in excess of $75 million. The downturn in the economy and the disruptions in the financial and credit markets have made it significantly more difficult and more expensive to obtain financing. If we determine that it is desirable or necessary to raise additional capital in the future, we do not know if it will be available when needed or on terms favorable to us or our stockholders. If available, additional equity financing may be dilutive to stockholders, debt financing may involve restrictive covenants or other unfavorable terms and potential dilutive equity, and funding through collaboration agreements may be on unfavorable terms, including requiring us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies or products. If adequate financing is not available if and when needed, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs, postpone the pursuit of product candidates and new business opportunities, or otherwise reduce our cash requirements. 14 Table of Contents We have a history of losses, we expect to continue to incur losses and we may never become profitable. We have incurred operating losses since our inception in 2000. For the years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, we incurred net losses of $2.5 million, $75.7 million and $81.2 million, respectively. As of June 30, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of $227.0 million. We expect to continue to incur net losses through at least the fiscal year ending June 30, 2010, and we may incur losses beyond that time if our Iluvien product candidate is not timely approved and successfully commercialized. Even if Iluvien is approved and marketed, our profit share on sales of Iluvien, combined with royalty income from our current products, and any other sources of revenue, may not be sufficient to result in profitability. We do not currently derive revenue from Retisert, and there is no assurance that Retisert will ever be a material source of revenue. In consideration of a June 2005 royalty advance of $3.0 million, we agreed that Bausch & Lomb would retain $6.25 million of future Retisert royalties that otherwise would be payable to us. As of June 30, 2009, an additional $1.2 million of future royalties otherwise payable to us from the sales of Retisert will be retained by Bausch & Lomb before we are entitled to receive any further royalty payments. At June 30, 2007, we decreased our assessment of the probable level of future sales of Retisert as a result of historical sales trends and Bausch & Lomb’s decision to withdraw its European application for authorization to market Retisert, resulting in a $45.3 million impairment charge on the recorded value that had been assigned to the Retisert patents. In addition, the amount of corticosteroid FA delivered by Retisert has been associated with increased incidence of cataract formation and increased intraocular pressure, which side effects we believe may have also negatively affected sales of Retisert. We currently do not expect to record royalty income on sales of Retisert by Bausch & Lomb until at least the fourth quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2010. There is no assurance, however, if we will commence receiving full royalty amounts at that time or at any other time. We also cannot predict the amount of any future royalty payments that we will receive. Our results could be adversely affected as a result of the impact of impairment of our intangible assets, which could adversely affect the price of our securities. Impairment charges on our intangible assets could have a material effect on our results of operations, which could in turn adversely affect the price of our securities. We have recorded significant amounts of intangible assets in connection with acquisitions. We took a $60.1 million impairment charge on goodwill as of June 30, 2008 (which reduced the carrying value of our goodwill to zero), and a $45.3 million impairment charge on the recorded value of our Retisert intangible asset as of June 30, 2007. We still have $28.8 million of intangible assets on our balance sheet as of June 30, 2009, of which approximately $19.8 million relates to our BioSilicon technology and approximately $9.0 million relates to Retisert. We will continue to conduct impairment analyses of our intangible assets as required, and may be required to take significant impairment charges in the future. Our results could be adversely affected by non-cash charges due to fluctuations in the fair values of certain of our outstanding warrants, which could adversely affect the price of our securities. In connection with certain capital raising transactions during the years ended June 30, 2008 and 2007, we issued detachable warrants denominated in A$. The fair values of the warrants have been recorded as derivative liabilities on our balance sheet. We are required to assess the fair value of these warrants at each subsequent balance sheet date, and changes in their fair values will result in adjustments to our recorded derivative liabilities, and a corresponding gain or loss on our statement of operations. The fair values of these warrants are sensitive to changes in our share price, among other factors, and are measured using the Black-Scholes valuation model. Fluctuations in the fair values of these warrants could be substantial and could continue to affect our operating results until the last-to-expire of these warrants in July 2012. 15 Table of Contents Our operating results may fluctuate significantly from period to period. Our operating results have fluctuated significantly from period to period in the past and may continue to do so in the future due to many factors, including: • the timing, receipt and amount of payments, if any, from current and potential future collaboration partners and the revenue recognition policies related thereto; • changes in accounting estimates, policies or principles; • the entry into, or termination of, collaboration agreements; • the scope, duration and effectiveness of our collaboration arrangements; • the quarterly income or expense amounts recorded from the revaluation of our derivative liabilities; • the amount of research and development costs, including pre-clinical studies and clinical trials, that are funded internally; • general and industry-specific adverse economic conditions that may affect, among other things, our and our collaborators’ operations and financial results; and • impairment write-downs of one or more of our intangible assets. Due to fluctuations in our operating results, quarterly comparisons of our financial results may not necessarily be meaningful, and investors should not rely upon such results as an indication of future performance. In addition, investors may react adversely if our reported operating results are less favorable than in a prior period or are less favorable than those anticipated by investors in the financial community, which may result in a decrease in our stock price. RISKS RELATED TO THE DEVELOPMENT AND COMMERCIALIZATION OF OUR PRODUCTS Certain of our current licensees may terminate their agreements with us at any time, and if they do, we may not be able to effectively develop and sell our products. Our licensees have rights of termination under our agreements with them. Exercise of termination rights by one or more of our licensees may leave us, at least temporarily, without development, marketing or sales resources, which may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, our interests may not continue to coincide with those of our partners, and our partners may develop, independently or with third parties, products or technologies that could compete with our products. Further, disagreements over rights or technologies or other proprietary interests may occur. We have exclusively licensed certain of our controlled drug delivery technologies to Pfizer for certain ophthalmic applications. Pfizer is currently funding early stage research and pre-clinical development of potential product candidates under our worldwide collaborative research and license agreement with it. Pfizer may terminate the agreement without penalty at any time and for any reason upon 90 days written notice. We have exclusively licensed our technology underlying Vitrasert and Retisert to Bausch & Lomb, which can terminate its agreement with us without penalty at any time upon 90 days’ written notice. We have licensed the technology underlying Iluvien and certain ophthalmic applications to Alimera. Alimera has the financial responsibility for the development of Iluvien and any other licensed products developed under our collaboration agreement, along with sole responsibility for the commercialization of such licensed products. Alimera may abandon the development and commercialization of any licensed product at any time. Any of Pfizer, Alimera or Bausch & Lomb may decide not to continue with or commercialize any or all of the licensed products, change strategic focus, pursue alternative technologies or develop competing products. Alimera was incorporated in June 2003 and may have limited resources. While Pfizer and Bausch & Lomb have significant experience in the ophthalmic field and have substantial resources, there is no assurance whether, and 16 Table of Contents to what extent, that experience and those resources will be devoted to our technologies. Because we do not currently have sufficient funding or internal capabilities to develop and commercialize our products and product candidates, decisions, actions, breach or termination of these agreements by Pfizer, Bausch & Lomb or Alimera could delay or stop the development or commercialization of Retisert, Iluvien or other potential future product candidates licensed to such entities. If we or our licensees do not receive the necessary regulatory approvals, we or our licensees will be unable to commercialize our product candidates. Our current and future activities are and will be subject to stringent regulation by governmental authorities both in the United States and in any other country in which our products are marketed. Before we or our licensees can manufacture, market and sell any of our product candidates, approval from the FDA and/or foreign regulatory authorities is first required. Generally, in order to obtain these approvals, pre-clinical studies and clinical trials must demonstrate that each of these product candidates is safe for human use and effective for its targeted disease or condition. Our product candidates are in various stages of pre-clinical and clinical testing. In particular, Iluvien is in fully-enrolled Phase III clinical trials being conducted by Alimera and BrachySil is nearing the completion of a Phase II dose ranging clinical trial. Product development involves a high degree of risk, and only a small number of research and development programs result in an approved product. If clinical trials for any of our product candidates do not provide the necessary evidence of safety and effectiveness, those product candidates cannot be manufactured and sold and will not generate revenue from sales. Clinical trials for our product candidates may fail or be delayed by many factors, including the following: • our (or our licensees’) lack of sufficient funding to pursue trials rapidly or at all; • our (or our licensees’) inability to attract clinical investigators for trials; • our (or our licensees’) inability to recruit patients in sufficient numbers or at the expected rate; • our inability to reach agreement with a licensee to undertake the clinical trials; • adverse side effects; • failure of the trials to demonstrate a product’s safety or efficacy; • our (or our licensees’) failure to meet FDA or other regulatory agency requirements for clinical trial design; • our (or our licensees’) inability to follow patients adequately after treatment; • changes in the design or manufacture of a product; • failures by, or changes in our relationship, or that of our licensees, with contract research organizations, third-party vendors and investigators responsible for pre-clinical testing and clinical trials; • our inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of materials for use in clinical trials; and • governmental or regulatory delays. Results from pre-clinical testing and early clinical trials often do not accurately predict results of later clinical trials. Data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical activities are susceptible to varying interpretations which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Data from pre-clinical studies, early clinical trials and interim periods in multi-year trials are preliminary and may change, and final data from pivotal trials for such products may differ significantly. Adverse side effects may develop that delay, limit or prevent the regulatory approval of products, or cause such regulatory approvals to be limited or even rescinded. For example, Iluvien utilizes the corticosteroid FA as its active ingredient, which has been associated with certain undesirable side effects in Retisert. Alimera must demonstrate that Iluvien presents an acceptable risk/benefit profile in order to achieve FDA approval. 17 Table of Contents Additional trials necessary for approval may not be undertaken or may ultimately fail to establish the safety and efficacy of our product candidates. The FDA or other relevant regulatory agencies may not approve our product candidates for manufacture and sale. Any product approvals we or our licensees achieve could also be withdrawn for failure to comply with regulatory standards or due to unforeseen problems after the products’ marketing approval. In either case, marketing efforts with respect to the affected product would have to cease. In addition, the FDA or other regulatory agencies may impose limitations on the indicated uses for which a product may be marketed. In addition to testing, regulatory agencies impose various requirements on manufacturers and sellers of products under their jurisdiction, such as packaging, labeling, manufacturing practices, record keeping and reporting. Regulatory agencies may also require post-marketing testing and surveillance programs to monitor a product’s effects. Furthermore, changes in existing regulations or the adoption of new regulations could prevent us from obtaining, or affect the timing of, future regulatory approvals. We have a limited ability to develop and market products ourselves. If we are unable to find marketing or commercialization partners, or our marketing or commercialization partners do not successfully develop or market our products, we may be unable to effectively develop and market products on our own. We have limited product development capability and no marketing or sales staff. Developing products and achieving market acceptance for them will require extensive and substantial efforts by experienced personnel as well as expenditure of significant funds. We may not be able to establish sufficient capabilities necessary to develop products and achieve market penetration ourselves. Our business strategy includes entering into collaborative and licensing arrangements for the development and commercialization of our product candidates, and we currently have collaboration and licensing arrangements with Alimera, Pfizer, Bausch & Lomb and Intrinsiq. The curtailment or termination of any of these arrangements could adversely affect our business, the ability to develop and commercialize our products and proposed products and our ability to fund operations. The success of these and future collaborative and licensing arrangements will depend heavily on the experience, resources, efforts and activities of our licensees. Our licensees have, and are expected to have, significant discretion in making these decisions. Risks that we face in connection with our collaboration and licensing strategy include the following: • our collaborative and licensing arrangements are, and are expected to be, subject to termination under various circumstances including on short notice and without cause; • we are required, and expect to be required, under our collaborative and licensing arrangements not to conduct specified types of research and development in the field that is the subject of the arrangement, limiting the areas of research and development that we can pursue; • our licensees may develop and commercialize, either alone or with others, products that are similar to or competitive with our products; • our licensees, consistent with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that have historically acted similarly, may for a variety of reasons change the focus of their development and commercialization efforts or decrease or fail to increase spending related to our products or product candidates, thereby limiting the ability of these products to reach their potential; • our licensees may lack the funding or experience to develop and commercialize our products successfully or may otherwise fail to do so; and • our licensees may not perform their obligations, in whole or in part. 18 Table of Contents To the extent that we choose not to, or we are unable to, enter into future license agreements with marketing and sales partners and seek to market and sell products ourselves, we would experience increased capital requirements to develop the ability to manufacture, market and sell future products. We may not be able to manufacture, market or sell our technologies or future products independently in the absence of such agreements. If our competitors and potential competitors develop products that receive regulatory approval before our product candidates are approved or reach the market prior to our product candidates, are more effective or have fewer side effects than our products or product candidates or are more effectively marketed or cost less, our products or product candidates may not achieve the sales we anticipate and could be rendered obsolete. We believe that pharmaceutical, drug delivery and biotechnology companies, research organizations, governmental entities, universities, hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and individual scientists are seeking to develop the drugs, therapies, products, approaches or methods to treat our targeted diseases or their underlying causes. For many of our targeted diseases, competitors have alternate therapies that are already commercialized or are in various stages of development ranging from discovery to advanced clinical trials. Any of these drugs, therapies, products, approaches or methods may receive government approval or gain market acceptance more rapidly than our products and product candidates, may offer therapeutic or cost advantages or may cure our targeted diseases or their underlying causes completely, which could reduce demand for our products and product candidates and could render them noncompetitive or obsolete. For example, sales of Vitrasert for the treatment of CMV retinitis, a disease that affects people with late-stage AIDS, have declined significantly because of new treatments that delay the onset of late-stage AIDS. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technological, research and development, marketing and personnel resources than us. Our competitors may succeed in developing alternate technologies and products that, in comparison to the products we have and are seeking to develop: • are more effective and easier to use; • are more economical; • have fewer side effects; or • may otherwise render our products less competitive or obsolete. Many of these competitors have greater experience in developing products, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals or clearances and manufacturing and marketing products. Reimbursement of our products by government health administration authorities and other third-party payors could affect market acceptance. In both domestic and foreign markets, our ability to commercialize our products successfully depends, in part, upon the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payors, such as government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations. Governments and other third-party payors attempt to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for products. Third-party payors may challenge the price and cost-effectiveness of our products. If our products are not considered cost-effective, third-party payors may deny or limit reimbursement. Governments and other third-party payors may refuse to provide coverage for uses of approved products for disease indications for which they have not been granted regulatory approval. If government and third-party payors do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for uses of our products, the market acceptance of our products would be limited. There have been a number of U.S. federal and state proposals during the last few years to subject the pricing of pharmaceuticals to government control and to make other changes to the health care system in the U.S. It is 19 Table of Contents uncertain what legislative proposals will be adopted or what actions federal, state or private payors for health care goods and services may take in response to any health care reform proposals or legislation. Similar health care reforms may also be implemented outside of the U.S. We cannot predict the effect health care reforms may have on our business. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY We rely heavily upon patents and trade secrets to protect our proprietary technologies. If we fail to protect our intellectual property or infringe on others’ technologies, our ability to develop and market our products and product candidates may be compromised. Our success is dependent on whether we can obtain patents, defend our existing patents and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties. As of August 31, 2009, we had 147 patents and 242 pending patent applications, including patents and pending applications covering our Durasert, BioSilicon and CODRUG technologies. Intellectual property protection of our technologies is uncertain. We expect to seek to patent and protect our proprietary technologies. However, there is no assurance that any additional patents will be issued to us as a result of our pending or future patent applications or that any of our patents will withstand challenges by others. In addition, we may not have sufficient funds to patent and protect our proprietary technologies to the extent that we would desire or at all. If we were determined to be infringing any third party patent, we could be required to pay damages, alter our products or processes, obtain licenses, pay royalties or cease certain operations. We may not be able to obtain any required licenses on commercially favorable terms, if at all. In addition, many foreign country laws may treat the protection of proprietary rights differently from, and may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as, laws in the United States and Patent Co-operation Treaty countries. Prior art may reduce the scope or protection of, or invalidate, patents. Previously conducted research or published discoveries may prevent patents from being granted, invalidate issued patents or narrow the scope of any protection obtained. Reduction in scope of protection or invalidation of our licensed or owned patents, or our inability to obtain patents, may enable other companies to develop products that compete with our products and product candidates on the basis of the same or similar technology. As a result, our patents and those of our licensors may not provide any or sufficient protection against competitors. While we have not been and are not currently involved in any litigation over intellectual property, such litigation may be necessary to enforce any patents issued or licensed to us or to determine the scope and validity of third party proprietary rights. We may also be sued by one or more third parties alleging that we infringe their intellectual property rights. Any intellectual property litigation would be likely to result in substantial costs to us and diversion of our efforts. If our competitors claim technology also claimed by us and if they prepare and file patent applications in the U.S. or other jurisdictions, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark office or appropriate foreign patent office to determine priority of invention, which could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our efforts. Any such litigation or interference proceedings, regardless of the outcome, could be expensive and time consuming. Litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, requiring disputed rights to be licensed from third parties and/or require us to cease using certain technologies. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and technology that are not protected by patents to maintain our competitive position. We try to protect this information by entering into confidentiality agreements with parties that have access to it, such as our corporate partners, collaborators, employees, and consultants. Any of these parties could breach these agreements and disclose our confidential information, or our competitors may learn of the information in some other way. If any material trade secret, know-how or other technology not protected by a patent were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor, our competitive position could be materially harmed. 20 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS, INDUSTRY, STRATEGY AND OPERATIONS If we fail to retain some or all of our key personnel, our business could suffer. We are dependent upon the principal members of our management, administrative and scientific staff. In addition, we believe that our future success in developing our products and achieving a competitive position will depend to a large extent on whether we can attract and retain additional qualified management and scientific personnel. There is strong competition for such personnel within the industry in which we operate and we may not be able to continue to attract such personnel either to Massachusetts, where much of our research and development is conducted, or to Malvern in the U.K. As we do not have large numbers of employees and our products are unique and highly specialized, the loss of the services of one or more of the senior management or scientific staff, or the inability to attract and retain additional personnel and develop expertise as needed, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we are subject to product liability suits, we may not have sufficient insurance to cover damages. The testing, manufacturing, and marketing and sale of the products utilizing our technologies involves risks that product liability claims may be asserted against us and/or our licensees. Our current clinical trial and product liability insurance may not be adequate to cover damages resulting from product liability claims. Regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims could require us to spend significant time, money and other resources to defend such claims, could result in decreased demand for our products and product candidates or result in reputational harm and could result in the payment of a significant damage award. Our product liability insurance coverage is subject to deductibles and coverage limitations and may not be adequate in scope to protect us in the event of a successful product liability claim. Further, we may not be able to acquire sufficient clinical trial or product liability insurance in the future on reasonable commercial terms, if at all. The trend towards consolidation in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries may adversely affect us. There is an ongoing trend of consolidation in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. This consolidation trend could result in the remaining companies having greater financial resources and technological capabilities, thus intensifying competition. This trend could also result in fewer potential collaboration partners or licensees for our product candidates. In addition, if a consolidating company is already doing business with our competitors, we could lose existing or potential future licensees or collaboration partners as a result of such consolidation. If we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations, our ability to manufacture and commercialize products may be adversely affected. Medical and biopharmaceutical research and development involves the controlled use of hazardous materials, such as radioactive compounds and chemical solvents. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations in the U.S. and abroad governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of such materials and waste products. We could be subject to both criminal liability and civil damages in the event of an improper or unauthorized release of, or exposure of individuals to, hazardous materials. In addition, claimants may sue us for injury or contamination that results from our use or the use by third parties of these materials, and our liability may exceed our total assets. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations is expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development or production efforts or harm our operating results. If we encounter problems with product manufacturing, we could experience delays in product development and commercialization, which would adversely affect our future profitability. Our ability to conduct timely pre-clinical and clinical research and development programs, obtain regulatory approvals, develop and commercialize our product candidates and fulfill our contract manufacturing obligations 21 Table of Contents to others will depend, in part, upon our and our collaborative partners’ ability to manufacture our products and product candidates, either directly or through third parties, in accordance with FDA and other regulatory requirements. The manufacture and packaging of our products and product candidates are regulated by the FDA and similar foreign regulatory entities and must be conducted in accordance with applicable current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP. There are a limited number of manufacturers that operate under these cGMP regulations which are both capable of manufacturing our products and product candidates and are willing to do so. Failure by us, our collaborative partners or our or their third-party manufacturers to comply with applicable manufacturing requirements could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our product candidates, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of product, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions. In addition, we or our collaborative partners may not be able to manufacture our product candidates successfully or have a third party manufacture them in a cost-effective manner. If we or our collaborative partners are unable to develop our own manufacturing facilities or to obtain or retain third-party manufacturing on acceptable terms, we may not be able to conduct certain future pre-clinical and clinical testing or to supply commercial quantities of our products. We manufacture clinical supplies of Iluvien and certain clinical supplies for Pfizer. BrachySil clinical supplies are manufactured by third parties under contract. We have licensed to Pfizer the exclusive rights to manufacture commercial quantities of ophthalmic products, if approved for marketing, covered by its worldwide collaborative research and license agreement with us. We have licensed to Bausch & Lomb the exclusive rights to manufacture commercial quantities of Vitrasert and Retisert. We have licensed to Alimera the rights to develop, manufacture and commercialize Medidur FA, which Alimera intends to commercialize under the name Iluvien, if approved for marketing, and have licensed to Alimera rights to other products covered by its collaboration agreement with us. Our current reliance on third-party manufacturers entails risks, including: • the possibility that third parties may not comply with the FDA’s cGMP regulations, other regulatory requirements, and those of similar foreign regulatory bodies, and may not employ adequate quality assurance practices; • supply disruption, deterioration in product quality or breach of a manufacturing or license agreement by the third party because of factors beyond our control; • the possible termination or non-renewal of a manufacturing or licensing agreement with a third party at a time that is costly or inconvenient to us; and • our inability to identify or qualify an alternative manufacturer in a timely manner, even if contractually permitted to do so. We believe that Alimera currently intends to rely on a single manufacturer of Iluvien and a single active pharmaceutical ingredient formulator. Our business could be significantly harmed if these third parties are not able to satisfy demand for Iluvien and alternative sources are not available. In addition, the materials necessary to produce Iluvien or formulate the active pharmaceutical ingredient may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, which could affect the development and commercialization of Iluvien. Problems associated with international business operations could affect our ability to manufacture and sell our products. If we encounter such problems, our costs could increase and our development of products could be delayed. We currently maintain offices in the U.S. and the U.K. BrachySil is produced for us in Germany and the U.K., and BioSilicon is produced in-house and by third party contractors in the U.K. We have research and development facilities in the U.S. and the U.K., and we intend to license products for sale and/or sell products in most major world healthcare markets. A number of risks are inherent in our international strategy. In order for us 22 Table of Contents to license and manufacture our products, we must obtain country and jurisdiction-specific regulatory approvals or clearances to comply with regulations regarding safety and quality. We may not be able to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals or clearances in such countries, and we may be required to incur significant costs in obtaining or maintaining foreign regulatory approvals or clearances. In addition, our operations and revenues may be subject to a number of risks associated with foreign commerce, including the following: • staffing and managing foreign operations; • political and economic instability; • foreign currency exchange fluctuations; • foreign tax laws, tariffs and freight rates and charges; • timing and availability of export licenses; • inadequate protection of intellectual property rights in some countries; and • obtaining required governmental approvals. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK The price of our common stock may be volatile. The price of our common stock (including common stock represented by CHESS Depositary Interests (CDIs)) may be affected by developments directly affecting our business and by developments out of our control or unrelated to us. The biotechnology sector, in particular, and the stock market generally, are vulnerable to abrupt changes in investor sentiment. Prices of securities and trading volume of companies in the biotechnology industry, including ours, can swing dramatically in ways unrelated to, or that bear a disproportionate relationship to, operating performance. The price of our stock (and CDIs) and their trading volumes may fluctuate based on a number of factors including, but not limited to: • clinical trial results and other product and technological developments and innovations; • FDA and other governmental regulatory actions, receipt and timing of approvals of our product candidates, and any denials and withdrawals of approvals; • competitive factors, including the commercialization of new products in our markets by our competitors; • advancements with respect to treatment of the diseases targeted by our product candidates; • developments relating to collaborative partners, including execution and termination of agreements, achievement of milestones and receipt of payments; • the success of our collaborative partners in marketing any approved products and the amount and timing of the royalties payable to us; • availability and cost of capital and our financial and operating results; • changes in reimbursement policies or other practices relating to our product candidates or the pharmaceutical industry generally; • meeting, exceeding or failing to meet analysts’ or investors’ expectations, and changes in evaluations and recommendations by securities analysts; • economic, industry and market conditions, changes or trends; and • other factors unrelated to us or the biotechnology industry. 23 Table of Contents In addition, low trading volume in our common stock or our CDIs may increase their price volatility. As of August 31, 2009, we had approximately 18.3 million shares of common stock outstanding. The average combined daily trading volume in the common stock (and CDIs) on the exchanges in which our common stock are listed was approximately 26,000 shares during the period May to August 2009. Holders of our common stock and CDIs may not be able to liquidate their positions at the desired time or price. If the holders of our outstanding warrants and stock options exercise their warrants and options, your ownership may be diluted and our stock price may decline. The issuance of shares of our common stock upon exercise of our outstanding warrants and stock options would result in dilution to the interests of other holders of our common stock and could adversely affect our stock price. As of September 15, 2009, we had outstanding warrants and options to acquire 13,005,613 shares of our common stock, or approximately 41.6% of our shares on a fully diluted basis. Although the exercise prices of the majority of these warrants and options are substantially above the current price, the overhang of such warrants and options may adversely affect our stock price. The warrant exercise prices may be adjusted under certain circumstances, including, among others, in the event we issue securities in a rights offering at a lower price than the exercise price. Pfizer owns a significant percentage of our common stock and is a collaborative partner and therefore may be able to influence our business in ways that are not beneficial to you. Pfizer owned approximately 10.2% of our outstanding shares as of August 31, 2009 and is a collaborative partner. As a result, Pfizer may be able to exert significant influence over our board of directors and how we operate our business. The concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company. We have paid penalties pursuant to registration agreements with securities holders relating to resale registration statements, and any requirement to pay such penalties in the future may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We have registration rights agreements that require us to file and maintain the effectiveness of registration statements for the resale of our common stock, which provide for monetary penalties in the event of our failure to do so. During the year ended June 30, 2007, we paid registration delay penalties of approximately $2.3 million in connection with our then outstanding Sandell convertible promissory note and Absolute subordinated convertible notes. Our failure or inability to maintain the effectiveness of any of our required registration statements or to adequately update information in the related prospectuses may subject us to additional penalties under our current registration rights agreements. Payment of additional penalties may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and may require us to suspend, curtail or terminate our operations or delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research and development programs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock, and any return to investors will come, if at all, only from potential increases in the price of our common stock. At the present time, we intend to use available funds to finance our operations. Accordingly, while payment of dividends rests within the discretion of our board of directors, no cash dividends on our common shares have been declared or paid by us and we have no intention of paying any such dividends in the foreseeable future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 24 Table of Contents 