D. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors, in addition to the other information and financial data contained in this annual report, should be considered carefully in evaluating our company and its business. Risks related to our company and our business Our ability to obtain additional capital is uncertain, and if we do not obtain it, we will not have the funding necessary to conduct our operations and develop our products. We expect to require substantial additional capital resources in order to conduct our operations and develop our products. We had cash and cash equivalents of A$7.9 million (US$5.9 million) as of September 30, 2006, and we have used A$8.3 million (US$6.3 million) and A$7.4 million (US$5.5 million) for operating activities in the three months ended September 30, 2006 and June 30, 2006, respectively. Therefore, we will need to raise additional funds in the near term to continue to conduct our operations as we have been conducting them to date. The timing and degree of our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: · the amount of royalty and other revenue that we earn; · whether and to what extent our investors exercise redemption rights provided for in our outstanding convertible debt securities; · continued scientific progress in our research and development programs; · the magnitude and scope of our research and development programs; -4- · our ability to maintain and establish strategic arrangements for research, development, clinical testing, manufacturing and marketing; · our progress with preclinical and clinical trials; · the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; and · the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining, defending and enforcing patent claims. We will attempt to acquire additional funding through strategic collaborations, public or private equity financings, capital lease transactions or other financing sources that may be available. Additional financing may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, the terms of our outstanding convertible notes, including among others, the market price-based conversion rate adjustments, may reduce the likelihood that we will be able to find additional capital at a reasonable valuation if at all. Additional equity financings could result in significant dilution to stockholders. Further, in the event that additional funds are obtained through arrangements with collaborative partners, these arrangements may require us to relinquish rights to some of our technologies, product candidates or products that we would otherwise seek to develop and commercialize ourselves. If sufficient capital is not available in the near term and in the longer term, we may not be able to fund our operations and may be required to suspend, curtail or terminate our operations or delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research and development programs. We have a history of losses; we expect to continue to incur losses; and we may never become profitable. pSivida was formed in 2000. As primarily a research and development company, we have incurred operating losses in every year of existence. Under A-IFRS (effective from July 1, 2004), we incurred a net loss of A$28.2 million (US$21.1 million) for the year ended June 30, 2006, and a net loss of A$16.8 million (US$12.7 million) for the year ended June 30, 2005. As of June 30, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit under A-IFRS of A$56.9 million (US$40.9 million). We have not achieved profitability and expect to continue to incur net losses through at least 2010, and we may incur losses beyond that time, particularly if we are not successful in having BrachySil or Medidur approved and widely marketed by that time. Even if BrachySil or Medidur is approved and marketed at some point in 2010 or beyond, sales of BrachySil, Medidur or any of our other marketed products, combined with royalty income and any other sources of revenue, may not be sufficient to result in profitability at that time or at any other time. The extent of our future losses and how long it may take for us to achieve profitability are uncertain. We recently acquired CDS, which has incurred net losses in each of its last five fiscal years (ended December 31). As a result of the acquisition, we have been receiving royalties from sales of Vitrasert, CDS’ first commercial product. However, sales of Vitrasert have declined in each of the past four years and we do not expect that Vitrasert royalties will comprise a significant portion of our future revenue. Following regulatory approval for Retisert in April 2005, CDS entered into an advance royalty agreement with Bausch & Lomb in June 2005 pursuant to which CDS received US$3.0 million (A$3.9 million) in lieu of US$6.25 million (A$8.5 million) of Retisert royalties that otherwise would be payable under the license agreement. Subsequent to June 30, 2006, of the next US$6.6 million (A$9.0 million) of future royalties otherwise payable from the sales of Retisert, US$5.7 million (A$7.8 million) will be retained by Bausch & Lomb. We are unable to predict the future sales of Retisert by Bausch & Lomb and, as a result, we cannot predict when, if ever, Bausch & Lomb will have retained that amount of royalties and we will begin receiving full royalty payments from them. If our funds are insufficient to pay the principal of and interest on our convertible notes, then our noteholders may declare an event of default, foreclose on the collateral and require immediate payment of the entire principal of the notes plus penalties. On November 16, 2005, we issued a subordinated convertible promissory note in the principal amount of US$15 million (A$19.7 million) to an institutional investor. On September 14, 2006, in connection with an amendment of the note, we repaid US$2.5 million (A$3.3 million) of the principal. The convertible note must be repaid in full in cash on the third anniversary of its issuance, unless the principal is earlier paid or converted. In addition, the holder may require payment in cash of up to US$6.25 million (A$8.3 million) of the principal on each of July 31, 2007 and January 31, 2008. The holder of the note has also been provided with a security interest in our existing royalty streams from Bausch & Lomb, which represent a substantial portion of our current revenue. In connection with the terms of a further letter agreement with the investor dated October 17, 2006, we are obligated to make compensating payments of US$800,000 (A$1.1 million) on December 28, 2006 and US$150,000 (A$205,000) each on January 31, 2007, February 28, 2007 and March 30, 2007. If we are unable to pay interest or principal that becomes due or otherwise are unable to make payments under the note or related agreements, the holder may foreclose on and collect those royalties or sell that collateral. The proceeds of any sale would be applied to satisfy amounts owed to the holder. -5- On September 26, 2006, we issued new subordinated convertible promissory notes in the principal amount of US$6.5 million (A$8.5 million) to other investors. These convertible notes must be repaid in full in cash on the third anniversary of their issuance, unless the principal is earlier paid or converted. In addition, under specified conditions, the holders may require payment in cash of up to US$3.25 million (A$4.25 million) of the principal on each of August 14, 2008 (unless the initial note is still outstanding) and February 14, 2009 (or such later date that is 91 days after the maturity date of the initial note). All of our outstanding subordinated convertible promissory notes bear interest at the rate of 8% per annum. We may make quarterly interest payments on the notes by issuing ADSs if certain conditions are met, including the continued effectiveness of registration statements covering the ADSs, continued listing of our shares or ADSs, and timely delivery of conversion ADSs during the period preceding the payment date, among others. If any of the conditions are not met, we will be required to pay the interest due in cash. Given the cash needs of our business and our current level of revenue, we cannot predict whether or not we will be able to meet any of these cash payment obligations or what impact these obligations might have on our business and operations. If we do not obtain certain waivers or fail to maintain an effective resale registration statement for our ADSs, then we may owe further penalties related to the inability of certain shareholders to sell ADSs. We may not have sufficient funds to pay such penalties. In connection with our acquisition of CDS, we entered into an agreement to register with the SEC the resale of ADSs issued to CDS stockholders. We were required to complete that registration no later than June 28, 2006. Our agreement to register these ADSs required that we pay cash penalties equal to one percent of the number of such ADSs multiplied by the deemed value of such ADSs at the time of closing, or US$5.087 per ADS, for every 30-day period until the registration statement became effective and for certain periods during which the registration statement could not be used to sell ADSs. The registration statement was declared effective on September 29, 2006 and we filed additional information making it usable to effect sales on October 31, 2006. To date, we have not paid any of these penalties. Although we are seeking a waiver of these payment requirements from the holders of ADSs issued in connection with the acquisition of CDS, such persons may not grant us such a waiver on reasonable terms or at all. We may not have sufficient funds to pay these penalties. If we are forced to do so, we may be required to suspend, curtail or terminate our operations or delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research and development programs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In connection with the amendments to our initial convertible note financing and our subsequent new convertible note financing, we have entered into agreements to register with the SEC the resale of additional ADSs issued to the investors. Our obligation to register ADSs in each of these transactions is subject to a deadline, which may be extended in certain situations, and our failure to meet this deadline results in monetary penalties against us. With respect to the amendments to our initial convertible note financing, we are required to complete the registration of shares issuable pursuant to exercise of the additional warrant granted no later than December 31, 2006. If our registration statement registering those shares is not effective by that date, we must pay penalties of 7.5% of the outstanding principal amount of the initial note and, from that date until the date on which the effectiveness failure is cured, 1.0% of the outstanding principal amount of the note per 30-day period. Further, failure to comply with this deadline within 60 days may result in an event of default under the convertible note. With respect to our new convertible note financing, we are required to complete the registration no later than January 1, 2007. Failure to comply with this deadline may result in our having to pay cash penalties equal to one percent of the convertible note purchase price, or US$65,000 (A$85,000) per 30 days, until the registration statement becomes effective. Further, failure to comply with this deadline by in excess of 60 days may result in an event of default under the new convertible notes. Each of these registration deadlines is subject to extension under certain circumstances. -6- Our failure or inability to maintain the effectiveness of any of our registrations or to adequately update information in the related prospectuses may subject us to additional penalties. In addition, we expect to have other registration obligations with similar penalty provisions related to registration deadlines in connection with future financing activities. Most of our products and planned products are based upon new and unproven technologies, and if we are unable to develop products from those technologies, we may not have sufficient revenue to continue our operations. We are currently developing products based upon Durasert, BioSilicon and CODRUG drug delivery systems for multiple applications across many sectors of healthcare, including controlled drug delivery and diagnostics. The successful development and market acceptance of our current products and potential product technologies is subject to many risks. These risks include the potential for ineffectiveness, lack of safety, unreliability, failure to receive necessary regulatory clearances or approvals and the emergence of superior or equivalent products, as well as the effect of changes in future general economic conditions. To date, we have developed two marketed products, Vitrasert and Retisert, which are based on our Durasert technology and have been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, for treatment of two sight-threatening eye diseases. However, these technologies may prove useful in other products which would also be subject to many risks. Our failure to develop our current and future products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, BioSilicon is a new and unproven technology for which we have received no FDA approvals. We rely heavily upon patents and trade secrets to protect our proprietary technologies. If we fail to protect our intellectual property or infringe on others’ technologies, our ability to market our products may suffer. Protection of intellectual property rights is crucial to our business, since that is how we keep others from copying the innovations which are central to our existing and future products. Our success is dependent on whether we can obtain patents, defend our existing patents and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties. As of September 28, 2006, we had 95 patents and over 322 pending patent applications, including patents and pending applications covering our Durasert, BioSilicon and CODRUG technologies. We expect to aggressively patent and protect our proprietary technologies. However, we cannot be sure that any additional patents will be issued to us as a result of our pending or future patent applications or that any of our patents will withstand challenges by others. In addition, we may not have sufficient funds to patent and protect our proprietary technologies to the extent that we would desire or at all. If we were determined to be infringing any third party patent, we could be required to pay damages, alter our products or processes, obtain licenses, pay royalties or cease certain operations. We may not be able to obtain any required licenses on commercially favorable terms, if at all. Our failure to obtain a license for any technology that we may require to commercialize our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, many of the laws of foreign countries in which we intend to operate may treat the protection of proprietary rights differently from, and may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as, laws in Australia, the United States and Patent Co-operation Treaty countries. Prior art may reduce the scope or protection of, or invalidate, patents. Previously conducted research or published discoveries may prevent patents from being granted, invalidate issued patents or narrow the scope of any protection obtained. Reduction in scope of protection or invalidation of our licensed or owned patents, or our inability to obtain patents, may enable other companies to develop products that compete with our products and product candidates on the basis of the same or similar technology. As a result, our patents and those of our licensors may not provide any or sufficient protection against competitors. While we have not been and we are not currently involved in any litigation over intellectual property, such litigation may be necessary to enforce any patents issued or licensed to us or to determine the scope and validity of third party proprietary rights. We may also be sued by one or more third parties alleging that we infringe its intellectual property rights. Any intellectual property litigation would be likely to result in substantial costs to us and diversion of our efforts. If our competitors claim technology also claimed by us and if they prepare and file patent applications in the U.S., we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark office to determine priority of invention, which could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our efforts. Any such litigation or interference proceedings, regardless of the outcome, could be expensive and time consuming. Litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, requiring disputed rights to be licensed from third parties or require us to cease using certain technologies and, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. -7- We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and technology that are not protected by patents to maintain our competitive position. We try to protect this information by entering into confidentiality agreements with parties that have access to it, such as our corporate partners, collaborators, employees, and consultants. Any of these parties could breach these agreements and disclose our confidential information, or our competitors might learn of the information in some other way. If any material trade secret, know-how or other technology not protected by a patent were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor, our competitive position could be materially harmed. If we do not receive the necessary regulatory approvals, we will be unable to commercialize our products. Our current and future activities are and will be subject to regulation by governmental authorities in the U.S., Europe, Singapore and other countries. Before we can manufacture, market and sell any of our products, we must first obtain approval from the FDA and/or foreign regulatory authorities. In order to obtain these approvals, pre-clinical studies and clinical trials must demonstrate that each of our products is safe for human use and effective for its targeted disease. Our proposed products are in various stages of pre-clinical and clinical testing. If clinical trials for any of these products are not successful, those products cannot be manufactured and sold and will not generate revenue from sales. Clinical trials for our product candidates may fail or be delayed by many factors, including the following: · our lack of sufficient funding to pursue trials rapidly or at all; · our inability to attract clinical investigators for trials; · our inability to recruit patients in sufficient numbers or at the expected rate; · adverse side effects; · failure of the trials to demonstrate a product’s safety or efficacy; · our failure to meet FDA or other regulatory agency requirements for clinical trial design or for demonstrating efficacy for a particular product; · our inability to follow patients adequately after treatment; · changes in the design or manufacture of a product; · our inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of materials for use in clinical trials; and · governmental or regulatory delays. Results from pre-clinical testing and early clinical trials often do not accurately predict results of later clinical trials. Data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical activities are susceptible to varying interpretations which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Data from pre-clinical studies, early clinical trials and interim periods in multi-year trials are preliminary and may change, and final data from pivotal trials for such products may differ significantly. Adverse side effects may develop that delay, limit or prevent the regulatory approval of products, or cause their regulatory approvals to be limited or even rescinded. Additional trials necessary for approval may not be undertaken or may ultimately fail to establish the safety and efficacy of proposed products. The FDA or other regulatory agency may not approve proposed products for manufacture and sale. In addition to testing, regulatory agencies impose various requirements on manufacturers and sellers of products under their jurisdiction, such as labeling, manufacturing practices, record keeping and reporting. Regulatory agencies may also require post-marketing testing and surveillance programs to monitor a product’s effects. Furthermore, changes in existing regulations or the adoption of new regulations could prevent us from obtaining, or affect the timing of, future regulatory approvals. -8- At present, Vitrasert and Retisert are our only products that have been approved for sale in the U.S. for specific purposes. BrachySil and other product candidates utilizing BioSilicon have not been approved and their approval in the future remains uncertain. Any product approvals we achieve could also be withdrawn for failure to comply with regulatory standards or due to unforeseen problems after the product’s marketing approval. Fast track status for Medidur may not actually lead to faster development, regulatory review or approval, and if approval is delayed, the future growth of our revenue that this product is expected to generate will also be delayed. The FDA has granted fast track designation to Medidur for the treatment of diabetic macular edema, or DME. Although this designation makes this product eligible for expedited approval procedures, it does not ensure faster development, review or approval compared to the conventional FDA procedures. Further, the FDA may withdraw the fast track designation if it determines that the designation is no longer supported by emerging data from clinical trials or if it determines that the criteria for the designation is no longer satisfied. We have a limited ability to develop and market our products ourselves. If we are unable to find marketing or commercialization partners, or our marketing or commercialization partners do not successfully develop or market our products, we may be unable to effectively develop and market our products on our own. We presently have no marketing or sales staff. Achieving market acceptance for the use of our products will require extensive and substantial efforts by experienced personnel as well as expenditure of significant funds. We may not be able to establish sufficient capabilities necessary to achieve market penetration. We intend to license and/or sell our products to companies who will be responsible in large part for sales, marketing and distribution. The amount and timing of resources which may be devoted to the performance of their contractual responsibilities by these licensees are not expected to be within our control. Further, these partners may not perform their obligations. Our business strategy includes entering into collaborative arrangements for the development and commercialization of our product candidates. The curtailment or termination of any of these arrangements could adversely affect our business, our ability to develop and commercialize our products and proposed products and our ability to fund operations. The success of these and future collaborative arrangements will depend heavily on the experience, resources, efforts and activities of our collaborators. Our collaborators have, and are expected to have, significant discretion in making these decisions. Risks that we face in connection with our collaboration strategy include the following: · our collaborative arrangements are, and are expected to be, subject to termination under various circumstances including, in some cases, on short notice and without cause; · we are required, and expect to be required, under our collaborative arrangements not to conduct specified types of research and development in the field that is the subject of the collaboration, limiting the areas of research and development that we can pursue; · our collaborators may develop and commercialize, either alone or with others, products that are similar to or competitive with our products; · our collaborators, consistent with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that have historically acted similarly, may for a variety of reasons change the focus of their development and commercialization efforts or decrease or fail to increase spending related to our products, limiting the ability of our products to reach their potential; and · our collaborators may lack the funding or experience to develop and commercialize our products successfully or may otherwise fail to do so. -9- To the extent that we choose not to, or we are unable to, enter into future license agreements with marketing and sales partners, we may experience increased capital requirements to develop the ability to market and sell future products. We may not be able to market or sell our technology or future products independently in the absence of such agreements. Our current licensees may terminate their agreements with us at any time, and if they do, we may not be able to effectively develop and sell our products. Our licensees have rights of termination under our agreements with them. Exercise of termination rights by those parties may leave us temporarily or permanently without any marketing or sales resources, which may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, our interests may not continue to coincide with those of our partners, and our partners may develop independently or with third parties, products or technologies that could compete with our products. Further, disagreements over rights or technologies or other proprietary interests may occur. We have exclusively licensed our technology with respect to Vitrasert, Retisert and certain other ophthalmic uses to Bausch & Lomb, and with respect to Medidur for DME and certain other ophthalmic uses to Alimera Sciences. Bausch & Lomb is responsible for funding and managing the development and commercialization of all licensed products and can terminate its agreement with us at any time upon 90 days’ written notice. We are jointly funding with Alimera Sciences the development of products licensed under our agreement with them, and Alimera Sciences may terminate its agreement with us if we fail to make a development payment or may terminate the agreement with respect to a particular product if we abandon the product. Further, in the event that we fail to make development payments exceeding US$2.0 million (A$2.7 million) for a product, Alimera Sciences may complete the development using other funds and substantially reduce our economic interest in any sales of the developed product from a share of profits to a sales-based royalty. As of November 30, 2006, we have chosen not to make development payments to Alimera Sciences in an aggregate amount of approximately US$1.9 million (A$2.6 million). Alimera Sciences was incorporated in June 2003 and has limited resources. Either Bausch & Lomb or Alimera Sciences may decide not to continue with or commercialize any or all of the licensed products, change strategic focus, pursue alternative technologies, develop competing products or terminate their agreements with us. While Bausch & Lomb has significant experience in the ophthalmic field and substantial resources, there is no assurance as to whether, and to what extent, that experience and those resources will be devoted to our technologies. Because we do not currently have sufficient funding or internal capabilities to develop and commercialize these products and proposed products, decisions, actions, breach or termination of these agreements by Bausch & Lomb or Alimera Sciences could delay or stop the development or commercialization of Retisert, Medidur for DME or other of our products licensed to such entities. We have licensed BrachySil to Beijing Med-Pharm for China, and similar risks exist under the terms of that license agreement. If our competitors develop more effective products that receive regulatory approval before our products reach the market, our products could be rendered obsolete. We are, or plan to be, engaged in the rapidly evolving and competitive fields of drug delivery and diagnostics. Our competitors include many major pharmaceutical companies and other biotechnology, drug delivery, diagnostics and medical products companies. Many of our potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technological, research and development, marketing and personnel resources than us. Our competitors may succeed in developing alternate technologies and products that: · are more effective and easier to use; · are more economical than those which we have developed; or · would render our technologies and products obsolete and non-competitive in these fields. These competitors may also have greater experience in developing products, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals or clearances and manufacturing and marketing such products or technologies. -10- We believe that pharmaceutical, drug delivery and biotechnology companies, research organizations, governmental entities, universities, hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and individual scientists are seeking to develop the drugs, therapies, products, approaches or methods to treat our targeted diseases or their underlying causes. For many of our targeted diseases, competitors have alternate therapies that are already commercialized or are in various stages of development ranging from discovery to advanced clinical trials. Any of these drugs, therapies, products, approaches or methods may receive government approval or gain market acceptance more rapidly than our products and proposed products, may offer therapeutic or cost advantages or may cure our targeted diseases or their underlying causes completely, which could reduce demand for our products and proposed products and could render them noncompetitive or obsolete. For example, sales of Vitrasert for the treatment of cytomegalovirus, or CMV, retinitis, a disease which affects people with late-stage AIDS, have declined significantly, because of new treatments that delay the onset of late-stage AIDS. Our competitive position is based upon our ability to: · create and maintain scientifically-advanced technology and proprietary products and processes; · attract and retain qualified personnel; · develop safe and efficacious products, alone or in collaboration with others; · obtain patent or other protection for our products and processes; · obtain required government approvals on a timely basis; · manufacture products on a cost-effective basis; and · successfully market products. If we are not successful in meeting these goals, our business could be adversely affected. If we expand our efforts beyond our core area of expertise and experience, then we may have to enter into collaboration agreements that limit the extent to which we can profit from our own technologies. We plan to expand our focus outside of our initial areas of experience and expertise in order to broaden our product pipeline and this will require additional internal expertise or external collaborations in areas in which we currently do not have internal resources and expertise. Such expertise and collaborations may be difficult to obtain. We are currently focused on targeted controlled drug delivery specifically for ophthalmic drug delivery, localized oncology and other controlled delivery mechanisms. We have started to expand our focus into diagnostics and the food industry and may plan to expand into other areas at a later time. In connection with the foregoing, we may have to enter into collaboration arrangements with others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies or products that we would otherwise pursue independently. We may be unable to acquire the necessary expertise or enter into collaboration agreements on acceptable terms. -11- Problems associated with international business operations could affect our ability to manufacture and sell our products. If we encounter such problems, our costs could increase and our development of products could be delayed. We currently maintain offices in Australia, the UK, Singapore and the U.S. BrachySil is produced for us in Germany and the UK, and BioSilicon is produced in-house and by third party contractors in the UK. We are conducting product trials in Singapore and in Europe, we have research and development facilities in the UK and the U.S. and we intend to license and/or sell products in most major world healthcare markets. A number of risks are inherent in our international strategy. In order for us to license and manufacture our products, we must obtain country and jurisdiction-specific regulatory approvals or clearances to comply with regulations regarding safety and quality. We may not be able to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals or clearances in such countries, and we may be required to incur significant costs in obtaining or maintaining foreign regulatory approvals or clearances. In addition, our operations and revenues are subject to a number of risks associated with foreign commerce, including the following: · managing foreign distributors; · staffing and managing foreign operations; · political and economic instability; · foreign currency exchange fluctuations; · foreign tax laws, tariffs and freight rates and charges; · timing and availability of export licenses; · inadequate protection of intellectual property rights in some countries; and · obtaining required governmental approvals. If we encounter problems with product manufacturing, we could experience delays in product development and commercialization, which would adversely affect our future profitability. Our ability to conduct timely preclinical and clinical research and development programs, obtain regulatory approvals, commercialize our product candidates and fulfill our contract manufacturing obligations to others will depend, in part, upon our ability to manufacture our products, either directly or through third parties, in accordance with FDA and other regulatory requirements. We currently have BioSilicon production capability at our facilities in the UK, which may be augmented where required by QinetiQ’s UK production facilities for use in internal and collaborative research. BrachySil is currently manufactured under contract, in accordance with applicable current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, by Hosokawa Micron Group, Atomising Systems Ltd, HighForce Ltd and AEA Technology QSA GmbH. We currently manufacture clinical supplies pursuant to our agreement with Alimera Sciences. We could experience delays in development or commercialization of our proposed products if we are unable to manufacture BioSilicon, BrachySil or other product candidates by ourselves, or we acquire BioSilicon, BrachySil or other product candidates from third parties, such as QinetiQ. We may not be able to manufacture our proposed products successfully or in a cost-effective manner at our own or third party facilities. If we are unable to develop our own manufacturing facilities or to obtain or retain third-party manufacturing on acceptable terms, we may not be able to conduct certain future pre-clinical and clinical testing or to supply commercial quantities of our products. -12- We have licensed to Bausch & Lomb the exclusive rights to manufacture Vitrasert, Retisert and other products covered by its license agreement with us. We have licensed to Alimera Sciences the rights to manufacture Medidur for DME, if approved for marketing, and other products covered by its license agreement. Our current reliance on third party manufacturers for some of our products entails risks, including: · the possibility that third parties may not comply with the FDA’s cGMP regulations, other regulatory requirements, and those of similar foreign regulatory bodies, and may not employ adequate quality assurance practices; · supply disruption, deterioration in product quality or breach of a manufacturing or license agreement by the third party because of factors beyond our control; · the possible termination or non-renewal of a manufacturing or licensing agreement with a third party at a time that is costly or inconvenient to us; and · our inability to identify or qualify an alternative manufacturer in a timely manner, even if contractually permitted to do so. If third-party reimbursement and health care providers do not cover the cost of our products, market acceptance could be limited. In both domestic and foreign markets, our ability to commercialize our products will depend, in part, upon the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors, such as government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the price and cost-effectiveness of medical products. If our products are not considered cost-effective, third-party payors may limit reimbursement. Government and other third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new therapeutic products and by refusing, in some cases, to provide any coverage for uses of approved products for disease indications for which they have not been granted regulatory approval. If government and third-party payors do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for uses of our products, the market acceptance of our products would be limited. There have been a number of U.S. federal and state proposals during the last few years to subject the pricing of pharmaceuticals to government control and to make other changes to the health care system of the U.S. It is uncertain what legislative proposals will be adopted or what actions federal, state or private payors for health care goods and services may take in response to any health care reform proposals or legislation. Similar health care reforms may also be implemented outside of the U.S. We cannot predict the effect health care reforms may have on our business. If we fail to retain some or all of our key personnel, then our business could suffer. We are dependent upon the principal members of our management, administrative and scientific staff. In addition, we believe that our future success in developing our products and achieving a competitive position will depend to a large extent on whether we can attract and retain additional qualified management and scientific personnel. There is strong competition for such personnel within the industry in which we operate and we may not be able to continue to attract such personnel either to Malvern in the United Kingdom or to Massachusetts, where much of our research and development is conducted. Further, the economic climate in Perth could make employee retention difficult there. As we do not have large numbers of employees and our products are unique and highly specialized, the loss of the services of one or more of the senior management or scientific staff, or the inability to attract and retain additional personnel and develop expertise as needed, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we are subject to product liability suits and do not have sufficient insurance to cover damages, our ability to fund research and development would be negatively impacted. The testing, manufacturing, and future marketing and sale of the products utilizing our technologies involves risks that product liability claims may be asserted against us or our licensees. Our current clinical trial insurance may not be adequate or continue to be available, and we may be unable to obtain adequate product liability insurance on reasonable commercial terms, if at all. In the event clinical trial insurance is not adequate, our ability to continue with planned research and development in the relevant area could be negatively impacted. -13- We have experienced rapid changes in our business, and if we fail to effectively manage these changes, we may experience increased expenses. As evidenced by our purchase of the remaining shares of pSiMedica in 2004 and our acquisition of CDS on December 30, 2005, our business is rapidly changing. See “Risks related to our recent acquisition of CDS and other recent transactions”. We may be required to increase the number of our employees, and we may suffer if we do not manage and train our new employees effectively. Further, our efforts span various geographies. Continued operations in multiple locations may place significant strains on our managerial, financial and other resources. The rate of any future expansion, in combination with our complex technologies and products, may demand a level of managerial effectiveness in anticipating, planning, coordinating and meeting our operational needs which we may not be able to successfully provide. In addition, if we make additional acquisitions or divestitures, we could encounter difficulties that harm our business. We may acquire companies, products or technologies that we believe to be complementary to our business. If we do so, we may have difficulty integrating the acquired personnel, operations, products or technologies. In addition, acquisitions may distract our management and employees and increase our expenses, which could harm our business. We may also sell businesses or assets as part of our strategy or if we receive offers from third parties. If we do so, we may sell an asset or business for less than its full value or may lose valuable opportunities attendant to such asset or business. If we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations, our ability to manufacture and commercialize products may be adversely affected. Medical and biopharmaceutical research and development involves the controlled use of hazardous materials, such as radioactive compounds and chemical solvents. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations in the U.S. and abroad governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of such materials and waste products. We could be subject to both criminal liability and civil damages in the event of an improper or unauthorized release of, or exposure of individuals to, hazardous materials. In addition, claimants may sue us for injury or contamination that results from our use or the use by third parties of these materials, and our liability may exceed our total assets. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations is expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development or production efforts or harm our operating results. Risks related to our being headquartered and incorporated outside of the United States You may have difficulty in effecting service of legal process and enforcement of judgments against us or our management. We are a public company limited by shares, registered and operating under the Australian Corporations Act 2001. Several of our directors and officers reside outside the U.S. Substantially all or a substantial portion of the assets of those persons are located outside the U.S. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service on such persons in the U.S. or to enforce, in foreign courts, judgments against such persons obtained in U.S. courts and predicated on the federal securities laws of the U.S. Furthermore, a large percentage of our directly owned assets are located outside the U.S., and, as such, any judgment obtained in the U.S. against us may not be collectible within the U.S. There is doubt as to the enforceability in the Commonwealth of Australia, in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts, of civil liabilities predicated solely upon federal or state securities laws of the U.S., especially in the case of enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts where the defendant has not been properly served in Australia. -14- As a foreign private issuer we do not have to provide you with the same information as an issuer of securities based in the U.S. Because we are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of the rules under the Exchange Act, we are exempt from certain provisions that are applicable to U.S. public companies, including: · the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the SEC of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K; · the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations in respect of a registered security; and · the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and liability for insiders who profit from trades made in a short period of time. Thus, you are not afforded the same protections or information which would be made available to you were you investing in a U.S. public corporation. In accordance with the requirements of the Australian Stock Exchange, we disclose annual and semi-annual results. Until July 1, 2005, our results were presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in Australia, or A-GAAP, and they are now presented in accordance with A-IFRS. Our annual results reported in the U.S. with the SEC include a reconciliation to U.S. GAAP. Our annual results are audited, and our semi-annual results undergo a limited review by our independent auditors. Subject to certain exceptions, we are also required to immediately disclose to the Australian Stock Exchange any information concerning us that a reasonable person would expect to have a material effect on the price or value of our shares. This would include matters such as: · any major new developments relating to our business which are not public knowledge and may lead to a substantial movement in our share price; · any changes in our board of directors; · any purchase or redemption by us of our own equity securities; · interests of directors in our shares or debentures; and · changes in our capital structure. We are required to provide our semi-annual results, and other material information that we disclose in Australia or in the U.S. under the cover of Form 6-K. Nevertheless, this information is not the same and may not be as much information as would be made available to you were you investing in a U.S. public corporation. Risks related to our stock and our ADSs If we are a passive foreign investment company, holders of our shares and ADSs may suffer adverse tax consequences. U.S. holders of our ADSs may experience unfavorable tax consequences if we are treated as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, for any year during which the U.S. holder owned our ADSs. In general, we are a PFIC for any taxable year if either (1) 75% or more of our gross income in the taxable year is passive income, or (2) 50% or more of the average value of our assets in the taxable year produces, or is held for the production of, passive income. We were likely a PFIC for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005. For example, if a U.S. holder disposes of an ADS at a gain, and during any year of its holding period we were a PFIC, then such gain would be taxable as ordinary income and not as capital gain and would be subject to additional taxation based on the length of time the U.S. holder held such stock. Most of the tax consequences of our being a PFIC may be mitigated if the U.S. holder makes certain elections as described in Item 10.E of this Annual Report on Form 20-F under “U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations”. -15- Holders of our ADSs may have limited rights relative to holders of our ordinary shares in certain circumstances. The rights of holders of ADSs with respect to voting of ordinary shares and receiving certain distributions may be limited in certain respects by the deposit agreement entered into by us and Citibank, N.A. For example, although ADS holders are entitled under the deposit agreement, subject to any applicable provisions of Australian law and of our constitution, to instruct the depositary as to the exercise of their voting rights pertaining to the ordinary shares represented by the American Depositary Shares, and the depositary has agreed that it will vote the ordinary shares so represented in accordance with such instructions, ADS holders may not receive notices sent by the depositary in time to ensure that the depositary will vote the ordinary shares. This means that holders of ADSs may not be able to exercise their right to vote. In addition, under the deposit agreement, the depositary has the right to restrict distributions to holders of the ADSs in the event that it is unlawful or impractical to make such distributions. We have no obligation to take any action to permit distributions to holders of our American Depositary Receipts, or ADRs. As a result, holders of ADRs may not receive distributions made by us. Our stock price is volatile. If our trading volume fluctuates significantly, based on events both within and outside our control, you may have difficulty selling your ADSs when you desire to. Since December 2000, the price of our ordinary shares has ranged from A$0.09 to A$1.44 per share, and since January 27, 2005, the price of our ADSs has ranged from US$1.83 to US$12.14. The price of our ordinary shares and ADSs may be affected by developments directly affecting our business and by developments out of our control or unrelated to pSivida. The biotechnology sector in particular, and the stock market generally, are vulnerable to abrupt changes in investor sentiment. Prices of securities and trading volume of companies in the biotechnology industry, including ours, can swing dramatically in ways unrelated to or that bear a disproportionate relationship to, operating performance. Our ordinary share and ADS prices and their trading volumes may fluctuate based on a number of factors including, but not limited to: · clinical trial results and other product and technological developments and innovations; · FDA and other governmental regulatory actions, receipt and timing of approvals of our proposed products, and any denials and withdrawals of approvals; · competitive factors including new product ideas and technologies, clinical trial results and approvals of competitive products in our markets; · advancements with respect to treatment of the diseases targeted by our proposed products; · developments relating to collaborative partners, including execution and termination of agreements, achievement of milestones and receipt of payments; · availability and cost of capital and our financial and operating results; · changes in reimbursement policies or other practices relating to our proposed products or the pharmaceutical industry generally; · meeting, exceeding or failing to meet analysts’ or investors’ expectations, and changes in evaluations and recommendations by securities analysts; · economic, industry and market conditions, changes or trends; and · other factors unrelated to us and the biotechnology industry. In addition, low trading volume may increase the price volatility of our ADSs. Trading volume in our ordinary shares on other markets has not been historically high, and trading volume of our ADSs on the NASDAQ Global Market has also been low. Further, because each of our ADSs represents ten of our ordinary shares, trading volume in our ADSs may be lower than that for our ordinary shares. A thin trading market could cause the price of our ADSs to fluctuate significantly more than the stock market as a whole. For example, trades involving a relatively small number of our ADSs may have a greater impact on the trading price for our ADSs than would be the case if their trading volume were higher. Accordingly, holders of our ADSs may not be able to liquidate a position in our ADSs in the desired time or at the desired price. -16- The fact that we do not expect to pay cash dividends may lead to decreased prices for our stock. We have never paid a cash dividend on our ordinary shares and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividend. We intend to retain future cash earnings, if any, for reinvestment in the development and expansion of our business. In addition, the cash balance requirements in our convertible note agreements limit our ability to pay dividends. If the holders of our outstanding convertible notes, warrants and stock options convert their notes or exercise their warrants and options, your ownership may be diluted and our stock price may decline. The issuance of our ordinary shares or ADSs upon conversion of the convertible notes and upon exercise of the share purchase warrants and stock options would result in dilution to the interests of other holders of our ADSs and ordinary shares. As of November 30, 2006, we had outstanding convertible securities, including stock options and warrants, representing the right to acquire 21,516,205 ADSs (215,162,057 ordinary shares), or approximately 53.8% of our total outstanding shares as of November 30, 2006, including: · US$18.5 million (A$23.8 million) in principal amount of subordinated convertible notes that are convertible, at the option of the note holders, or under certain circumstances at our election, into 9,234,638 ADSs (92,346,385 ordinary shares); · warrants to purchase 9,891,804 ADSs (98,918,040 ordinary shares); and · stock options to purchase the equivalent of 2,389,763 ADSs (23,897,632 ordinary shares). Through November 30, 2006, holders of our convertible notes have exercised their option to convert US$530,723 (A$726,918) in principal amount of and US$4,277 (A$5,858) in interest on the convertible notes for 267,500 ADSs (2,675,000 ordinary shares). Under certain circumstances, the number of shares into which the convertible notes can be converted will be increased. These circumstances include: · in the event we issue securities at a price lower than the price at which the notes may then be converted; · in the event that 108% of the volume-weighted average trading price of our ADSs for the ten trading days prior to April 30, 2007 is lower than the current conversion price; and · in the event that we issue a share dividend or otherwise recapitalize our shares. The warrant exercise prices may also be adjusted under certain circumstances, including, among others, in the event we issue securities in a rights offering at a lower price than the exercise price, or in the event that we issue a share dividend or otherwise recapitalize our shares. Any such downward adjustment of the note conversion price or warrant exercise prices could result in a higher number of ADSs or ordinary shares being issued, resulting in further dilution to existing shareholders. Future issuances and sales of our stock could dilute your ownership and cause our stock price to decline. We intend to continue to finance our operations through the issuance of equity and convertible securities, if feasible, including by way of the public equity markets, private financings and debt. If we raise additional capital through the issuance of equity or securities convertible into equity, existing holders of our securities may experience dilution. Those securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the holders of our ADSs and ordinary shares. Additional financing may not be available to us on favorable terms, and financing available at less favorable terms may lead to more substantial dilution of existing shareholders. -17- Certain of our shareholders own a significant percentage of our ordinary shares and therefore may be able to influence our business in ways that are less beneficial to you. Our current executive officers, directors (including the officers and directors of our subsidiaries) and their affiliates beneficially own or control approximately 8.15% of our outstanding ordinary shares (based on the number of our ordinary shares outstanding on November 30, 2006 and assuming the issuance of shares upon the exercise of options vested or vesting within 60 days of November 30, 2006). As a result, if our executive officers and directors and their affiliates were all to vote in the same way, they would have the ability to exert significant influence over our board of directors and how we operate our business. The concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company. If we fail to comply with internal controls evaluations and attestation requirements our stock price could be adversely affected. We are subject to United States securities laws, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations adopted by the SEC pursuant to such Act. Based on our evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures, as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) and Rule 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, we have concluded that, as of June 30, 2006, our disclosure controls and procedures were ineffective in that we had insufficient accounting personnel who have sufficient knowledge and experience in U.S. GAAP and the U.S. SEC accounting requirements. As a foreign private issuer, under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the related regulations, we are required to perform an evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting, including (1) management’s annual report on its assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting for the year ending June 30, 2007 and (2) our independent registered public accounting firm’s annual audit of management’s assessment beginning in the year ending June 30, 2008. If our foreign private issuer status were to change prior to June 30, 2007, the attestation requirement of our independent registered public accounting firm would be accelerated to cover the year ending June 30, 2007. We are just beginning the systems documentation and evaluation process. Combined with our initial testing of key internal controls during fiscal 2007 and the subsequent evaluation and testing by our independent registered public accounting firm commencing in fiscal 2008, we expect compliance with these requirements to be time-consuming and expensive. If we fail to complete the evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting in time, if we identify material weaknesses in these internal controls or if our independent registered public accounting firm does not timely attest to our evaluation, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and decreased public confidence in our internal controls, which may adversely affect the market price of our stock. Risks related to our recent acquisition of CDS and recent financing transactions The following risk factors relate to our December 30, 2005 acquisition of CDS, as well as three recently completed financing transactions: (1) our US$4.3 million (A$5.7 million) private placement structured as a private investment in public equity, referred to herein as the PIPE; (2) our US$15 million (A$20.5 million) convertible note financing, referred to herein as our initial convertible note financing and (3) our US$6.5 million (A$8.5 million) convertible note financing referred to herein as the new convertible note financing. A default under our outstanding convertible notes could seriously harm our operations. On September 14, 2006, we repaid US$2.5 million (A$3.3 million) of our initial subordinated convertible promissory note issued in November 2005 and agreed to convert the unsecured, un-guaranteed debt represented by the note into secured, guaranteed debt. On September 26, 2006, we issued US$6.5 million (A$8.5 million) of new subordinated convertible promissory notes to other investors. Each of the notes and their respective related agreements contain numerous events of default which include: · failure to register securities or maintain the registration of securities for resale after applicable cure periods; · suspension of our ADSs or ordinary shares from trading for five consecutive trading days; · failure to issue shares pursuant to a conversion within the applicable cure period; -18- · failure to pay interest, principal payments or other fees when due; · if any indebtedness exceeding, US$250,000 (A$333,000) is declared due and payable prior to its specified maturity; · a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding instituted by or against us or a material subsidiary which is not dismissed within 30 days; · breach by us of any material covenant or term or condition of the notes or any agreements made in connection therewith; and · breach by us of any material representation or warranty made in the notes or in any agreements made in connection therewith. If we default on the notes, a holder could demand that we redeem the full outstanding amount. In that event, any cash required to be paid would most likely come out of our working capital, which may not be sufficient to repay the amounts due. In addition, since we rely on our working capital for our day to day operations, such a default on the notes could materially adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition to such extent that we are forced to restructure, file for bankruptcy, sell assets or cease operations. Further, our obligations under the initial notes are secured by the royalties on our currently marketed products and a guaranty by our U.S. subsidiary, pSivida Inc. Failure to fulfill our obligations under those notes and related agreements could lead to loss of these assets and subject pSivida Inc. to direct liability in the U.S., which would be detrimental to our financial condition and operations. We may fail to integrate our operations successfully with the operations of CDS. As a result, pSivida and CDS may not achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger, which could adversely affect the price of ADSs. We entered into the merger agreement and consummated the merger with the expectation that the merger would result in benefits to the combined companies, including the opportunity to combine the two companies’ technologies, products and product candidates and the opportunity for us to establish a substantial presence in the U.S. that would facilitate access to U.S. markets. However, these expected benefits may not be fully realized. Failure of the combined company to meet the challenges involved with successfully integrating the personnel, products, technology and research and development operations of the two companies following the merger or to realize any of the other anticipated benefits of the merger, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Any such adverse effect could impair our financial condition and results of operations, or impair those of our subsidiaries, including pSivida Inc. These integration efforts may be difficult and time consuming, especially considering the highly technical and complex nature of each company’s products. The challenges involved in this integration include the following: · coordinating research and development operations in a rapid and efficient manner; · combining platform technologies of disparate sources; · demonstrating to collaboration partners that the merger will not result in adverse changes in technology focus or development standards; · retaining key alliances with collaboration partners; · absorbing costs and delays in implementing overlapping systems and procedures, including financial accounting systems and accounting principles; · persuading employees that our business culture and that of CDS are compatible, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees; and · overcoming potential distraction of management attention and resources from the business of the combined company. -19- We may not successfully integrate our operations and technology with those of CDS in a timely manner, or at all. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of the merger to the extent, or in the timeframe anticipated which could significantly harm our business. Our operating results could be adversely affected as a result of purchase accounting treatment, and the corresponding impact of amortization or impairment of other intangibles relating to the merger, if the results of the combined company do not offset these additional expenses. Under A-IFRS (effective from July 1, 2005), we accounted for the merger with CDS using the purchase method of accounting. Under purchase accounting, we recorded the market value of our ADSs, cash, and other consideration issued in connection with the merger and the amount of direct transaction costs as the cost of acquiring the business of CDS. We allocated that cost to the individual assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including identifiable intangible assets, based on their respective estimated fair values. The amount we allocated to goodwill was A$30.4 million, the amount we allocated to patents was A$88.5 million and the amount we allocated to in-process research and development, or IPR&D, was A$34.3 million, giving rise to a deferred tax liability of approximately A$32.5 million net of deferred tax assets. Goodwill is not subject to amortization, but is subject to at least an annual impairment analysis, which may result in an impairment charge if the carrying value of the cash-generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated exceeds its fair value. The amount allocated to patents is being amortized over a 12-year period following completion of the merger, or approximately A$7.4 million per fiscal year. Acquired IPR&D is subject to annual impairment analysis, which may result in a write-down of its carrying value. At such times, if any, that the project included in acquired IPR&D is successfully developed and available for commercial use, it will become subject to amortization over its then estimated useful life. As a result, purchase accounting treatment of the merger will increase our net loss or decrease our net income in the foreseeable future, which could have a material and adverse effect on the future market value of our ADSs. If CDS’ former stockholders sell substantial amounts of ADSs, the market price of ADSs may decline. The resale by former CDS stockholders of our ADSs after the merger could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. In connection with the merger, we have issued 16,104,779 ADSs. While those ADSs were not initially freely tradable, we have registered their resale for stockholders entering into the registration rights agreement. Those ADSs became freely tradable under U.S. securities laws as of October 31, 2006. We may have liability under the U.S. securities laws related to the recent changes to our outstanding convertible note. On September 14, 2006, we revised certain terms of the initial subordinated convertible promissory note that we issued on November 16, 2005. In connection with the amendments, we repaid US$2.5 million (A$3.3 million) of the outstanding principal of the existing note and granted the holder an additional warrant to purchase 5.7 million ADSs and a security interest in our current royalties. Because we had earlier filed a registration statement related to the ordinary shares represented by ADSs underlying the initial note and the warrant issued with it, the revisions to the note and the issuance of the additional warrant, and our subsequent filing of an amendment to our registration statement to include the shares issuable pursuant thereto, may have resulted in a violation of the federal securities laws. If the investor were to bring an action in court successfully making such an argument, we could be required to rescind the modified note and warrants for a period of one year following the date of the violation. In addition, if it is determined that we offered securities without properly registering them under federal or state law, or securing an exemption from registration, regulators could impose monetary fines or other sanctions as provided under these laws. ITEM 