RISK FACTORSWe have identified the following risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also significantly impair our business operations. Our business could be harmed by any of these risks. You should carefully consider the risks described below, in conjunction with the other information and consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this annual report when considering an investment in us. You should pay particular attention to the fact that we conduct our operations in Italy and are governed by a legal and regulatory environment that in some respects differs significantly from the environment that prevails in other countries with which you may be familiar. The value of our ADSs or ordinary shares could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. We may not be able to successfully launch and market Defitelio in the EU, or obtain regulatory approval in other countries, including the United States, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.In October 2013, the EC granted marketing authorization under exceptional circumstances for Defitelio for the treatment of severe VOD in adults and children undergoing HSCT therapy. Our wholly-owned subsidiary, Gentium GmbH, together with other subsidiaries of Jazz, commenced the launch of Defitelio in Europe in March 2014, with an initial launch in Germany and Austria. We expect to launch in additional European countries on a rolling basis during 2014 and 2015, subject to receipt of pricing and reimbursement approvals as applicable. Any delay in the planned timing of the launch of Defitelio would negatively affect anticipated revenue from Defitelio in 2014 and could negatively affect our growth prospects.We are making pricing and reimbursement submissions with respect to Defitelio in those European countries where pricing and reimbursement approvals are required for launch. We cannot predict the timing of Defitelio’s launch in countries in which we are awaiting pricing and reimbursement guidelines. If we experience delays and unforeseen difficulties in obtaining pricing and reimbursement approvals, the planned launch would be delayed in the applicable countries and our anticipated revenue from Defitelio in 2014 and our growth prospects could be negatively affected. We have developed estimates of anticipated pricing, which are based on our research and understanding of the product and target market. However, due to efforts to provide for containment of health care costs, one or more countries may not support our estimated level of governmental pricing and reimbursement for Defitelio, particularly in light of the budget crises faced by a number of countries in Europe, which would negatively impact anticipated revenue from Defitelio. In addition, until 2008, we sold forms of defibrotide in Italy to treat vascular disease with risk of thrombosis at a price that was substantially lower than the anticipated commercial price for Defitelio. The regulators in Italy may use the price of the past sales by us as a reference price for Defitelio, which may make it more difficult for us to justify our requested higher commercial price, which would also negatively impact anticipated revenue from Defitelio in Italy.Furthermore, after initial price and reimbursement approvals, reductions in prices and changes in reimbursement levels can be triggered by multiple factors, including reference pricing systems and publication of discounts by third party payors or authorities in other countries. In the EU, prices can be reduced further by parallel distribution and parallel trade, or arbitrage between low-priced and high-priced countries. If any of these events occurs, our anticipated revenue from Defitelio would be negatively affected.We also cannot predict the level of sales of Defitelio in Europe after its planned launch. If sales of Defitelio do not reach the levels we expect, our anticipated revenue from Defitelio would be negatively affected which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.Defitelio was authorized under “exceptional circumstances” because it was not possible to obtain complete information about the product due to the rarity of the disease and because ethical considerations prevented conducting a study directly comparing Defitelio with a placebo. A marketing authorization granted under exceptional circumstances is subject to approval conditions and an annual reassessment of the risk-benefit balance by the EMA. As such, if we fail to meet the approval condition for Defitelio, which requires that we set up a patient registry to investigate the long term safety, health outcomes and patterns of utilization of defibrotide during normal use, or if it is determined that the balance of risk and benefit changes materially, the EMA could suspend, impose variation or withdraw the marketing authorization for Defitelio. This could negatively impact our anticipated revenue from Defitelio and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.Although Defitelio has been approved in Europe under exceptional circumstances, a prior NDA submission seeking 9Table of Contentsapproval in the United States for defibrotide for the treatment of VOD was voluntarily withdrawn from consideration in 2011 in order to address issues raised by the FDA. We are currently assessing what we believe would be the optimal path for potential approval of defibrotide in the United States, which may include filing a new application with existing clinical data or generating additional clinical data before a new application is ready for submission and FDA review. We are also assessing the potential for approval of defibrotide in other countries and for additional development of defibrotide in other indications. We cannot know when, if ever, defibrotide will be approved in the United States or in any other country or under what circumstances, and what, if any, additional clinical or other development activities will be required in order to potentially obtain such regulatory approval and the cost associated with such required activities if any. If we fail to obtain approval for defibrotide in other countries or for new indications, our anticipated revenue from defibrotide and our growth prospects would be negatively affected.The Marketing Authorization Application, or MAA, we initially filed with the EMA in 2011 sought approval for defibrotide for the treatment and prevention of VOD in adults and children. The approval we received from the EC in October 2013 was for a narrower indication – the treatment of severe VOD in adults and children undergoing HSCT therapy. The scope of any future approvals we receive may negatively affect our growth prospects. While we have limited revenue from sales of defibrotide on a named patient basis, we cannot predict whether historical revenues from named patient programs will continue or whether we will be able to continue to distribute defibrotide on a named patient basis.Defibrotide is currently available in approximately 40 countries on a named patient basis and is being distributed to patients diagnosed with VOD in the United States through an expanded access program pursuant to a treatment IND protocol. In certain European countries, reimbursement for products that have not yet received marketing authorization is provided through national named patient or compassionate use programs. Such reimbursement may cease to be available if authorization for named patient or compassionate use programs expires or is terminated. While we have generated and we continue to generate revenue on the distribution of defibrotide through named patient programs, we cannot predict whether historical revenues from these programs will continue, whether we will be able to continue to distribute defibrotide on a named patient basis in these countries, or whether the launch of Defitelio in Europe will proceed as planned and commercial revenues will replace revenues historically generated from sales on a named patient basis. Any failure to maintain revenues from sales of defibrotide on a named patient basis and/or to generate higher revenues following the launch of Defitelio would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.We currently rely upon a sole processor, Patheon, to process defibrotide into its finished form, and we may not be able to quickly replace Patheon if it is unable to perform this service.With respect to defibrotide, we have contracted with Patheon to process the defibrotide compound into its finished form at Patheon’s manufacturing facility in Italy. Patheon is currently the sole processor of finished Defitelio. If Patheon does not or is not able to perform these services for any reason, it may take time and resources to implement and execute the necessary technology transfer to another processor, and such a delay could potentially cause us to breach contractual obligations with distributors or other customers which we have entered into or may in the future enter into, violate local laws requiring us to deliver the product to those in need, and negatively impact our product launch and anticipated revenues.Consistent with our long-term manufacturing strategy, and in order to secure an additional source to manufacture commercial supply of Defitelio, we have initiated work with Fresenius Kabi, a global health care company specialized in lifesaving medicines and technologies for infusion, to conduct a technology transfer of our manufacturing process for the finished form of Defitelio to their manufacturing site in Graz, Austria. Subject to a successful technology transfer, including manufacture of process validation batches, and receipt of all necessary regulatory approvals, we intend to qualify Fresenius Kabi as a second source of Defitelio. The process of technology transfer is complicated, and Fresenius Kabi may not be able to successfully obtain regulatory approval to produce Defitelio commercially, which could negatively impact our anticipated revenues if Patheon for any reason does not or cannot provide us with sufficient quantities of finished product to meet our clinical and commercial needs.Our manufacturing activities and those of our defibrotide processor and any future defibrotide processor are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight, which may result in significant additional expense and limit our ability to commercialize Defitelio and to provide the other APIs we manufacture. We manufacture certain APIs, including the defibrotide drug substance, at our manufacturing facilities. In addition, we have engaged Patheon to process defibrotide into the finished product at its Italian manufacturing plant. These facilities are subject to continuing regulation by the Italian Health Authority and other Italian regulatory authorities with respect to the manufacturing of APIs, including the defibrotide drug substance, and defibrotide in its finished form. These facilities are also 10Table of Contentssubject to inspection and regulation by the EMA with respect to the manufacturing of the defibrotide drug substance and its finished form and the other APIs we manufacture. Also, part of the process to obtain FDA and EMA approval for defibrotide is to obtain certification from those authorities that these facilities are in compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP. Following initial approval, if any, regulatory authorities will continue to inspect our manufacturing facilities, in some cases unannounced, to confirm ongoing compliance with cGMP. These regulators may deny approval to manufacture our APIs or otherwise require us to stop manufacturing our APIs, including defibrotide, if they determine that either our facilities or our third party processor’s facility does not meet the standards of compliance required under applicable regulations. In addition, these regulators may require us to complete costly alterations to our facilities.We use hazardous materials in our manufacturing facilities, and any claims relating to the improper handling, storage, release or disposal of these materials could be time-consuming and expensive.Our API manufacturing involves the controlled storage, use and disposal of chemicals and solvents. We are subject to Italian laws, which implement EU directives and regulations governing the use, transportation, treatment, storage, handling and disposal of solid and hazardous materials, wastewater discharges and air emissions. The environmental management system for our plant was certified under the UNI EN ISO 14001 Standard on April 20, 2007 and under the Eco-management and Audit Scheme, or EMAS, on July 26, 2007. These certifications were valid for a three-year period. Both certifications have been renewed into 2016. Our environmental policy is designed to comply with current regulations on environmental protection, to provide for continuous improvement of our manufacturing performance, to protect our employees’ health and safety and to respect the safety of people living or working close to our plant and in the surrounding community. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these hazardous materials comply with the standards prescribed by these laws and regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury from hazardous materials. If an accident occurs, an injured party could seek to hold us liable for any damages that result and any liability could exceed the limits or fall outside the coverage of our insurance. We may not be able to maintain insurance on acceptable terms, or at all. We may incur significant costs to comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations.We may have difficulty obtaining raw material for defibrotide.Defibrotide is produced from DNA extracted from swine intestinal mucosa. La.bu.nat. S.r.l., or La.bu.nat., is our sole supplier of swine intestinal mucosa. La.bu.nat.’s processing centers may be evaluated and inspected by regulatory authorities in connection with regulatory approvals and the ongoing manufacture of our products. If La.bu.nat. experiences safety or other issues that impact its ability to supply swine intestinal mucosa to us as needed, we may not be able to find alternative suppliers in a timely fashion. In that case, we would have to slow or cease our manufacture of defibrotide which could negatively impact our product launch and anticipated revenues.Historically, there has been no significant price volatility for any of our raw materials. However, given the demand for swine intestinal mucosa for heparin, we may experience volatility in the price of swine intestinal mucosa. In addition, the widespread illness or destruction of pigs could result in volatility in the price of swine intestinal mucosa, which may negatively impact our anticipated revenues.It is difficult and costly to protect our proprietary rights relating to defibrotide, and we may not be able to ensure their protection.Our commercial success depends in part on obtaining and maintaining patent protection and/or trade secret protection of defibrotide and its use and the methods used to manufacture it, as well as successfully defending these patents against third party challenges, and successfully protecting our trade secrets. Our ability to protect defibrotide from unauthorized making, using, selling, offering to sell or importation by third parties depends on the extent to which we have rights under valid and enforceable patents, or have trade secrets that cover these activities. We have a portfolio of U.S. and non-U.S. patents and patent applications relating to various compositions of defibrotide, methods of use and methods of characterization, which will expire at various times between April 2017 and June 2032. Changes in patent laws could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the enforcement or defense of our issued patents. Any patent may be challenged, invalidated, held unenforceable or circumvented. In addition, our patents may not prevent other companies from developing similar or therapeutically equivalent products. In recent years, several companies have been extremely aggressive in challenging patents covering pharmaceutical products, and the challenges have often been successful. We cannot assure you that our patents will not be challenged by third parties or that we will be successful in any defense we undertake. Failure to successfully defend a patent challenge could materially and adversely affect our business.We cannot ensure that others will not be issued patents that may prevent the sale of defibrotide or require licensing and the payment of significant fees or royalties. We may be unable to avoid infringement of third party patents and may have to 11Table of Contentsobtain a license, defend an infringement action, or challenge the validity of the patents in court. A license may be unavailable on terms and conditions acceptable to us, if at all. Patent litigation is costly and time-consuming, and we may be unable to prevail in any such patent litigation or devote sufficient resources to pursue such litigation. If we do not obtain a license under necessary patents, are found liable for infringement, or are not able to have such patents declared invalid, we may be liable for significant money damages or be precluded from the manufacture, use or sale of defibrotide in a manner requiring such licenses.Trade secrets are difficult to protect. Although we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets and other unpatented proprietary information, our employees, consultants, advisors and partners may unintentionally or willfully disclose our proprietary information to competitors, and we may not have adequate remedies for such disclosures. Protracted and costly litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights. Courts in certain jurisdictions are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. Failure to obtain or maintain patent and trade secret protection, for any reason, could have a material adverse effect on our business.We face substantial competition from other companies, including companies with greater resources and larger sales organizations than we have.Defitelio is the first approved treatment in the EU for the treatment of severe VOD in HSCT. Various anti-clotting strategies have been tried by researchers with mixed results, including Activase (Alteplase), a recombinant tissue plasminogen activator, marketed by Genentech, Inc., generic heparin sodium injection, and Thrombate III (antithrombin III (human)), marketed by Grifols Therapeutics, Inc. While there is currently no direct competition to Defitelio to treat severe VOD, changes in the types of conditioning regimens used as part of HSCT may affect the incidence rate of VOD and demand for Defitelio. In addition, there may be organizations, including large pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies, as well as academic and research organizations and government agencies, who are interested in, or are currently, pursuing the research and development of drug therapies that target the blood vessel wall. The commercial potential of Defitelio may be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop or acquire and commercialize products that are safer or more effective, have fewer side effects, are easier to administer or are less expensive than Defitelio. Many of our competitors, particularly large pharmaceutical and life sciences companies, have substantially greater research and development capabilities and financial, operational and human resources than we do. Many of our competitors are able to deploy more personnel to market and sell their products than we do. We currently have a relatively small number of sales representatives compared with the number of sales representatives of most other pharmaceutical companies with marketed products. Each of our sales representatives is responsible for a territory of significant size. The continued growth of Defitelio may require expansion of our sales force and sales support organization, and we may need to commit significant additional funds, management and other resources to the growth of our sales organization. We also have to compete with other pharmaceutical and life sciences companies to recruit, hire, train and retain sales and marketing personnel, and turnover in our sales force and marketing personnel could negatively affect sales. If our specialty sales force and sales organization are not appropriately sized to adequately promote Defitelio, the commercial potential of Defitelio may be negatively affected.Conducting clinical trials is costly and time-consuming, and the outcomes are uncertain. A failure to prove safety and efficacy in clinical trials would require us to discontinue development, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.We are evaluating potential development of defibrotide in indications in addition to the treatment of severe VOD in adults and children undergoing HSCT therapy. These development efforts may not be successful, and any adverse events or other information generated during the course of our studies related to defibrotide could result in action by the EMA or other regulatory agencies, which may restrict our ability to sell, or sales of, Defitelio. Clinical testing can take many years to complete and failure can occur any time during the clinical trial process. Any failure or delay in completing clinical trials for additional indications or the generation of additional clinical data could materially and adversely affect the maintenance and growth of the markets for defibrotide, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and overall growth prospects. Although Defitelio has been approved in Europe, a prior NDA submission for defibrotide in the United States was voluntarily withdrawn from consideration in 2011 before an FDA decision on accepting the application for filing, based on issues raised by the FDA. We are currently assessing what we believe would be the optimal path for potential approval of defibrotide in the United States, which may include filing a new application with existing clinical data or generating additional clinical data before a new application is ready for submission and FDA review. We cannot know when, if ever, defibrotide will be approved in the United States or under what circumstances, and what, if any, additional clinical or other development 12Table of Contentsactivities will be required in order to potentially obtain regulatory approval in the United States and the cost associated with such required activities, if any. These development efforts may not be successful, which could adversely affect our potential future revenue from defibrotide and our growth prospects.Clinical trials can be delayed or halted for a variety of reasons, including delays or failures in obtaining regulatory authorization to commence a trial because of safety concerns of regulators or failure to follow regulatory guidelines; delays or failures in obtaining clinical materials and manufacturing sufficient quantities for use in trials; delays or failures in obtaining approval of our clinical trial protocols from Ethics Committees to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective study site; delays in recruiting patients to participate in a clinical trial; failure of our clinical trials and clinical investigators to be in compliance with regulations applicable to the conduct of clinical trials; unforeseen safety issues; inability to monitor patients adequately during or after treatment or at multiple study sites; failure of our third party clinical trial managers to satisfactorily perform their contractual duties, comply with regulations or meet expected deadlines; or insufficient funds to complete the trials.The results from early clinical trials may not be predictive of results obtained in later and larger clinical trials, and later clinical trials may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy despite having progressed successfully through initial clinical testing. In that case, the EMA or the equivalent in jurisdictions outside of the EU may determine our data is not sufficiently compelling to warrant marketing approval and may require us to engage in additional clinical trials or provide further analysis which may be costly and time-consuming. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including us, have suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials, even in advanced clinical trials after showing positive results in earlier clinical trials.We rely on contract research organizations, or CROs, and other third parties to assist us in designing, managing, monitoring and otherwise carrying out our clinical trials, including with respect to site selection, contract negotiation and data management. We do not control these third parties and, as a result, they may not treat our clinical studies as a high priority, or in the manner in which we would prefer, which could result in delays. If third parties do not successfully carry out their duties under their agreements with us, if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements, or if they otherwise fail to comply with clinical trial protocols or meet expected deadlines, our clinical trials may not meet regulatory requirements. If our clinical trials do not meet regulatory requirements or if these third parties need to be replaced, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated. If any of these events occur, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval of defibrotide outside the EU or in additional indications or otherwise generate additional useful clinical data in support of defibrotide.We may be required to suspend or discontinue any current and future clinical trials due to adverse events or other safety issues that could negatively affect our anticipated revenues from and future growth of defibrotide.If we choose to, or are required to, conduct any future clinical trials for defibrotide, the trials may be suspended at any time for a number of safety-related reasons. For example, we may voluntarily suspend or terminate such clinical trials if, at any time, we believe that defibrotide presents an unacceptable risk to the clinical trial patients. In addition, Ethics Committees, institutional review boards or regulatory agencies may order the temporary or permanent discontinuation of a clinical trial at any time if they believe that the clinical trial is not being conducted in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements, including if it presents an unacceptable safety risk to patients. Administering any product candidate to humans may produce undesirable side effects. VOD is a condition associated with high dose chemotherapy and HSCT. Adverse events involving vascular disorders, coagulation and potentially life-threatening bleeding have been reported in VOD patients treated with defibrotide, which could potentially be related to treatment with defibrotide. Hypotension has been reported in patients participating in clinical trials of defibrotide to treat severe VOD, which may also be related to defibrotide. For example, we discontinued a 69-patient Phase I/II clinical trial of defibrotide to prevent deep vein thrombosis after hip surgery in Denmark in 2002, when three patients experienced hypotension after receiving defibrotide intravenously. It is possible that new adverse events or safety issues will emerge from future clinical trials and the data generated in those trials, which could impact conclusions relating to the safety of defibrotide. Any complications associated with the use of defibrotide would severely harm our anticipated revenue and potential future growth.If we fail to comply with the significant ongoing regulatory obligations and requirements, we could face increased costs and penalties. Our activities, and the activities of our collaborators and third-party providers, are subject to extensive government regulation and oversight by the EC, the competent authorities of the EU member states, the FDA and other regulatory agencies. These regulatory authorities directly regulate many of our most critical business activities, including the conduct of preclinical and clinical studies, product manufacturing, advertising and promotion, product distribution, adverse event reporting and product risk management. Failure by us or any of our third party partners, including suppliers, manufacturers and distributors, to comply with applicable requirements could subject us to administrative or judicial sanctions or other negative consequences, 13Table of Contentssuch as delays in approval or refusal to approve a product candidate, withdrawal, suspension or variation of product approval, untitled letters, warning letters, fines and other monetary penalties, unanticipated expenditures, product recall, withdrawal or seizure, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, interruption of manufacturing or clinical trials, operating restrictions, injunctions; suspension of licenses, civil penalties and/or criminal prosecution, any of which could have a significant impact on our sales, business and financial condition.If we receive regulatory approvals to sell our products, as we have in the EU for Defitelio for the treatment of severe hepatic VOD in adults and children undergoing HSCT therapy, the EC, the competent authorities of the EU member states, the FDA and other regulatory agencies in Europe or other countries where defibrotide may possibly be approved in the future may impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses or marketing of defibrotide, or impose requirements for burdensome post-approval study commitments. The terms of any product approval, including labeling, may be more restrictive than we desire and could affect the commercial potential of the product. If we become aware of problems with defibrotide, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions on the product, our contract manufacturers or on us. In such an instance, we could experience a significant drop in the sales of defibrotide, our product revenues and reputation in the marketplace may suffer, and we could become the target of lawsuits. Under regulations in the EU related to pharmacovigilance, or the assessment and monitoring of the safety of drugs, we may be required to conduct a labor intensive collection of data regarding the risks and benefits of defibrotide and may be required to engage in ongoing assessments of those risks and benefits, including the possible requirement to conduct additional clinical studies, which may be time consuming and expensive and could impact our profitability. Non-compliance with such obligations can lead to the imposition of financial penalties or other enforcement measures.The marketing authorization in the EU for Defitelio requires us to comply with a number of post-marketing obligations. These include obligations relating to the establishment of a patient registry. We may be unable to comply with the post-marketing obligations imposed as part of the marketing authorization for Defitelio. Failure to comply with these requirements may lead to the suspension, variation or withdrawal of the marketing authorization for Defitelio in the EU.Defitelio has been provided to patients in some EU countries on a named patient basis and, in certain of these countries, reimbursement is provided for unauthorized products provided through national named patient or compassionate use programs. Such reimbursement may no longer be available if authorization for named patient or compassionate use programs expire or are terminated. While we believe we have satisfied the regulations regarding our communications and medical affairs activities in those countries, if any such country’s regulatory authorities determine that we are promoting Defitelio without a marketing authorization in place, we could be found to be in violation of pharmaceutical advertising law or the regulations permitting sales under named patient programs. In that case, we may be subject to financial or other penalties.In the EU, the advertising and promotion of medicinal products are subject to EU member states’ laws governing promotion of medicinal products, interactions with physicians, misleading and comparative advertising and unfair commercial practices. In addition, other legislation adopted by individual EU member states may apply to the advertising and promotion of medicinal products. These laws require that promotional materials and advertising in relation to medicinal products comply with the product’s Summary of Product Characteristics, or SmPC, as approved by the competent authorities. The SmPC is the document that provides information to physicians concerning the safe and effective use of the medicinal product. It forms an intrinsic and integral part of the marketing authorization granted for the medicinal product. Promotion of a medicinal product that does not comply with the SmPC is considered to constitute off-label promotion. The off-label promotion of medicinal products is prohibited in the EU. The applicable laws at the EU level and in the individual EU member states also prohibit the direct-to-consumer advertising of prescription-only medicinal products. Violations of the rules governing the promotion of medicinal products in the EU could be penalized by administrative measures, fines and imprisonment. These laws may further limit or restrict the advertising and promotion of Defitelio to the general public and may also impose limitations on our promotional activities with health care professionals. The FDA, the competent authorities of the EU member states and other governmental authorities also actively enforce regulations prohibiting off-label promotion, and the government has levied large civil and criminal fines against companies for alleged improper promotion. The government has also required companies to enter into complex corporate integrity agreements and/or non-prosecution agreements that impose significant reporting and other burdens on the affected companies. Failure to maintain a comprehensive and effective compliance program could subject us to a range of regulatory actions that could affect our ability to commercialize Defitelio and could harm or prevent sales of Defitelio, or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing and marketing Defitelio.We are subject to strict laws, including anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, that regulate our relationship with physicians and our other business activities, and any violation of those laws can result in significant adverse consequences. Interactions between pharmaceutical companies and physicians are also governed by strict laws, regulations, industry self-regulation codes of conduct and physicians’ codes of professional conduct in the individual EU member states. The 14Table of Contentsprovision of benefits or advantages to physicians to induce or encourage the prescription, recommendation, endorsement, purchase, supply, order or use of medicinal products is prohibited in the EU. The provision of benefits or advantages to physicians is also governed by the national anti-bribery laws of the EU member states as described below. Payments made to physicians in certain EU member states must be publicly disclosed. Moreover, agreements with physicians must often be the subject of prior notification and approval by the physician’s employer, his/her competent professional organization, and/or the competent authorities of the individual EU member states. These requirements are provided in the national laws, industry codes, or professional codes of conduct applicable in the EU member states. Failure to comply with these requirements could result in reputational risk, public reprimands, administrative penalties, fines or imprisonment.Our business activities are also subject to the the Bribery Act 2010 of the United Kingdom, or UK Bribery Act, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, or FCPA, and similar anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws, regulations or rules of other countries in which we operate. The FCPA and similar anti-corruption laws generally prohibit the offering, promising, giving, or authorizing others to give anything of value, either directly or indirectly, to non-U.S. government officials in order to improperly influence any act or decision, secure any other improper advantage, or obtain or retain business. The FCPA also requires public companies to make and keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect the transactions of the company and to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls. The UK Bribery Act prohibits giving, offering, or promising bribes to any person, including non-UK government officials and private persons, as well as requesting, agreeing to receive, or accepting bribes from any person. In addition, under the UK Bribery Act, companies which carry on a business or part of a business in the UK may be held liable for bribes given, offered or promised to any person, including non-UK government officials and private persons, by employees and persons associated with the company in order to obtain or retain business or a business advantage for the company. Liability is strict, with no element of a corrupt state of mind, but a defense of having in place adequate procedures designed to prevent bribery is available. Furthermore, under the UK Bribery Act, there is no exception for facilitation payments. As described above, our business is heavily regulated and therefore involves significant interaction with public officials, particularly officials of non-U.S. governments. Additionally, in many other countries, the health care providers who prescribe pharmaceuticals are employed by their government, and the purchasers of pharmaceuticals are government entities; therefore, our dealings with these prescribers and purchasers may be subject to regulation under the FCPA and the UK Bribery Act. We are engaged in ongoing efforts that are designed to ensure our compliance with these laws. However, there is no certainty that all employees and third party business partners will comply with anti-bribery laws. In particular, we do not control the actions of manufacturers and other third party agents, although we may be liable for their actions. Violation of these laws may result in civil or criminal sanctions, which could include monetary fines, criminal penalties, and disgorgement of past profits, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition.Product liability and product recalls could harm our business.The development, manufacture, testing, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products are associated with significant risks of product liability claims or recalls. Side effects of, or manufacturing defects in, defibrotide could exacerbate a patient’s condition, or could result in serious injury or impairments or even death. This could result in product liability claims and/or recalls of defibrotide or the other APIs we manufacture. In many countries, including in EU member states, national laws provide for strict (no-fault) liability which applies even where damages are caused both by a defect in a product and by the act or omission of a third party.We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure in connection with human clinical trial testing of defibrotide and the distribution of defibrotide through our named patient and expanded access programs and commercially after launch in the EU. An individual may bring a product liability claim against us if defibrotide causes, or merely appears to have caused, an injury. Product liability claims may be brought by individuals seeking relief for themselves, or by groups seeking to represent a class of injured patients. Further, third party payors, either individually or as a putative class, may bring actions seeking to recover monies spent on one of products. While we have not had to defend against any product liability claims to date, as sales of defibrotide increase, we believe it is likely product liability claims will be made against us. The risk of product liability claims may also increase if a company receives a warning letter from a regulatory agency. We cannot predict the frequency, outcome or cost to defend any such claims.Product liability insurance coverage is expensive, can be difficult to obtain and may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. Our product liability insurance may not cover all of the future liabilities we might incur in connection with the development, manufacture or sale of our products. In addition, we may not continue to be able to obtain insurance on satisfactory terms or in adequate amounts.A successful claim or claims brought against us in excess of available insurance coverage could subject us to significant liabilities and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth 15Table of Contentsprospects. Such claims could also harm our reputation and the reputation of defibrotide, adversely affecting our ability to market defibrotide successfully. In addition, defending a product liability lawsuit is expensive and can divert the attention of key employees from operating our business.Product recalls may be issued at our discretion or at the discretion of our suppliers, government agencies and other entities that have regulatory authority for pharmaceutical sales. Any recall of defibrotide could materially adversely affect our business by rendering us unable to sell defibrotide for some time and by adversely affecting our reputation. A recall could also result in product liability claims by individuals and third party payors. In addition, product liability claims could result in an investigation of the safety or efficacy of defibrotide, our manufacturing processes and facilities, or our marketing programs conducted by the FDA, the EMA, or the competent authorities of the EU member states, which could lead to product liability lawsuits as well. The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or PCAOB, is unable to enforce its review of the audits conducted by our independent registered public accounting firm operating in Italy; therefore, investors may be or may have been deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Our independent registered public accounting firm, Reconta Ernst and Young S.p.A., or Reconta, issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the SEC. Reconta is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with SEC rules and PCAOB professional standards. While our audits are performed in accordance with the standards of PCAOB, our auditors are a registered public accounting firm in Italy, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable, under Italian law, to conduct inspection of our audits by Reconta. As a result, Reconta, like other independent registered public accounting firms in Italy, is currently not inspected by the PCAOB. Inspections of audit firms that the PCAOB has conducted have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. The lack of PCAOB inspections in Italy prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating our auditor’s audits and quality control procedures. As a result, the inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of auditors in Italy may deprive or may have deprived investors of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel and key relationships, our business could be seriously harmed. We are highly dependent on our senior management, whose services are critical to the successful implementation of research and development and manufacturing and regulatory strategies, and our ability to maintain relationships with key opinion leaders. If we lose one or more of the members of our senior management or other key opinion leaders, our business could be seriously harmed.Replacing key employees may be difficult and may take an extended period of time because of the limited number of individuals in our industry with the breadth of specific skills and experience required to further develop and commercialize defibrotide and to handle regulatory matters relating to defibrotide. Competition to hire from this limited pool is intense, and we may be unable to hire, train, retain or motivate additional key personnel, if needed. All of our defibrotide drug compound and most of our other API manufacturing capability is located in one facility that is vulnerable to natural disasters, telecommunication and information system failures, terrorism and similar problems, and we are not insured against losses that may be caused by any of these occurrences or events.We conduct all of our manufacturing operations for the defibrotide drug compound and two of our other APIs in a single facility located in Villa Guardia, near Como, Italy. This facility could be damaged by fire, flood, earthquake, power loss, telecommunication and information system failure, terrorism or similar events. Our insurance covers damages to the facility, including the buildings, machinery, electronic equipment and goods, of up to approximately €23 million, but does not cover damages caused by any of the events listed above, including terrorism and some types of flooding. Although we believe that our insurance coverage is adequate for our current and proposed operations, there can be no guarantee that it will adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur. We are not insured against business interruption and we do not have a replacement manufacturing facility readily available.Our ADSs have been delisted from NASDAQ. There is no public market for our ordinary shares and only a limited over-the-counter market for our ADSs. We will make no reports publicly available in the future about our financial position or results of operations. On March 5, 2014, we notified The NASDAQ Stock Market of our intention to voluntarily delist our ADSs from NASDAQ. We determined to withdraw our ADSs from listing because of the small number of ADSs that remained outstanding following the completion of the tender offer by Jazz and because delisting is a necessary step in the process of 16Table of Contentsterminating our obligations to file reports with the SEC. We have not and do not intend to arrange for the listing of the ADSs on another securities exchange or for any other quotation of the ADSs or our ordinary shares to be made available. Trading of our ADSs on NASDAQ was suspended on March 7, 2014, and there is currently no public market for our ordinary shares and only a limited over-the-counter market for our ADSs. Holders of our ADSs will have only limited price and trading information available and holders of our ordinary shares will have no price and trading information available in making investment decisions. The absence of an active public market will make it difficult for holders of our ADSs or ordinary shares to sell these securities and may adversely affect the value of these securities. In addition, as a result of the suspension and termination of our duty to file reports with the SEC, we will cease providing annual reports and current or periodic information, including information about our financial position or results of operations. The lack of publicly available reports with financial information and other information about us will make it more difficult for an investor to value our ADSs and ordinary shares, further complicating the possibility of a market being available for them.We have amended the deposit agreement with our ADS depositary governing our ADSs to reduce the period after which the ADS depositary may sell the remaining ordinary shares it holds and to provide for the ADS depositary to accept any offer by a subsidiary of Jazz to purchase those shares at a per share price of no less than $57.00. Holders of ADSs who wish to retain an ownership interest in us will need to surrender their ADSs and request delivery of ordinary shares before any sale occurs.Our ADS depositary gave notice to the holders of the ADSs on March 14, 2014 that the deposit agreement will terminate at 5:00 pm (Eastern time) on April 13, 2014, and of a proposed amendment to the deposit agreement governing the ADSs. The amendment is dated March 21, 2014, will be effective April 13, 2014, and will reduce from one year to 60 days the period that must elapse between the date of termination of the deposit agreement and the date on which the ADS depositary may sell the ordinary shares of the Company held by it. The amendment also provides for the ADS depositary to accept any offer by a subsidiary of Jazz to purchase those shares at a price of no less than $57.00 per ordinary share, unless the ADS depositary has received what it considers to be a superior bona fide offer from another party. The deposit agreement contemplates that ordinary shares held after termination of the deposit agreement are to be sold and the proceeds made available to the holders of the ADSs upon surrender of their ADSs. While the date or dates on which the ADS depositary will sell the remaining ordinary shares has not been determined, it will not occur before June 13, 2014. Jazz Italy has indicated that it intends to offer to purchase ordinary shares from the ADS depositary at a per share price equal to $57.00. Affirmative action on the part of the holders of ADSs will be necessary if they are to retain an ownership interest in shares, including compliance with any Italian requirements for holding our ordinary shares directly.Jazz controls our company and the outcome of all shareholder actions of our company.Approximately 98% of our ordinary shares are owned by Jazz Italy, which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Jazz. This means that Jazz has the voting power to elect our entire board of directors and to control all actions that require shareholder approval under Italian law and our articles of association and bylaws, including the election of our board of directors, significant mergers and acquisitions and other business combinations, and changes to our articles of association. As a result, Jazz has effective control over our company, our management and our operations, including control over our decisions to enter into any corporate transaction and the ability to prevent any transaction that requires shareholder approval regardless of whether our minority shareholders believe that the transaction is in our best interests. Although our minority shareholders will continue to be entitled to exercise limited rights as shareholders provided to them under the Italian Civil Code, Jazz could cause corporate or other actions to be taken even if the interests of Jazz conflict with the interests of our other shareholders. In addition, three of our five directors are employed by Jazz, which means that we do not have a board of directors making business decisions on our behalf independent from Jazz. Jazz’s voting control may cause transactions to occur that might not be beneficial to the holders of our ordinary shares, and may prevent transactions that would be beneficial to those holders. Our business relationships may be subject to disruptions due to uncertainty associated with the acquisition of control of our company by Jazz.Parties with which we currently do business or may do business in the future, including our suppliers and customers, may experience uncertainty associated with the acquisition of control of our company by Jazz, including with respect to current or future business relationships with Jazz or us. As a result, our business relationships may be subject to disruptions if customers, suppliers and others attempt to negotiate changes in existing business relationships or consider entering into business relationships with parties other than Jazz or us. In addition, our success will depend, in part, upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel and key relationships, especially during Jazz’s integration efforts. Our current and prospective employees of might experience uncertainty about their future roles with us now that Jazz controls our company, which might adversely affect our ability to retain qualified personnel and key relationships. These disruptions could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. 17Table of ContentsDue to the differences between Italian and U.S. law, our ordinary shareholders may have fewer shareholder rights than they would have as a shareholder of a U.S. company. We are incorporated under the laws of the Republic of Italy. As a result, the rights and obligations of our ordinary shareholders are governed by Italian law and our bylaws, and are in some ways different from those that apply to U.S. corporations. Some of these differences may result in our shareholders having fewer shareholder rights than they would have as a shareholder of a U.S. corporation. We have presented a detailed comparison of the Italian laws applicable to our company versus Delaware law in Part I, Item 10 of this annual report in the section entitled “Differences in Corporate Law.” We compare the Italian laws applicable to our company against Delaware law because Delaware is the most common state of incorporation for U.S. public companies.Italian labor laws could impair our flexibility to restructure our business. In Italy, our employees are protected by various laws which afford them consultation rights with respect to specific matters regarding their employers’ business and operations, including the downsizing or closure of facilities and employee terminations. In particular: (i) Law no. 604/1966 regulates the individual dismissals; (ii) Law no. 223/1991 concerns the collective dismissal procedure; (iii) Law no. 428/1990, as amended by legislative decree no. 18/2001, provides for an information and consultation procedure in case of a transfer of the undertaking or a part thereof; and (iv) Legislative decree no. 25/2007 introduces a general right to information and consultation for employees. These laws and the collective bargaining agreements to which we are subject could impair our flexibility if we need to restructure our business.