ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMPANY AND OUR BUSINESS We have a history of losses and expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. With the exception of fiscal 2010, we have incurred operating losses since our inception in 2000, and our fiscal 2010 net income resulted from a one-time event. We do not currently have any assured sources of revenues. We do not know the timing and extent of any revenues we may receive from ILUVIEN for DME. Although ILUVIEN has been approved in five EU countries for the treatment of vision impairment associated with chronic DME considered insufficiently responsive to available therapies, we do not know when Alimera will receive marketing authorization in two remaining EU countries or complete pricing and reimbursement discussions, whether those pricing and reimbursement discussions will be satisfactory, whether Alimera will be successful in directly commercializing ILUVIEN for DME, and if and when, and to what extent, we will earn revenues from the commercialization of ILUVIEN for DME in the EU. Unless and until Alimera receives FDA approval of ILUVIEN for DME, we will not be entitled to receive the $25.0 million milestone payment that would be due on such an approval, nor will we earn any revenues from sales of ILUVIEN for DME by Alimera in the U.S. We will receive funding under our Restated Pfizer Agreement only if Pfizer exercises its option with respect to the Latanoprost Product, which becomes exercisable only if we complete Phase II clinical trials, which have yet not been initiated, or if we cease development of the Latanoprost Product prior to completion of those trials. There is no assurance that Pfizer will exercise its option. Our royalty income from Bausch & Lomb is not expected to increase to a level sufficient to sustain our operations and may decline. Our ability to achieve profitability will depend upon Alimera’s ability to commercialize ILUVIEN for DME and our or any other licensees’ ability to achieve regulatory approval and sufficient revenues from commercialization of one or more of our product candidates. We expect to need additional capital resources to fund our operations, and our ability to obtain them is uncertain. We expect to continue to generate negative cash flows from operations unless and until ILUVIEN for DME achieves sufficient revenues from commercialization or one or more of our product candidates achieves regulatory approval and sufficient revenues from commercialization. During the past three fiscal years, we have financed our operations primarily from consideration received from our collaborative partners, including license fees, research and development funding and contingent note payments, and from the proceeds of offerings of our common stock and warrants. We currently have no committed funding from collaborative partners. We believe that our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of $14.6 million at June 30, 2012 together with the $4.7 million net proceeds of an August 2012 offering of common stock and warrants and expected royalty income from Bausch & Lomb should enable us to maintain our current and planned operations through calendar year 2013. Our capital resources would be enhanced if Alimera successfully commercializes ILUVIEN for DME in the EU and if ILUVIEN for DME were approved and successfully commercialized in the U.S., although even so, the amount and timing of our receipt of any revenues from such activities is uncertain. Accordingly, we expect to need additional resources to complete our planned Phase III trials for our posterior uveitis micro-insert and to fund our operations. Our need for additional capital resources will be influenced by the following factors, among others: • whether, when and to what extent we receive revenues from Alimera with respect to ILUVIEN for DME, including from commercialization in the EU or upon any approval or commercialization in the U.S.; • whether and when we are able to enter into strategic arrangements for our product candidates and the nature of those arrangements; • whether and the extent to which we internally fund, when we initiate, and how we conduct product development and programs, including clinical trials for the posterior uveitis micro-insert and the Latanoprost Product and ongoing research and development of BioSilicon technology applications; • whether and when Pfizer exercises its option with respect to the Latanoprost Product; 17 Table of Contents • timely and successful development, regulatory approval and commercialization of our products and product candidates; • the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining, defending and enforcing any patent claims; and • changes in our operating plan, resulting in increases or decreases in our need for capital. We may seek additional capital resources through possible new collaborative or licensing agreements and/or possible other agreements and transactions (which may include sales of assets or securities). Many factors relating to our company, such as the 2011 CRL and the status of FDA approval with respect to ILUVIEN for DME, the status of commercialization of ILUVIEN for DME in the EU, and the status of development of our product candidates, as well as the state of the economy and the financial and credit markets, may make our ability to secure additional capital resources more difficult to obtain or result in less favorable terms. If available, funding through collaboration, licensing or other agreements may be on unfavorable terms, including requiring us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies or products, additional equity financing may be dilutive to stockholders, and debt financing may involve restrictive covenants or other unfavorable terms and potential dilutive equity. If adequate financing is not available if and when needed, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate research or development programs, postpone or cancel the pursuit of product candidates, including pre-clinical and clinical trials and new business opportunities, reduce staff and operating costs or otherwise significantly curtail our operations to reduce our cash requirements and extend our capital. If the recorded value of our intangible assets under GAAP is further impaired, our financial results could be adversely affected, which could adversely affect the price of our securities. We recorded significant amounts of intangible assets in connection with earlier acquisitions. We took impairment charges of $3.1 million with respect to the value of our Durasert intangible asset and $11.7 million with respect to the value of our BioSilicon intangible asset as of December 31, 2011. We have $4.2 million of intangible assets on our balance sheet as of June 30, 2012, of which $2.9 million relates to our Durasert technology and $1.3 million relates to our BioSilicon technology. We will continue to conduct impairment analyses of our intangible assets as required, and we would be required to take additional impairment charges in the future if any recoverability assessments of those assets reflect fair market values which are less than our recorded values, and such charges could be significant. The carrying values of our Durasert and BioSilicon technology systems could be impaired if there is a future triggering event, including, without limitation, adverse events with respect to the timing and status of clinical development, regulatory approval and success of commercialization of products using those technologies, and significant changes in our market capitalization. Further impairment charges on our intangible assets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, which could, in turn, adversely affect the price of our securities. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly from period to period. Our operating results have fluctuated significantly from period to period in the past and may continue to do so in the future due to many factors, including: • timing, receipt, amount and revenue recognition of payments, if any, from collaboration partners, including, without limitation, collaborative research and development, milestone, royalty, net profit and other payments; • execution, amendment and termination of collaboration agreements; • scope, duration and success of collaboration agreements; • amount of internally funded research and development costs, including pre-clinical studies and clinical trials; 18 Table of Contents • general and industry-specific adverse economic conditions that may affect, among other things, our and our collaborators’ operations and financial results; and • changes in accounting estimates, policies or principles and intangible asset impairments. Due to fluctuations in our operating results, quarterly comparisons of our financial results may not necessarily be meaningful, and investors should not rely upon such results as an indication of future performance. In addition, investors may react adversely if our reported operating results are less favorable than in a prior period or are less favorable than those anticipated by investors in the financial community, which may result in further decreases in our stock price. Our royalty income from Bausch & Lomb may decline. Our royalties from Bausch & Lomb for Retisert and Vitrasert may decline. There is no assurance that Bausch & Lomb will continue to market either or both of these products. We do not expect that our royalty income from Bausch & Lomb for these products will ever become a material source of revenue for us. RISKS RELATED TO THE DEVELOPMENT AND COMMERCIALIZATION OF OUR PRODUCTS AND PRODUCT CANDIDATES Without FDA regulatory approval for ILUVIEN for DME, Alimera will be unable to commercialize the product in the U.S. and we will not receive payments to which we would be entitled upon such approval and from successful commercialization, which could materially impair our financial prospects. Alimera received a 2010 CRL from the FDA with respect to its NDA for ILUVIEN for DME, which included 24 month data from the FAME Study, and received the 2011 CRL in response to the resubmitted NDA, which responded to the 2010 CRL and included 36 month data. In the 2011 CRL, the FDA stated that it was unable to approve the NDA because it did not provide sufficient data to support that ILUVIEN is safe and effective in the treatment of patients with DME, that the risks of adverse reactions shown for ILUVIEN in the FAME Study were significant and were not offset by the benefits demonstrated by ILUVIEN in these clinical trials and that Alimera will need to conduct two additional clinical trials to demonstrate that the product is safe and effective for the proposed indication. Based on a recent meeting with the FDA, Alimera has indicated its intention to resubmit its NDA for ILUVIEN for DME to the FDA in early 2013 using data from the FAME Study and to focus on the population of patients with chronic DME considered insufficiently responsive to available therapies, the same indication for which regulatory approval has been granted in various EU countries. There is no assurance when or if Alimera will resubmit its application or that Alimera will be able to demonstrate to the FDA that the benefits outweigh the risks of ILUVIEN for DME using data from the FAME Study, that additional clinical trials will not be required, that the population of chronic DME patients will be acceptable to the FDA or that Alimera will be able to obtain regulatory approval for ILUVIEN for DME in the U.S. Accordingly, ILUVIEN for DME may never be approved and marketed in the U.S., in which case we would not receive the milestone payment to which we would be entitled on FDA approval, or any revenues from commercialization, which would be materially adverse to our business. Further, we do not know whether Alimera will continue to seek to develop, or receive approval from the FDA or other regulatory agencies for, ILUVIEN for the treatment of other eye conditions currently being studied under Alimera’s agreement with us. We do not know if and when we will receive revenues from any commercialization of ILUVIEN for DME in the EU and the extent of those revenues. There is no assurance if and when, and to what extent, we will receive revenues from the commercialization of ILUVIEN for DME in the EU. To date, Alimera has received marketing authorization from Austria, France, Germany, Portugal and the U.K., but still must obtain separate national licenses in Italy and Spain, and there is no assurance that Alimera will receive those licenses, what the terms of the licenses will be and whether their issuances will be delayed beyond Alimera’s expectations, which could delay Alimera’s commercialization of 19 Table of Contents ILUVIEN for DME in Italy and Spain. There is no assurance as to what level of governmental pricing and reimbursement will be permitted, particularly in light of the ongoing budget crises faced by a number of countries in the EU. NICE, for example, has issued draft guidance that ILUVIEN is not recommended for the treatment of chronic DME in the U.K. Prices of drugs in the EU are regulated and are generally lower than those in the United States, which could affect the amount of any revenues from the commercialization of ILUVIEN for DME in the EU. Alimera has announced its intention to proceed with the direct commercialization of ILUVIEN in Germany, the U.K. and France in 2013 and also announced that it has arranged $40 million in equity financing, subject to satisfaction of certain closing conditions, to provide capital to launch ILUVIEN in the EU. There is no assurance that Alimera will consummate that financing. Alimera has no prior experience in commercializing products. There is no assurance that Alimera will be able to build and manage a successful commercial operation in the EU or that it will have sufficient capital to do so. Further, because we are entitled to net profit participation on sales of ILUVIEN if Alimera markets ILUVIEN directly and a percentage of royalties and non-royalty consideration if Alimera sublicenses the marketing of ILUVIEN, the amount and timing of any revenues we receive will be affected by the manner in which Alimera determines to market ILUVIEN in other countries. Although Alimera has reported that it intends to seek marketing approval of ILUVIEN for DME in additional EU countries, there is no assurance that Alimera will apply for or obtain any additional approvals. Further, we cannot project what the demand will be for ILUVIEN for DME if marketed in the EU. Both ILUVIEN and our micro-insert for posterior uveitis deliver FAc, a corticosteroid that has demonstrated undesirable side effects in the eye, which may affect the approvability and success of these micro-inserts for DME, posterior uveitis and other eye diseases. Both ILUVIEN and our micro-insert for posterior uveitis of the same design deliver the non-proprietary corticosteroid FAc, which is associated with undesirable side effects in the eye, such as cataract formation and elevated intraocular pressure, which may increase the risk of glaucoma and related surgery to manage those side effects. In the 2011 CRL, the FDA stated that the risks of adverse reactions shown for ILUVIEN for DME in the FAME Study were significant and were not offset by the benefits demonstrated by ILUVIEN for DME in those clinical trials. To date, Austria, France, Germany, Portugal and the U.K. have granted marketing authorization to ILUVIEN for the treatment of vision impairment associated with chronic DME considered insufficiently responsive to available therapies, but there is no assurance that ILUVIEN for DME will receive marketing authorization from the Italian and Spanish or any other regulators. These side effects may affect the approvability of ILUVIEN for the other eye conditions for which it is being studied, and even if approved, these side effects may adversely affect the successful marketing of ILUVIEN. Although our approved Retisert product for posterior uveitis and our product candidate for the same condition both deliver FAc, there is no assurance that our micro-insert of the same design as ILUVIEN for the treatment of posterior uveitis will be able to demonstrate that it is safe and efficacious for the treatment of posterior uveitis in light of its expected side effects from FAc. There is no assurance that Pfizer will exercise its option with respect to the Latanoprost Product or that we will receive any further financial consideration under the Restated Pfizer Agreement. In June 2011, we amended our Collaborative Research and License Agreement with Pfizer to focus solely on the development of the Latanoprost Product. Development of this product through Phase II clinical trials is at our own expense. Pfizer has an option for an exclusive, worldwide license to develop and commercialize the Latanoprost Product upon our completion of Phase II clinical trials or if we cease development of the Latanoprost Product prior to completion of those trials. There is no assurance that we will commence or complete the Phase II clinical trials for the Latanoprost Product, that if completed, the trials will be successful, that Pfizer will, in any event, exercise its option or that if exercised, that Pfizer will commence Phase III clinical trials or that the Latanoprost Product will achieve successful Phase III trial results, regulatory approvals or commercial success. As a result, there is no assurance that we will receive any further licensing, milestone or royalty payments under the Restated Pfizer Agreement. 20 Table of Contents If we or our licensees are unable to or do not complete clinical trials for our product candidates or do not receive the necessary regulatory approvals, we or our licensees will be unable to commercialize our product candidates. Our current and future activities are and will be subject to stringent regulation by governmental authorities both in the U.S. and other countries in which our products are marketed. Before we or our licensees can manufacture, market and sell any of our product candidates, approval from the FDA and/or foreign regulatory authorities is required to market in the applicable jurisdictions. Generally, in order to obtain these approvals, pre-clinical studies and clinical trials must demonstrate that a product candidate is safe for human use and effective for its targeted disease or condition. Other than ILUVIEN for DME, none of our product candidates has completed or is in pivotal clinical trials. An investigator-sponsored Phase I/II study of the Latanoprost Product is ongoing, but we have not commenced Phase II clinical trials; the FDA has cleared our IND to treat posterior uveitis with our injectable sustained-release micro-insert and we are now permitted to move directly to two Phase III trials to treat patients with posterior uveitis, but we have not commenced pivotal trials; and we have no ongoing pre-clinical or clinical studies with respect to BioSilicon product candidates. Product development at all stages involves a high degree of risk, and only a small proportion of research and development programs result in product candidates that advance to pivotal clinical trials or to approved products. There is no assurance that evaluation agreements we have with third parties will result in any product candidates or licenses, or that we or our licensees will commence or continue clinical trials for any of our product candidates. If clinical trials conducted by or for us or our licensees for any of our product candidates do not provide the necessary evidence of safety and efficacy, those product candidates cannot be manufactured and sold, and will not generate revenues. Initial or subsequent clinical trials may not be initiated by or for us or our licensees for product candidates or may be delayed or fail due to many factors, including the following: • decisions by parties evaluating our technologies not to pursue development of products with us; • our (or our licensees’) lack of sufficient funding to pursue trials rapidly or at all; • our (or our licensees’) inability to attract clinical investigators for trials; • our (or our licensees’) inability to recruit patients in sufficient numbers or at the expected rate; • our inability to find or reach agreement with licensees to undertake clinical trials; • decisions by licensees not to exercise options for products and not to pursue products licensed to them; • adverse side effects; • failure of trials to demonstrate a product candidate’s safety and efficacy; • our (or our licensees’) failure to meet FDA or other regulatory agency requirements for clinical trial design or inadequate clinical trial design; • our (or our licensees’) inability to follow patients adequately after treatment; • changes in the design or manufacture of a product; • failures by, changes in our (or our licensees’) relationship with, or other issues at contract research organizations, third-party vendors and investigators responsible for pre-clinical testing and clinical trials; • our (or our licensees’) inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of materials for use in clinical trials; • stability issues with materials; • failure to comply with current good manufacturing practices (“cGMP”) or similar foreign regulatory requirements or other manufacturing issues; 21 Table of Contents • requests by regulatory authorities for additional data or clinical trials; • governmental or regulatory agency assessments of pre-clinical or clinical testing that differs from our (or our licensees’) interpretations or conclusions that product candidates meet quality standards for stability, quality, purity and potency; • governmental or regulatory delays, or changes in approval policies or regulations; and • developments, clinical trial results and other factors with respect to competitive products and treatments. Results from pre-clinical testing and early clinical trials often do not accurately predict results of later clinical trials. Data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical activities are susceptible to varying interpretations, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Data from pre-clinical studies, early clinical trials and interim periods in multi-year trials are preliminary and may change, and final data from pivotal trials for such products may differ significantly. Adverse side effects may develop that delay, limit or prevent the regulatory approval of products, or cause such regulatory approvals to be limited or even rescinded. Additional trials necessary for approval may not be undertaken or may ultimately fail to establish the safety and efficacy of our product candidates. The FDA or other relevant regulatory agencies may not approve our product candidates for manufacture and sale, and any approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by other regulatory agencies or vice versa (which could require us to comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements, possibly including additional clinical testing). Any product approvals we or our licensees achieve could also be withdrawn for failure to comply with regulatory standards or due to unforeseen problems after the products’ marketing approval. In either case, marketing efforts with respect to the affected product would have to cease. In addition, the FDA or other regulatory agencies may impose limitations on the indicated uses for which a product may be marketed, which may reduce the size of or otherwise limit the potential market for the product. In addition to testing, regulatory agencies impose various requirements on manufacturers and sellers of products under their jurisdiction, such as packaging, labeling, manufacturing practices, record keeping and reporting. Regulatory agencies may also require post-marketing testing and surveillance programs to monitor a product’s effects. Furthermore, changes in existing regulations or the adoption of new regulations could prevent us from obtaining, or affect the timing of, future regulatory approvals. We have a limited ability to develop and market products ourselves. If we are unable to find development or marketing partners, or our development or marketing partners do not successfully develop or market our products, we may be unable to effectively develop and market products on our own. We have limited product development capability and no marketing or sales staff. Developing products and achieving market acceptance for them can require extensive and substantial efforts by experienced personnel as well as expenditure of significant funds. We may not be able to establish sufficient capabilities necessary to develop products and achieve market penetration ourselves. Our business strategy includes entering into collaborative and licensing arrangements for the development and commercialization of our product candidates, and we currently have collaboration and licensing arrangements with Alimera, Pfizer and Bausch & Lomb. The curtailment or termination of any of these arrangements could adversely affect our business, our ability to develop and commercialize our products, product candidates and proposed products and our ability to fund operations. The success of these and future collaborative and licensing arrangements will depend heavily on the experience, resources, efforts and activities of our licensees. Our licensees have, and are expected to have, significant discretion in making decisions related to the development of product candidates and the 22 Table of Contents commercialization of products under these collaboration agreements. Risks that we face in connection with our collaboration and licensing strategy include the following: • our collaborative and licensing arrangements are, and are expected to be, subject to termination under various circumstances, including on short notice and without cause; • we are required, and expect to be required, under our collaborative and licensing arrangements not to conduct specified types of research and development in the field that is the subject of the arrangement or not to sell products in such field, limiting the areas of research, development and commercialization that we can pursue; • our licensees may be permitted to develop and commercialize, either alone or with others, products that are similar to or competitive with our products; • our licensees may change the focus of their development and commercialization efforts or decrease or fail to increase spending related to our products or product candidates, thereby limiting the ability of these products to reach their potential; • our licensees may lack the funding, personnel or experience to develop and commercialize our products successfully or may otherwise fail to do so; and • our licensees may not perform their obligations, in whole or in part. To the extent that we choose not to, or we are unable to, enter into future license agreements with marketing and sales partners and, alternatively, seek to market and sell products ourselves, we would experience increased capital requirements to develop the ability to manufacture, market and sell future products. We may not be able to manufacture, market or sell our products or future products independently in the absence of such agreements. Our current licensees may terminate their agreements with us at any time, and if they do, we will lose the benefits of those agreements and may not be able to develop and sell products currently licensed to them. Our licensees have rights of termination under our agreements with them. Exercise of termination rights by one or more of our licensees may leave us without the financial benefits and development, marketing or sales resources provided under the terminated agreement, which may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, our interests may not continue to coincide with those of our partners, and our partners may develop, independently or with third parties, products or technologies that could compete with our products. Further, we may disagree with our partners over the rights and obligations under those agreements, including ownership of technologies or other proprietary interests, noncompetition, payments or other issues, which could result in breach of the agreements including related damages or injunctive relief or termination. Pfizer may terminate the Restated Pfizer Agreement with respect to the Latanoprost Product without penalty at any time and for any reason upon 60 days’ written notice. We have exclusively licensed our technology underlying Vitrasert and Retisert to Bausch & Lomb, which can terminate its agreement with us without penalty at any time upon 90 days’ written notice. We have exclusively licensed the technology underlying ILUVIEN for DME and certain ophthalmic applications to Alimera. Alimera has financial responsibility for the development of ILUVIEN and any other licensed products developed under our collaboration agreement, along with sole responsibility for the commercialization of such licensed products. Alimera may abandon the development and commercialization of any licensed product at any time. Any of Pfizer, Alimera or Bausch & Lomb may decide not to continue to develop, exercise options or commercialize products under their respective agreements, change strategic focus, or pursue alternative technologies instead of our technologies or develop competing products. While Pfizer and Bausch & Lomb have significant experience in the ophthalmic field and have substantial resources, there is no assurance whether, and to what extent, that experience and those resources will be devoted to our technologies. Alimera has limited 23 Table of Contents experience and limited financial resources, and ILUVIEN for DME is Alimera’s first commercial product. Because we do not currently have sufficient funding or internal capabilities to develop and commercialize our products and product candidates, decisions, actions, breach or termination of these agreements by Pfizer, Bausch & Lomb or Alimera could delay or stop the development or commercialization of any of the products or product candidates licensed to such entities. If products of our competitors receive regulatory approval or reach the market earlier, are more effective, have fewer side effects, are more effectively marketed or cost less, our products or product candidates may not be approved, may not achieve the sales we anticipate and could be rendered obsolete. We believe that pharmaceutical, drug delivery and biotechnology companies, research organizations, governmental entities, universities, hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and individual scientists are seeking to develop drugs, therapies, products, approaches or methods to treat our targeted diseases or their underlying causes. For many of our targeted diseases, competitors have alternate therapies that are already commercialized or are in various stages of development ranging from discovery to advanced clinical trials. For example, Lucentis has been approved to treat patients with DME in the U.S. and EU, and Bayer HealthCare and Regeneron have instituted Phase III studies of EYLEA, already approved in the U.S. and Australia to treat wet AMD, to treat DME. Any of these drugs, therapies, products, approaches or methods may receive government approval or gain market acceptance more rapidly than our products and product candidates, may offer therapeutic or cost advantages, or may more effectively treat our targeted diseases or their underlying causes, which could result in our product candidates not being approved, reduce demand for our products and product candidates or render them noncompetitive or obsolete. For example, sales of Vitrasert for the treatment of CMV retinitis, a disease that affects people with late-stage AIDS, declined significantly with advances in the treatment of AIDS. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technological, research and development, marketing and personnel resources than we do. Our competitors may succeed in developing alternate technologies and products that, in comparison to the products we have and are seeking to develop: • are more effective and easier to use; • are more economical; • have fewer side effects; • offer other benefits; or • may otherwise render our products less competitive or obsolete. Many of these competitors have greater experience in developing products, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals or clearances and manufacturing and marketing products. Our products and product candidates may not achieve and maintain market acceptance and may never generate significant revenues. In both domestic and foreign markets, the commercial success of our products and product candidates will require not only obtaining regulatory approvals but also obtaining market acceptance by retinal specialists and other doctors, patients, government health administration authorities and other third-party payors. Whether and to what extent our products and product candidates achieve and maintain market acceptance will depend on a number of factors, including demonstrated safety and efficacy, cost-effectiveness, potential advantages over other therapies, our and our collaborative partners’ marketing and distribution efforts and the reimbursement policies of government and other third-party payors. In particular, if government and other third-party payors do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for or recommend our products and product candidates, the market acceptance of our products and product candidates will be limited. Both government and other third-party payors attempt to contain healthcare costs by limiting coverage and the level of reimbursement for products 24 Table of Contents and, accordingly, they might challenge the price and cost-effectiveness of our products, or refuse to provide coverage for our products. If our products and product candidates fail to achieve and maintain market acceptance, they may fail to generate significant revenues and our business may be significantly harmed. Guidelines, recommendations and studies published by various organizations could reduce the use of our products and product candidates. Government agencies, professional societies, practice management groups, private health and science foundations and organizations focused on various diseases may publish guidelines, recommendations or studies related to our products and product candidates or our competitors’ products. Any such guidelines, recommendations or studies that reflect negatively on our products or product candidates could result in decreased use, sales of, and revenues from one or more of our products and product candidates. Furthermore, our success depends in part on our and our partners’ ability to educate healthcare providers and patients about our products and product candidates, and these education efforts could be rendered ineffective by, among other things, third-parties’ guidelines, recommendations or studies. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY We rely heavily upon patents and trade secrets to protect our proprietary technologies. If we fail to protect our intellectual property or infringe on others’ technologies, our ability to develop and market our products and product candidates may be compromised. Our success is dependent on whether we can obtain patents, defend our existing patents and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties. As of August 31, 2012, we had 199 patents and 136 pending patent applications, including patents and pending applications covering our Durasert, Tethadur, BioSilicon and CODRUG technologies. Intellectual property protection of our technologies is uncertain. We expect to seek to patent and protect our proprietary technologies. However, there is no assurance that any additional patents will be issued to us as a result of our pending or future patent applications or that any of our patents will withstand challenges by others. In addition, we may not have sufficient funds to patent and protect our proprietary technologies to the extent that we would desire, or at all. If we were determined to be infringing any third party patent, we could be required to pay damages, alter our products or processes, obtain licenses, pay royalties or cease certain operations. We may not be able to obtain any required licenses on commercially favorable terms, if at all. In addition, many foreign country laws may treat the protection of proprietary rights differently from, and may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as, laws in the United States and Patent Co-operation Treaty countries. Prior art may reduce the scope or protection of, or invalidate, our patents. Previously conducted research or published discoveries may prevent our patents from being granted, invalidate issued patents or narrow the scope of any protection obtained. Reduction in scope of protection or invalidation of our licensed or owned patents, or our inability to obtain patents, may enable other companies to develop products that compete with our products and product candidates on the basis of the same or similar technology. As a result, our patents and those of our licensors may not provide any or sufficient protection against competitors. While we have not been, and are not currently involved in, any litigation over intellectual property, such litigation may be necessary to enforce any patents issued or licensed to us or to determine the scope and validity of third party proprietary rights. We may also be sued by one or more third parties alleging that we infringe their intellectual property rights. Any intellectual property litigation would be likely to result in substantial costs to us and diversion of our efforts, and could prevent or delay our discovery or development of product candidates. If our competitors claim technology also claimed by us, and if they prepare and file patent applications in the U.S. or other jurisdictions, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or the appropriate foreign patent office to determine priority of invention, which could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our efforts. Any such litigation or interference proceedings, regardless of the outcome, could be expensive and time consuming. Litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, requiring disputed rights to be licensed from third parties and/or requiring us to cease using certain technologies. 25 Table of Contents We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and technology that are not protected by patents to maintain our competitive position. We try to protect this information by entering into confidentiality agreements with parties that have access to it, such as our corporate partners, collaborators, employees, and consultants. Any of these parties could breach these agreements and disclose our confidential information, or our competitors may learn of the information in some other way. If any material trade secret, know-how or other technology not protected by a patent were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor, our competitive position could be materially harmed. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS, INDUSTRY, STRATEGY AND OPERATIONS If we fail to retain key personnel, our business could suffer. We are dependent upon the principal members of our management and scientific staff. In addition, we believe that our future success in developing our products and achieving a competitive position may depend on whether we can attract and retain additional qualified management and scientific personnel. There is strong competition for management and scientific personnel within the industry in which we operate and we may not be able to attract and retain such personnel. As we have a small number of employees and we believe our products are unique and highly specialized, the loss of the services of one or more of the principal members of our senior management or scientific staff, or the inability to attract and retain additional personnel and develop expertise as needed, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we are subject to product liability suits, we may not have sufficient insurance to cover damages. The testing, manufacturing, and marketing and sale of the products utilizing our technologies involve risks that product liability claims may be asserted against us and/or our licensees. Our current clinical trial and product liability insurance may not be adequate to cover damages resulting from product liability claims. Regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims could require us to spend significant time, money and other resources to defend such claims, could result in decreased demand for our products and product candidates or result in reputational harm, and could result in the payment of a significant damage award. Our product liability insurance coverage is subject to deductibles and coverage limitations and may not be adequate in scope to protect us in the event of a successful product liability claim. Further, we may not be able to acquire sufficient clinical trial or product liability insurance in the future on reasonable commercial terms, if at all. Consolidation in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries may adversely affect us. There has been consolidation in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. Consolidation could result in the remaining companies having greater financial resources and technological capabilities, thus intensifying competition, and fewer potential collaboration partners or licensees for our product candidates. In addition, if a consolidating company is already doing business with our competitors, we could lose existing or potential future licensees or collaboration partners as a result of such consolidation. If we or our licensees fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations, our or their ability to manufacture and commercialize products may be adversely affected. Medical and biopharmaceutical research and development involves the controlled use of hazardous materials, such as radioactive compounds and chemical solvents. We and our licensees are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations in the U.S. and abroad governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of such materials and waste products. We and they could be subject to both criminal liability and civil damages in the event of an improper or unauthorized release of, or exposure of individuals to, hazardous materials. In addition, claimants may sue us or them for resulting injury or contamination, and the liability may exceed our or their ability to pay. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations is expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair the research, development or production efforts of our company or our licensees and harm our operating results. 26 Table of Contents If we or our licensees encounter problems with product manufacturing, there could be delays in product development or commercialization, which would adversely affect our future profitability. Our ability and that of our licensees to conduct timely pre-clinical and clinical research and development programs, obtain regulatory approvals, and develop and commercialize our product candidates will depend, in part, upon our and our licensees’ ability to manufacture our products and product candidates, either directly or through third parties, in accordance with FDA and other regulatory requirements. The manufacture, packaging and testing of our products and product candidates are regulated by the FDA and similar foreign regulatory entities and must be conducted in accordance with applicable cGMP and comparable foreign requirements. Any change in a manufacturing process or procedure used for one of our products or product candidates, including a change in the location at which a product or product candidate is being manufactured or in the third-party manufacturer being used, may require the FDA’s and similar foreign regulatory entities’ prior review and/or approval in accordance with applicable cGMP or other regulations. Additionally, the FDA and similar foreign regulatory entities may implement new standards, or change their interpretation and enforcement of existing standards, for the manufacture, packaging and testing of products at any time. There are a limited number of manufacturers that operate under cGMP and other foreign regulations that are both capable of manufacturing our products and product candidates and are willing to do so. Alimera has contracted with third-party manufacturers with respect to the manufacture of components of ILUVIEN. Failure by us, our collaborative partners, or our or their third-party manufacturers, to comply with applicable manufacturing requirements could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our product candidates, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of product, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions. In addition, we or our collaborative partners may not be able to manufacture our product candidates successfully or have a third party manufacture them in a cost-effective manner. If we or our collaborative partners are unable to develop our own manufacturing facilities or to obtain or retain third-party manufacturing on acceptable terms, we may not be able to conduct certain future pre-clinical and clinical testing or to supply commercial quantities of our products. We manufacture supplies in connection with pre-clinical or clinical studies conducted by us or our collaboration partners. Under our collaboration agreements with Alimera, Pfizer and Bausch & Lomb, we have provided our licensees the exclusive rights to manufacture commercial quantities of products, once approved for marketing. Our and our licensees’ reliance on third-party manufacturers entails risks, including: • failure of third parties to comply with cGMP and other applicable U.S. and foreign regulations and to employ adequate quality assurance practices; • inability to obtain the materials necessary to produce a product or to formulate the active pharmaceutical ingredient on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; • supply disruption, deterioration in product quality or breach of a manufacturing or license agreement by the third party because of factors beyond our or our licensees’ control; • termination or non-renewal of a manufacturing or licensing agreement with a third party at a time that is costly or difficult; and • inability to identify or qualify an alternative manufacturer in a timely manner, even if contractually permitted to do so. Problems associated with international business operations could affect our ability to manufacture and sell our products. If we encounter such problems, our costs could increase and our development of products could be delayed. We currently maintain offices and research and development facilities in the U.S. and the U.K., and our goal is to develop products for sale by us and our licensees in most major world healthcare markets. Manufacturing of pharmaceutical products requires us or our licensees to comply with regulations regarding safety and quality and 27 Table of Contents to obtain country and jurisdiction-specific regulatory approvals and clearances. We or our licensees may not be able to comply with such regulations or to obtain or maintain needed regulatory approvals and clearances or may be required to incur significant costs in doing so. In addition, our operations and future revenues may be subject to a number of risks associated with foreign commerce, including the following: • staffing and managing foreign operations; • political and economic instability; • foreign currency exchange fluctuations; • foreign tax laws, tariffs and freight rates and charges; • timing and availability of export licenses; • inadequate protection of intellectual property rights in some countries; and • obtaining required government approvals. Credit and financial market conditions may exacerbate certain risks affecting our business. Sales of our products are, and if approved, our product candidates will, depend on the availability and extent of reimbursement from government and other third-party payors. Difficult credit and financial market conditions may increase the risk that government and other third-party payors will reduce the availability or extent of reimbursement for our products, and the risk that third-party payors will delay or default on reimbursement obligations. Development and sales of our products and product candidates also heavily depend on collaborative partners and third-party suppliers. Difficult credit and financial market conditions may increase the risk that there are delays, disruptions or defaults in the performance of these third parties’ obligations to us. Legislative or regulatory changes may adversely affect our business, operations and financial results. Our industry is highly regulated and new laws, regulations and judicial decisions, and new interpretations of existing laws, regulations and judicial decisions, may adversely affect our business, operations and financial results. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (PPACA) is intended to expand U.S. healthcare coverage primarily through the imposition of health insurance mandates on employers and individuals and expansion of the Medicaid program. Several provisions of the PPACA could significantly reduce payments from Medicare and Medicaid for our products and any product candidates which obtain approval over the next 10 years. The PPACA’s effects cannot be fully known until its provisions are implemented, and the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, and other federal and state agencies, issue applicable regulations or guidance. Proposed U.S. state healthcare reforms, and any foreign healthcare reforms, also could alter the availability, methods and rates of reimbursements from the government and other third-party payors for our products and any product candidates which obtain approval, and could adversely affect our business strategy, operations and financial results. The Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 granted the FDA enhanced authority over products already approved for sale, including authority to require post-marketing studies and clinical trials, labeling changes based on new safety information and compliance with risk evaluations and mitigation strategies approved by the FDA. The FDA’s exercise of this relatively new authority could result in delays and increased costs during product development, clinical trials and regulatory review and approval, increased costs following regulatory approval to assure compliance with new post-approval regulatory requirements, and potential restrictions on the sale or distribution of approved products following regulatory approval. 28 Table of Contents Changes in the regulatory approval policy during the development period, changes in or the enactment of additional regulations or statutes, or changes in regulatory review for each submitted product application may cause delays in the approval or rejection of an application. For example, the July 9, 2012 reauthorization of the Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA) extended by two months the period in which the FDA is expected to review and approve certain NDAs. Although the FDA has recently stated that it expects to meet PDUFA’s updated timing goals, it has in the past provided its managers discretion to miss them due to heightened agency workload or understaffing in the review divisions; accordingly, it remains unclear whether and to what extent the FDA will adhere to PDUFA timing goals in the future, which could delay approval and commercialization of our product candidates. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK The price of our common stock may be volatile. The price of our common stock (including common stock represented by CHESS Depositary Interests (CDIs)) may be affected by developments directly affecting our business as well as by developments out of our control or not specific to us. The price of our common stock dropped significantly when the FDA issued its 2011 CRL with respect to ILUVIEN for DME. The biotechnology sector, in particular, and the stock market generally, are vulnerable to abrupt changes in investor sentiment. Prices of securities and trading volume of companies in the biotechnology industry, including ours, can swing dramatically in ways unrelated to, or that bear a disproportionate relationship to, our performance. The price of our common stock (and CDIs) and their trading volumes may fluctuate based on a number of factors including, but not limited to: • clinical trials and their results and other product and technological developments and innovations; • FDA and other domestic and international governmental regulatory actions, receipt and timing of approvals of our product candidates, and any denials and withdrawal of approvals; • competitive factors, including the commercialization of new products in our markets by our competitors; • advancements with respect to treatment of the diseases targeted by our product candidates; • developments relating to and actions by collaborative partners, including execution, amendment and termination of agreements, achievement of milestones and receipt of payments; • the success of our collaborative partners in marketing any approved products and the amount and timing of payments to us; • availability and cost of capital and our financial and operating results; • changes in reimbursement policies or other practices relating to our product candidates or the pharmaceutical industry generally; • meeting, exceeding or failing to meet analysts’ or investors’ expectations, and changes in evaluations and recommendations by securities analysts; • economic, industry and market conditions, changes or trends; and • other factors unrelated to us or the biotechnology industry. In addition, low trading volume in our common stock or our CDIs may increase their price volatility. Holders of our common stock and CDIs may not be able to liquidate their positions at the desired time or price. Finally, we will need to continue to meet the listing requirements of the NASDAQ Global Market, including the minimum stock price, and the Australian Securities Exchange for our stock and CHESS Depositary Interests to continue to be traded on those exchanges, respectively. 29 Table of Contents If the holders of our outstanding warrants and stock options exercise their warrants and options, ownership of our common stock holders may be diluted, and our stock price may decline. As of August 31, 2012, we had outstanding warrants and options to acquire approximately 4.6 million shares of our common stock, or approximately 16.6% of our shares on a fully diluted basis. The issuance of shares of our common stock upon exercise of these warrants and stock options could result in dilution to the interests of other holders of our common stock and could adversely affect our stock price. The overhang of outstanding warrants and options may adversely affect our stock price. Pfizer owns a significant percentage of our common stock and is a collaborative partner and therefore may be able to influence our business in ways that are not beneficial to you. Pfizer owned approximately 8.0% of our outstanding shares as of August 31, 2012 and is a collaborative partner. As a result, Pfizer may be able to exert significant influence over our board of directors and how we operate our business. The concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock, and any return to investors is expected to come, if at all, only from potential increases in the price of our common stock. At the present time, we intend to use available funds to finance our operations. Accordingly, while payment of dividends rests within the discretion of our board of directors, no cash dividends on our common shares have been declared or paid by us and we have no intention of paying any such dividends in the foreseeable future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 