Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K, regarding, among other matters: • our ability to attract members to our Web sites, convert members into paying subscribers and retain our paying subscribers; • the highly competitive nature of our business; • our ability to keep pace with rapid technological change; • the strength of our existing brands and our ability to maintain and enhance those brands; • our ability to effectively manage our expenses; • our dependence upon the telecommunications infrastructure and our networking hardware and software infrastructure; • uncertainties relating to potential acquisitions of companies; • the volatility of the price of our equity securities; • the strain on our resources and management team of being a public company; • the ability of our principal stockholders to exercise significant influence over our company; and • other factors referenced in this annual report on Form 10-K and other reports. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. We cannot assure you that the events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. Moreover, neither we nor any other person assume responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of the forward-looking statements. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason after the date of this annual report on Form 10-K to conform these statements to actual results or to changes in our expectations. You should read this annual report on Form 10-K, and the documents that we reference in this annual report on Form 10-K and have filed as exhibits with the Securities and Exchange Commission, completely and with the understanding that our actual future results, levels of activity, performance and achievements may materially differ from what we expect. We qualify all of our forward-looking statements by these cautionary statements. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION We are required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. You can read our SEC filings over the Internet at the SEC’s Web site at http://www.sec.gov. You may also read and copy any document we file with the SEC at its public reference facilities at 100 F Street, N.E. Washington, DC 20549. You may also obtain copies of the documents at prescribed rates by writing to the Public Reference Section of the SEC at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the operation of the public reference facilities. We maintain a corporate Web site at www.spark.net. You may access our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed with, or furnished to, the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, with the SEC free of charge at our Web site as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The reference to our Web address is provided for informational purposes only and does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on this Web site. 3 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” refer to Spark Networks, Inc., a Delaware corporation and its subsidiaries. Our Business We are a leading provider of online personals services in the United States and internationally. Our Web sites enable adults to meet online, participate in a community and form relationships. We provide this opportunity through many features on our Web sites, such as profiles, onsite email centers, real-time chat rooms, instant messaging services and offline singles events. Currently, our key Web sites include JDate.com, Spark.com, BlackSingles.com and ChristianMingle.com. We operate several international Web sites and maintain operations in the United States and Israel. Information regarding the geographical source of our revenue and data on our four reportable segments can be found in Note 11 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report. Membership on our sites is free and allows a registered user to post a personal profile and access our searchable database of member profiles and customer service. On most of our websites, the ability to initiate most communication with other members requires the payment of a monthly subscription fee, which represents our primary source of revenue. We offer discounted subscription rates for members who subscribe for periods longer than one month. Subscriptions primarily renew automatically for subsequent one-month periods until paying subscribers terminate them. Prior to July 9, 2007, Spark Networks Limited (formerly known as Spark Networks plc) was a public limited company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales (“Limited”). Since the completion of our reorganization on July 9, 2007 through a shareholder vote and court process in the United Kingdom known as a “Scheme of Arrangement”, the common stock of Spark Networks, Inc., a Delaware corporation and Limited’s parent entity, has been traded on the NYSE Amex (formerly the American Stock Exchange) and the Company has become Limited’s successor reporting entity. Our Industry We believe online personals fulfill significant needs for single adults looking to meet a companion or date. Traditional methods such as printed personals advertisements, offline dating services and public gathering places often do not meet the needs of single people. Printed personals advertisements offer individuals limited personal information and interaction before meeting. Offline dating services are time-consuming, expensive and offer a smaller number of potential partners. Public gathering places such as restaurants, bars and social venues provide a limited opportunity to learn about others prior to an in-person meeting. In contrast, online personals services facilitate interaction between singles by allowing them to screen and communicate with a large number of potential companions. With features such as detailed personal profiles, email and instant messaging, this medium allows users to communicate with other singles at their convenience and affords them the ability to meet multiple people in an anonymous, convenient and secure online setting. Our Competitive Strengths • Strength of the JDate Brand. We believe JDate, with its strong brand recognition, is a valuable asset. We believe the strength of the JDate brand will continue to allow us to market to and serve the Jewish community profitably. Because of the strength of the JDate brand, we are not required to spend as much on marketing JDate as we are on our other Web sites, or as much as others in the industry may spend on their personals Web sites. 4 Table of Contents • Affinity-Focused Communities. We believe singles are more likely to interact, find friends and form lasting relationships with like-minded individuals who share common values, beliefs, traditions and cultural upbringings. For this reason, the majority of our Web sites are targeted to specific religious, ethnic, geographic and special interest groups. We believe our targeted communities enjoy greater word-of-mouth recognition and consumer loyalty relative to general market communities. • Web Site Functionality. We continually evaluate the functionality of our Web sites to improve our members’ experience. Many of the features we offer, such as onsite emails, real-time chat rooms, instant messaging, E-cards and message boards increase the probability of communication between our members, which we believe increases the number and percentage of members who become or remain paying subscribers. We believe this functionality drives return visits to our Web sites and helps retain paying subscribers. • Customer Service Focus. Our multi-lingual call centers and email support team monitor our sites for fraudulent activity, assist members with billing questions, help members complete personal profiles and answer technical questions. We believe the quality of our customer service increases member satisfaction, which improves the number and percentage of members that become and remain paying subscribers. Our Online Personals Services Our online personals services offer single adults a convenient and secure setting for meeting other singles. Visitors to our Web sites are encouraged to become registered members and post profiles. Posting a profile is a process in which visitors are asked various questions about themselves, including information such as their tastes in food, hobbies and desired attributes of potential partners. Members may also post photos of themselves. Members can perform detailed searches of other profiles and save their preferences, and their profiles can be viewed by other members. In most cases, for a member to initiate email and instant message communication with others, that member must purchase a subscription. A subscription affords access to the paying subscribers’ on-site email, instant messaging systems, message boards and chat rooms, enabling such subscribers to communicate with other members and paying subscribers. Our subscription fees are charged on a monthly basis, with discounts for longer-term subscriptions. Our Web Sites. We believe we are a relatively unique company in the online personals industry because, in addition to servicing the mass market, we operate Web sites targeted at specific religious, ethnic, geographic and special interest groups. We currently offer Web sites in English, Hebrew and French. Some of our Web sites, organized by segment, are as follows: Web Site Target Audience Jewish Networks JDate.com Jewish singles JDate.co.uk Jewish singles Cupid.co.il Jewish singles (Hebrew speakers) JDate.co.il Jewish singles (Hebrew speakers) JDate.fr Jewish singles (French speakers) General Market Networks Spark.com Non-targeted Kizmeet.com Dating and matchmaking Date.co.uk UK singles Other Affinity Networks AdventistSinglesConnection.com Adventist singles AsianSinglesConnection.com Asian singles BBWPersonalsPlus.com Big beautiful women and admirers 5 Table of Contents Web Site Target Audience BlackSingles.com African-American singles CanadianPersonals.net Canadian singles CatholicMingle.com Catholic singles ChristianMingle.com Christian singles DeafSinglesConnection.com Deaf singles GreekSinglesConnection.com Greek singles IndianMatrimonialNetwork.com Indian singles InterracialSingles.net Interracial singles ItalianSinglesConnection.com Italian singles LatinSinglesConnection.com Latin singles LDSMingle.com Mormon singles LDSSingles.com Mormon singles MilitarySinglesConnection.com Military singles SingleSeniorsMeet.com Mature singles SingleParentsMingle.com Single parents UKSinglesConnection.com UK singles Offline and Other Businesses HurryDate.com Rapid dating and offline events Facelink.com Free dating search engine Web Site Features. We offer different ways for our members to communicate including: • On-Site Email. We provide all paying subscribers with private message centers. These personal on-site email boxes offer features such as customizable folders for storing correspondence, the ability to know when sent messages were read, as well as block and ignore functions, which allow a paying subscriber to control future messages from specific paying subscribers. • Hot Lists and Favorites. “Hot Lists” enable members to see who is interested in them and to save those favorite members in whom they are interested. Lists include (1) who has viewed your profile, (2) your favorites and (3) who has emailed you. Members can group their favorites into customized folders and add their own notes, including details included in a member’s profile. • Message Boards. Message Boards enable paying subscribers to communicate in a group environment with suggested topics for discussion. • Real-Time Chat Rooms. Paying subscribers can use our exclusive chat rooms to mix and mingle in real-time, building a sense of community through group discussions. Additional features enable users to add customized graphics such as emoticons to their conversations. • Ice Breakers. Members can send pre-packaged opening remarks, referred to on the Web sites as “flirts” and “teases,” to other members or paying subscribers. • Click! Our patented Click! feature connects members who think they would be compatible with each other. A member clicks “yes,” “no” or “maybe” in another member’s profile. When two members click “yes” in each other’s profiles, our patented feature sends an email to both of them alerting them of a possible match. Travel and Events. As a complement to our online services, we offer travel and other promotional events which allow individuals to meet in a more personal environment. Our travel and events are typically cruises, dinners, speed dating events or other mixers designed to facilitate social interaction. 6 Table of Contents Business Strategy We intend to grow revenue by driving additional traffic to our Web sites, increasing the number and percentage of our members who convert to paying subscribers, launching new or acquiring existing businesses, and implementing advertising sales on select Web sites. Drive traffic. We believe there are opportunities to drive additional traffic to our Web sites through integrated and targeted marketing and cross-promotion into vertical affinity markets. • Integrated and targeted marketing. We believe targeting potential members with consistent and compelling marketing messages, delivered through a broad mix of marketing channels, will be effective in driving more traffic and a higher percentage of relationship-oriented singles to our Web sites. We intend to use a variety of channels to build our brands and increase our base of subscribers including online and offline advertising, customer relationship management tools, public relations, promotional alliances and special events. • Cross-promote. Our large base of members provides us with a significant amount of consumer data to evaluate cross-promotion opportunities for growth. We are able to analyze different groups of members by key metrics such as total potential subscribers and average revenue per paying subscriber and identify those targeted groups that may prefer a service dedicated to their particular affinity groups. Increase Conversion Rates. We believe a growth opportunity lies in our ability to convert more of our members into paying subscribers. We plan to achieve this increase in conversion by focusing on: • Improved member communications. We believe enhanced member communications is a key component to growing our business. We continue to focus on improving and enhancing our Web site functionality and features to encourage communications between members. Most of these communications require members to become paying subscribers. We will also continue to inform members of new features and functions to increase the number of visitors to our Web sites who become paying subscribers. • Improved search. We believe the more successful members are in finding matches in our database, the more likely they are to want to communicate with those members. To initiate email and instant message communication or participate in the chat rooms or message boards, members must become paying subscribers. We intend to continue to enhance the quality and relevance of our search results to provide fast, relevant suggestions. • Leveraging strong customer service. Each time a member or a potential member contacts our customer service center by email or phone, he or she represents a potential new paying subscriber. By training our customer service representatives on upselling opportunities, we believe they will continue to be successful in selling our services. Extend into new affinity-focused markets. We constantly evaluate new opportunities to identify potential new affinity-focused markets into which we may expand either organically or through acquisition. Our large member base provides us with significant consumer data to evaluate opportunities for growth into such new markets and identify those target groups that may prefer a service dedicated to their particular affinity group. Implement ad sales. We believe there is an opportunity for additional revenue from the sale of advertising on our Web sites. We expect advertisers will continue to seek highly targeted environments such as ours to complement their brands and reach niche consumers. We intend to remain selective about our choices for advertising partners so as not to adversely affect the quality of our user experience. In addition, advertisers have expressed an interest in our ability to provide them with an offline presence at our various parties and events around the country. 7 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing We engage in a variety of marketing activities intended to drive consumer traffic to our Web sites and to allow us the opportunity to introduce our products and services to prospective members. Our marketing efforts are principally focused online, where we employ a combination of banner and other display advertising. We also rely on commercial search listings and direct email campaigns to attract potential members and paying subscribers, and use a network of online affiliates, through which we acquire traffic. None of these affiliates individually represents a material portion of our revenue. These affiliate arrangements are easily cancelable, often with only one day notice. Typically, we do not have exclusivity arrangements with our affiliates, and some of our affiliates may also be affiliates for our competitors. We supplement our online marketing by employing a variety of offline marketing and business development activities. These include print, public relations, event sponsorship and promotional alliances. We believe a more targeted marketing message, delivered through an array of available marketing channels, will improve consumer awareness of our brands, drive more traffic to our Web sites and, therefore, increase the number of members and paying subscribers. Customer Service Our multi-lingual call centers and email support team monitor our sites for fraudulent activity, assist members with billing questions, help members complete personal profiles and answer technical questions. Customer service representatives receive ongoing training in an effort to better personalize the experience for members and paying subscribers who call or email us and to capitalize on upselling opportunities. Technology Throughout the year, projects, such as premium services, were successfully deployed using a mix of our proprietary technologies. In addition to our new products, our technology employees maintain our software and hardware infrastructure. Our network infrastructure and operations are designed to deliver high levels of availability, performance, security and scalability in a cost-effective manner. We operate Web and database servers co-located at third party data center facilities in Los Angeles, California and Lindon, Utah. Intellectual Property We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws in the United States and other jurisdictions as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology and our brands. We also enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and consultants and confidentiality agreements with other third parties. Spark Networks, Spark, JDate and BlackSingles.com are some of our trademarks, whether registered or not, in the United States and several other countries. Spark Networks, Spark, BlackSingles.com and JDate are registered trademarks in the United States. JDate is also a registered trademark in the EU, Australia, Israel and Canada. Spark Networks is a registered trademark in the United States and EU. Our rights to these registered trademarks are perpetual as long as we use them and renew them periodically. We also have a number of other registered and unregistered trademarks. We hold two United States patents for our Click! application, the first of which expires January 24, 2017, that pertain to an automated process for confidentially determining whether people feel mutual attraction or have mutual interests. Click! is important to our business in that it is a method and apparatus for detection of reciprocal interests or feelings and subsequent notification of such results. The patents describe the method and apparatus for the identification of a person’s level of attraction and the subsequent notification when the feeling or attraction is mutual. 8 Table of Contents Competition We operate in a highly competitive environment with minimal barriers to entry. We believe the primary competitive factors in creating a community on the Internet are functionality, brand recognition, critical mass of members, member affinity and loyalty, ease-of-use, quality of service and reliability. We compete with a number of large and small companies, including vertically integrated Internet portals and specialty-focused media companies that provide online and offline products and services to the markets we serve. Our principal online personals services competitors include Yahoo! Personals, Match.com, a wholly-owned subsidiary of InterActiveCorp, and eHarmony, all of which operate primarily in North America. In addition, we face competition from social networking Web sites such as MySpace and Facebook. There are numerous other companies offering online personals services, but are smaller than us in terms of paying subscribers and annual revenue generation. Employees As of December 31, 2009, we had 155 full-time equivalent employees. We are not subject to any collective bargaining agreements and we believe our relationship with our employees is good. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this report before making an investment decision. The risks described below are the material risks that we are currently aware of that are facing our company. In addition, other sections of this report may include additional factors that could adversely impact our business and operating results. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock would decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business Our growth rates may decline and our operating margins could deteriorate; our business may be adversely affected as a result of the economic downturn. Our revenue has declined over the last few years. It is possible our operating margins will deteriorate if revenue growth does not exceed planned increases in expenditures for all aspects of our business in an increasingly competitive environment, including sales and marketing, general and administrative and technical operations expenses. Our member and paying subscriber base is composed of individual consumers and in the event of a prolonged economic downturn in the United States or in our international markets in which spending by individual consumers drops significantly, our current and potential subscribers may be unable or unwilling to subscribe to our services and our business may be negatively affected. To the extent the overall economy continues to deteriorate, we may lose existing members and paying subscribers and fail to attract new members and paying subscribers. Average paying subscribers decreased 11.0% in 2009 compared to 2008. If our members and paying subscribers continue to decrease, then our revenue would decrease and our operations could be adversely affected. We have significant operating losses and we may incur additional losses in the future. Although we were profitable in 2008 and 2007, we have historically generated significant operating losses. As of December 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $31.1 million. We had net income (loss) of approximately ($6.4), $4.8 and $9.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. If our revenue does not grow at a substantially faster rate than our operating expenses, or if our operating expenses are higher than we anticipate, or if our revenue continues to decline but our operating expenses increase, we may not be profitable and we may incur additional losses, which could be significant. 9 Table of Contents Adverse capital and credit market conditions could limit our access to capital and increase our cost of capital, which may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for more than twelve months. In 2009, the volatility and disruption have reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. Without sufficient liquidity, we may be forced to curtail certain operations and may be unable to operate our business as we deem appropriate. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital required to operate our business. Such market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities and access the capital necessary to operate and grow our business. As such, we may be forced to delay raising capital or bear an unattractive cost of capital which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. Our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and capital position could be materially adversely affected by disruptions in the financial markets. If our efforts to attract a large number of members, convert members into paying subscribers and retain our paying subscribers are not successful, our revenue and operating results will suffer. Our future growth depends on our ability to attract a large number of members, convert members into paying subscribers and retain our paying subscribers. This in turn depends on our ability to deliver a high-quality online personals experience to these members and paying subscribers. As a result, we must continue to invest significant resources in order to enhance our existing products and services and introduce new high-quality products and services that people will use. If we are unable to predict user preferences or industry changes, or if we are unable to modify our products and services on a timely basis, we may lose existing members and paying subscribers and may fail to attract new members and paying subscribers. Our revenue and expenses will also be adversely affected if our innovations are not responsive to the needs of our members and paying subscribers or are not brought to market in an effective or timely manner. Our subscriber acquisition costs vary depending upon prevailing market conditions and may increase significantly in the future. Costs for us to acquire paying subscribers are dependent, in part, upon our ability to purchase advertising at a reasonable cost. Our advertising costs vary over time, depending upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Historically, we have used online advertising as the primary means of marketing our services. Despite an economic downturn, costs of online advertising may continue to increase. If we are not able to reduce our other operating costs, increase our paying subscriber base or increase revenue per paying subscriber to offset these increases, our profitability will be adversely affected. In addition, our costs to acquire subscribers may increase if we raise prices on our Web sites as potential customers may be slower or more reluctant to purchase higher price services and Web site access. We secured a $25.0 million revolving credit facility, which could restrict our ability to use our operating cash flow for the growth of our business. In February 2008, we entered into an agreement with Bank of America for a $30.0 million revolving credit facility, which was amended to $25.0 million on September 29, 2009, under which we had no outstanding borrowings as of December 31, 2009. If we are unable to pay our debts as they become due, we will be required to pursue one or more alternative strategies, such as refinancing or restructuring our indebtedness, selling additional debt or equity securities or selling assets. We may not be able to refinance our debt or issue additional debt or equity securities on favorable terms, if at all, and if we must sell our assets, it may negatively affect our ability to generate future revenue. If we are unable to meet our obligations as they become due or to comply with various financial covenants contained in the revolving credit facility, this could constitute an event of default. 10 Table of Contents Our obligations under the credit facility are secured by a lien on substantially all of the assets of Spark Networks Limited, which is the borrower under the credit facility, and by guarantees by Spark Networks, Inc. and a number of our subsidiaries. Any default under the credit facility, could result in an acceleration of payment of all outstanding debt owed at the time, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition. Our revolving credit facility has certain covenants that could restrict how we operate our business. The terms of our revolving credit facility contain various provisions that limit our ability to, among other things: • incur or guarantee additional debt; • receive dividends or distributions from our subsidiaries; • make investments and other restricted payments; • grant liens; • transfer or sell assets; • engage in different lines of business; and • consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets. These covenants may affect our ability to operate and finance our business as we deem appropriate. If we are unable to meet our obligations as they become due or to comply with various financial covenants contained in the revolving credit facility, this could constitute an event of default. Competition presents an ongoing threat to the performance of our business. We expect competition in the online personals business to continue to increase because there are no substantial barriers to entry. We believe our ability to compete depends upon many factors both within and beyond our control, including the following: • the size and diversity of our member and paying subscriber bases; • the timing and market acceptance of our products and services, including the developments and enhancements to those products and services relative to those offered by our competitors; • customer service and support efforts; • selling and marketing efforts; and • our brand strength in the marketplace relative to our competitors. We compete with traditional personals services, as well as newspapers, magazines and other traditional media companies that provide personals services. We compete with a number of large and small companies, including Internet portals and specialty-focused media companies that provide online and offline products and services to the markets we serve. Our principal online personals services competitors include Yahoo! Personals, Match.com, a wholly-owned subsidiary of InterActiveCorp, and eHarmony, all of which operate primarily in North America. In addition, we face competition from social networking Web sites such as MySpace and Facebook. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources and larger customer bases than we do. These factors may allow our competitors to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. These competitors may engage in more extensive research and development efforts, undertake more far-reaching marketing campaigns and adopt more aggressive pricing policies that may allow them to build larger member and paying subscriber bases than ours. Our competitors may develop products or services that are equal or superior to our products and services or that achieve greater market acceptance than our products and services. These activities could attract members and paying subscribers away from our Web sites and reduce our market share. 11 Table of Contents In addition, current and potential competitors are making, and are expected to continue to make, strategic acquisitions or establishing cooperative and, in some cases, exclusive relationships with significant companies or competitors to expand their businesses or to offer more comprehensive products and services. To the extent these competitors or potential competitors establish exclusive relationships with major portals, search engines and Internet Service Providers, or ISPs, our ability to reach potential members through online advertising may be restricted. Any of these competitors could cause us difficulty in attracting and retaining members and converting members into paying subscribers and could jeopardize our existing affiliate program and relationships with portals, search engines, ISPs and other Web properties. Evaluating the acquisition proposal by Great Hill Partners, considering other potential transactions and strategic alternatives and responding to related stockholder litigation may divert management’s attention and other resources away from the Company’s business. On March 2, 2010, the Company received a proposal by Great Hill Partners III, LP (“Great Hill”) to purchase all of the outstanding shares of common stock of the Company not owned by Great Hill at a cash purchase price of $3.10 per share. A Special Committee of independent directors has retained a financial advisor and is reviewing and evaluating the proposal and any other potential transactions and strategic alternatives. The Special Committee will recommend to Spark Networks’ board of directors whether to approve or decline the proposal and any other potential transactions and strategic alternatives. On March 11, 2010, L.I.S.T. Incorporated initiated a class action lawsuit against the Company, Great Hill and each of the directors in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware and on March 24, 2010, Mike Shaffer initiated a class action lawsuit in the Superior Court of California, County of Los Angeles against the same defendants. Both lawsuits allege breach of fiduciary duty in connection with the proposal by Great Hill. Even if not meritorious, such litigation could be time-consuming and expensive and could result in the diversion of management’s time and attention away from our day-to-day business. The Company believes that the allegations of the complaint are without merit and intends to vigorously contest the actions. However, there can be no assurances that the defendants will be successful in such defense. The Company and the directors could also be subject to further litigation related to the proposal or any other potential transaction. As the Company evaluates the proposal and any other potential transactions and addresses such litigation, the time and attention of management and the Company’s directors will be less focused on our daily operations and businesses and may require us to incur significant expenses with financial and legal advisors. If the Company enters into an agreement, management’s attention and other resources will be further diverted as the Company works toward completion of a transaction. The diversion of management attention and resources required could harm the Company’s business, financial condition and operating results. Our efforts to capitalize upon opportunities to expand into new vertical affinity markets may fail and could result in a loss of capital and other valuable resources. We may decide to expand into new vertical affinity markets to increase our revenue base. If we expand into such vertical affinity markets, management’s time and attention will be less focused on our existing businesses and will require us to invest significant capital resources. The results of any expansion efforts into new vertical affinity markets are unpredictable, and there is no guarantee that our efforts will have a positive effect on our revenue base. We face many risks associated with our planned expansion into new vertical affinity markets, including but not limited to the following: • competition from pre-existing competitors with significantly stronger brand recognition in the markets we enter; • our improper evaluation of the potential of such markets; • diversion of capital and other valuable resources away from our core business; • foregoing opportunities that are potentially more profitable; and • weakening our current brands by over expansion into too many new markets. 12 Table of Contents If we fail to keep pace with rapid technological change, our competitive position will suffer. We operate in a market characterized by rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards, frequent new product and service announcements, enhancements and changing customer demands. Accordingly, our performance will depend on our ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies and industry standards, and our ability to continually improve the speed, performance, features, ease of use and reliability of our services in response to both evolving demands of the marketplace and competitive service and product offerings. There have been occasions when we have not been as responsive as many of our competitors in adapting our services to changing industry standards and the needs of our members and paying subscribers. Our industry has been subject to constant innovation and competition. New features may be introduced by one competitor, and if they are perceived as attractive to users, they are often copied later by others. Over the last few years, such new feature introductions in the industry have included instant messaging, message boards, E-cards, personality profiles and mobile content delivery. Introducing new technologies into our systems involves numerous technical challenges, substantial amounts of capital and personnel resources and often takes many months to complete. We intend to continue to devote efforts and funds toward the development of additional technologies and services. For example, in 2008 and 2009 we introduced a number of new Web sites and features, and we anticipate the introduction of additional Web sites and features in 2010 and 2011. We may not be able to effectively integrate new technologies into our Web sites on a timely basis or at all, which may degrade the responsiveness and speed of our Web sites. Such technologies, even if integrated, may not function as expected. Our business depends on establishing and maintaining strong brands and if we are not able to maintain and enhance our brands, we may be unable to expand or maintain our member and paying subscriber bases. We believe that establishing and maintaining our brands is critical to our efforts to attract and expand our member and paying subscriber bases. We believe that the importance of brand recognition will continue to increase, given the growing number of Internet sites and the low barriers to entry for companies offering online personals services. To attract and retain members and paying subscribers, and to promote and maintain our brands in response to competitive pressures, we may have to substantially increase our financial commitment to creating and maintaining distinct brand loyalty among these groups. If visitors, members and paying subscribers to our Web sites and our affiliate and distribution associates do not perceive our existing services to be of high quality, or if we introduce new services or enter into new business ventures that are not favorably received by such parties, the value of our brands could be diluted, thereby decreasing the attractiveness of our Web sites to such parties. As a result, our results of operations may be adversely affected by decreased brand recognition. If we are unable to attract, retain and motivate key personnel or hire qualified personnel, or such personnel do not work well together, our growth prospects and profitability will be harmed. Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. The loss of any of our management or key personnel could seriously harm our business. We may also encounter difficulties in recruiting personnel as we become a more mature company in a competitive industry. Competition in our industry for personnel is intense, and we are aware that our competitors have directly targeted our employees. We do not have non-competition agreements with most employees and, even in cases where we do, these agreements are of limited enforceability in California. We also do not maintain any key-person life insurance policies on our executives. The incentives to attract, retain and motivate employees provided by our option grants or by future arrangements, such as cash bonuses, may not be as effective as they have been in the past. If we do not succeed in attracting necessary personnel or retaining and motivating existing personnel, we may be unable to grow effectively. 13 Table of Contents Our business depends on our server and network hardware and software and our ability to obtain network capacity; our current safeguard systems may be inadequate to prevent an interruption in the availability of our services. The performance of our server and networking hardware and software infrastructure is critical to our business and reputation, to our ability to attract visitors and members to our Web sites, to convert them into paying subscribers and to retain paying subscribers. An unexpected and/or substantial increase in the use of our Web sites could strain the capacity of our systems, which could lead to a slower response time or system failures. Although we have not recently experienced many significant delays, any future slowdowns or system failures could adversely affect the speed and responsiveness of our Web sites and would diminish the experience for our visitors, members and paying subscribers. We face risks related to our ability to scale up to our expected customer levels while maintaining superior performance. If the usage of our Web sites substantially increases, we may need to purchase additional servers and networking equipment and services to maintain adequate data transmission speeds, the availability of which may be limited or the cost of which may be significant. Any system failure that causes an interruption in service or a decrease in the responsiveness of our Web sites could reduce traffic on our Web sites and, if sustained or repeated, could impair our reputation and the attractiveness of our brands as well as reduce revenue and negatively impact our operating results. Furthermore, we rely on many different hardware systems and software applications, some of which have been developed internally. If these hardware systems or software applications fail, it would adversely affect our ability to provide our services. If we are unable to protect our data from loss or electronic or magnetic corruption, or if we receive a significant unexpected increase in usage and are not able to rapidly expand our transaction-processing systems and network infrastructure without any systems interruptions, it could seriously harm our business and reputation. We have experienced occasional systems interruptions in the past as a result of unexpected increases in usage, and we cannot assure you that we will not incur similar or more serious interruptions in the future. From time to time, our company and our Web sites have been subject to delays and interruptions due to software viruses, or variants thereof, such as internet worms. In addition, we do not have a “high availability” disaster recovery system, which means in the event of any catastrophic failure involving our Web sites, we may be unable to serve our Web traffic for a significant period of time. Our Web sites primarily operate from only a single site located in either Southern California or Utah. Any system failure, including network, software or hardware failure, that causes an interruption in the delivery of our Web sites and services or a decrease in responsiveness of our services would result in reduced visitor traffic, reduced revenue and would adversely affect our reputation and brands. The failure to establish and maintain affiliate agreements and relationships could limit the growth of our business. We have entered into, and expect to continue to enter into, arrangements with affiliates to increase our member and paying subscriber bases, bring traffic to our Web sites and enhance our brands. Pursuant to our arrangements, an affiliate generally advertises or promotes our Web site on its Web site, and earns a fee whenever visitors to its Web site click though the advertisement to one of our Web sites and register or subscribe on our Web site. Affiliate arrangements constitute over half of our marketing program. These affiliate arrangements are easily cancelable, often with one day notice. We do not typically have any exclusivity arrangements with our affiliates, and some of our affiliates may also be affiliates for our competitors. None of these affiliates, individually, represents a material portion of our revenue. If any of our current affiliate agreements are terminated, we may not be able to replace the terminated agreement with an equally beneficial arrangement. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew any of our current agreements when they terminate or, if we are able to do so, that such renewals will be available on acceptable terms. We also do not know whether we will be able to enter into additional agreements or that any relationships, if entered into, will be on terms favorable to us. 14 Table of Contents We rely on a number of third-party providers and their failure or unwillingness to continue to perform could harm us. We rely on third parties to provide important services and technologies to us, including third parties that manage and monitor our offsite data centers located in Southern California and Utah, ISPs, search engine marketing providers and credit card processors. In addition, we license technologies from third parties to facilitate our ability to provide our services. Any failure on our part to comply with the terms of these licenses could result in the loss of our rights to continue using the licensed technology, and we could experience difficulties obtaining licenses for alternative technologies. Furthermore, any failure of these third parties to provide these and other services, or errors, failures, interruptions or delays associated with licensed technologies, could significantly harm our business. Any financial or other difficulties our providers face may have negative effects on our business, the nature and extent of which we cannot predict. Except to the extent of the terms of our contracts with such third party providers, we exercise little or no control over them, which increases our vulnerability to problems with the services and technologies they provide and license to us. In addition, if any fees charged by third-party providers were to substantially increase, such as if ISPs began charging us for emails sent by our paying subscribers to other members or paying subscribers, we could incur significant additional losses. If we fail to develop or maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm the value of our stock. Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, effectively prevent fraud and operate as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. We have, in the past, discovered and may, in the future, discover areas of our internal controls over financial reporting that need improvement. As a U.S. public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are required to annually assess and report on our internal controls over financial reporting. Beginning with the annual report for the fiscal year 2010, we are required to have our independent registered public accountant issue an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls. If we are unable to adequately maintain or improve our internal controls over financial reporting, we may report that our internal controls are ineffective and our external auditors will not be able to issue an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls. Ineffective internal controls over financial reporting could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our securities or could affect our ability to access the capital markets and which could result in regulatory proceedings against us by, among others, the U.S. Securities Exchange Commission. Acquisitions could result in operating difficulties, dilution and other harmful consequences. We plan, during the next few years, to further extend and develop our presence, both within the United States and internationally, partially through acquisitions of entities offering online personals services and related businesses. We have limited experience acquiring companies and the companies we have acquired have been small. We have evaluated, and continue to evaluate, a wide array of potential strategic transactions. From time to time, we may engage in discussions regarding potential acquisitions, some of which may divert significant resources away from our daily operations. In addition, the process of integrating an acquired company, business or technology is risky and may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Some areas where we may face risks include: • the need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies of acquired companies that lacked appropriate controls, procedures and policies prior to the acquisition; • diversion of management time and focus from operating our business to acquisition integration challenges; • cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from an acquired company into our organization; 15 Table of Contents • retaining employees from the businesses we acquire; and • the need to integrate each company’s accounting, management information, human resources and other administrative systems to permit effective management. The anticipated benefit of many of our acquisitions may not materialize. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, or write-offs, any of which could harm our financial condition. Future acquisitions may require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. We may not be effective in protecting our Internet domain names or proprietary rights upon which our business relies or in avoiding claims that we infringe upon the proprietary rights of others. We regard substantial elements of our Web sites and the underlying technology as proprietary, and attempt to protect them by relying on trademark, service mark, copyright, patent and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure and transferring title and other methods. We also generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and consultants, and generally seek to control access to and distribution of our technology, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information without authorization or to develop similar or superior technology independently. Effective trademark, service mark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our services are distributed or made available through the Internet, and policing unauthorized use of our proprietary information is difficult. Any such misappropriation or development of similar or superior technology by third parties could adversely impact our profitability and our future financial results. We believe that our Web sites, services, trademarks, patent and other proprietary technologies do not infringe upon the rights of third parties. However, there can be no assurance that our business activities do not and will not infringe upon the proprietary rights of others, or that other parties will not assert infringement claims against us. We are aware that other parties utilize the “Spark” name, or other marks that incorporate it, and those parties may have rights to such marks that are superior to ours. From time to time, we have been, and expect to continue to be, subject to claims in the ordinary course of business including claims of alleged infringement of the trademarks, service marks and other intellectual property rights of third parties by us. Although such claims have not resulted in any significant litigation or had a material adverse effect on our business to date, any such claims and resultant litigation might subject us to temporary injunctive restrictions on the use of our products, services or brand names and could result in significant liability for damages for intellectual property infringement, require us to enter into royalty agreements, or restrict us from using infringing software, services, trademarks, patents or technologies in the future. Even if not meritorious, such litigation could be time-consuming and expensive and could result in the diversion of management’s time and attention away from our day-to-day business. We currently hold various Web domain names relating to our brands and in the future may acquire new Web domain names. The regulation of domain names in the United States and in foreign countries is subject to change. Governing bodies may establish additional top level domains, appoint additional domain name registrars or modify the requirements for holding domain names. As a result, we may be unable to acquire or maintain relevant domain names in all countries in which we conduct business. Furthermore, the relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights is unclear. We may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of our existing trademarks and other proprietary rights or those we may seek to acquire. Any such inability to protect ourselves could cause us to lose a significant portion of our members and paying subscribers to our competitors. 16 Table of Contents We may face potential liability, loss of users and damage to our reputation for violation of our privacy policy or privacy laws and regulations. Our privacy policy prohibits the sale or disclosure to any third party of any member’s personal identifying information, except to the extent expressly set forth in the policy. Growing public concern about privacy and the collection, distribution and use of information about individuals may subject us to increased regulatory scrutiny and/or litigation. In the past, the Federal Trade Commission has investigated companies that have used personally identifiable information without permission or in violation of a stated privacy policy. If we are accused of violating the stated terms of our privacy policy, we may be forced to expend significant amounts of financial and managerial resources to defend against these accusations and we may face potential liability. Our membership database holds confidential information concerning our members, and we could be sued if any of that information is misappropriated or if a court determines that we have failed to protect that information. In addition, our affiliates handle personally identifiable information pertaining to our members and paying subscribers. Both we and our affiliates are subject to laws and regulations related to Internet communications (including the CAN-SPAM Act of 2003), consumer protection, advertising, privacy, security and data protection. If we or our affiliates are found to be in violation of these laws and regulations, we may become subject to administrative fines or litigation, which could materially increase our expenses and cause the value of our securities to decline. We may be liable as a result of information retrieved from or transmitted over the Internet. We may be sued for defamation, civil rights infringement, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, invasion of privacy, personal injury, product liability or under other legal theories relating to information that is published or made available on our Web sites and the other sites linked to it. These types of claims have been brought, sometimes successfully, against online services in the past. We also offer email services, which may subject us to potential risks, such as liabilities or claims resulting from unsolicited email or spamming, lost or misdirected messages, security breaches, illegal or fraudulent use of email or personal information or interruptions or delays in email service. Our insurance does not specifically provide for coverage of these types of claims and, therefore, may be inadequate to protect us against them. In addition, we could incur significant costs in investigating and defending such claims, even if we ultimately are not held liable. If any of these events occurs, our revenue could be materially adversely affected or we could incur significant additional expense, and the market price of our securities may decline. Our quarterly results may fluctuate because of many factors and, as a result, investors should not rely on quarterly operating results as indicative of future results. Fluctuations in operating results or the failure of operating results to meet the expectations of public market analysts and investors may negatively impact the value of our common stock. Quarterly operating results may fluctuate in the future due to a variety of factors that could affect revenue or expenses in any particular quarter. Fluctuations in quarterly operating results could cause the value of our securities to decline. Investors should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of results of operations as an indication of future performance. Factors that may affect our quarterly results include: • the demand for, and acceptance of, our online personals services and enhancements to these services; • the timing and amount of our subscription revenue; • the introduction, development, timing, competitive pricing and market acceptance of our Web sites and services and those of our competitors; • the magnitude and timing of marketing initiatives and capital expenditures relating to expansion of our operations; • the cost and timing of online and offline advertising and other marketing efforts; 17 Table of Contents • the maintenance and development of relationships with portals, search engines, ISPs and other Web properties and other entities capable of attracting potential members and paying subscribers to our Web sites; • technical difficulties, system failures, system security breaches, or downtime of the Internet, in general, or of our products and services, in particular; • costs related to any acquisitions or dispositions of technologies or businesses; • fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; and • general economic conditions, as well as those specific to the Internet, online personals and related industries. As a result of the factors listed above and because the online personals business is still immature, making it difficult to predict consumer demand, it is possible that in future periods results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. This could cause the market price of our securities to decline. We may need additional capital to finance our growth or to compete, which may cause dilution to existing stockholders or limit our flexibility in conducting our business activities. We currently anticipate that existing cash and cash equivalents and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated needs for working capital, operating expenses and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. However, we may need to raise additional capital in the future to fund expansion, whether in new vertical affinity or geographic markets, develop newer or enhanced services, respond to competitive pressures or acquire complementary businesses, technologies or services. Such additional financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience substantial dilution, and to the extent we engage in additional debt financing, if available, we may become subject to additional restrictive covenants that could limit our flexibility in conducting future business activities. If additional financing is not available or not available on acceptable terms, we may not be able to fund our expansion, promote our brands, take advantage of acquisition opportunities, develop or enhance services or respond to competitive pressures. Our limited experience outside the United States increases the risk that any international expansion efforts and operations will not be effective. One of our strategies is to expand our presence in international markets. Although we currently have offices in Israel and Web sites that directly serve the Canadian, French, Israeli and United Kingdom markets, we have only limited experience with operations outside the United States. Our primary international operations are in Israel, which carries additional risk for our business as a result of continuing hostilities there. Expansion into international markets requires management time and capital resources. In addition, we face the following additional risks associated with our expansion outside the United States: • challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences; • local competitors with substantially greater brand recognition, more users and more traffic than we have; • our need to create and increase our brand recognition and improve our marketing efforts internationally and build strong relationships with local affiliates; • longer payment cycles in some countries; • credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud in some countries; • different legal and regulatory restrictions among jurisdictions; 18 Table of Contents • political, social and economic instability; • potentially adverse tax consequences; and • higher costs associated with doing business internationally. Our international operations subject us to risks associated with currency fluctuations. Our foreign operations may subject us to currency fluctuations and such fluctuations may adversely affect our financial position and results. However, sales and expenses to date have occurred primarily in the United States. For this reason, we have not engaged in foreign exchange hedging. In connection with our planned international expansion, currency risk positions could change correspondingly and the use of foreign exchange hedging instruments could become necessary. Effects of exchange rate fluctuations on our financial condition, operations and profitability may depend on our ability to manage our foreign currency risks. There can be no assurance that steps taken by management to address foreign currency fluctuations will eliminate all adverse effects and, accordingly, we may suffer losses due to adverse foreign currency fluctuation. Our business could be significantly impacted by the occurrence of natural disasters and other catastrophic events. Our operations depend upon our ability to maintain and protect our network infrastructure, hardware systems and software applications, which are housed primarily at data centers located in Southern California and Utah that are managed by third parties. Our business is therefore susceptible to earthquakes, tsunamis and other catastrophic events, including acts of terrorism. We currently do not possess a “high availability” disaster recovery system. As a result, outages and downtime caused by natural disasters and other events out of our control, which affect our systems or data centers, could adversely affect our reputation, brands and business. We hold a fixed amount of insurance coverage, and if we were found liable for an uninsured claim, or claim in excess of our insurance limits, we may be forced to expend significant capital to resolve the uninsured claim. We contract for a fixed amount of insurance to cover potential risks and liabilities, including, but not limited to, property and casualty insurance, general liability insurance and errors and omissions liability insurance. If we decide to obtain additional insurance coverage in the future, it is possible that (1) we may not be able to get enough insurance to meet our needs; (2) we may have to pay very high premiums for the additional coverage; (3) we may not be able to acquire any insurance for certain types of business risk; or (4) we may have gaps in coverage for certain risks. This could leave us exposed to potential uninsured claims for which we could have to expend significant amounts of capital resources. Consequently, if we were found liable for a significant uninsured claim in the future, we may be forced to expend a significant amount of our operating capital to resolve the uninsured claim. Our services are not well-suited to many alternate Web access devices, and as a result the growth of our business could be negatively affected. The number of people who access the Internet through devices other than desktop and laptop computers, including mobile telephones and other handheld computing devices, has increased dramatically in the past few years, and we expect this growth to continue. The lower resolution, functionality and memory currently associated with such mobile devices may make the use of our services through such mobile devices more difficult and generally impairs the member experience relative to access via desktop and laptop computers. If we are unable to attract and retain a substantial number of such mobile device users to our online personals services or if we are unable to develop services that are more compatible with such mobile communications devices, our growth could be adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Industry We need to maintain or increase our number of average paying subscribers to maintain or increase our current level of revenue. The majority of our revenue is generated by internet users that pay us a subscription fee. One of our key performance metrics focuses on the average number of paying subscribers in a given period. The number of monthly average paying subscribers is calculated as the sum of the paying subscribers at the beginning and end of the month, divided by two. Average paying subscribers for periods longer than one month are calculated as the sum of the average paying subscribers for each month, divided by the number of months in the period. Internet users, in general, and users of online personals services specifically, freely navigate and use the services offered by a variety of Web sites. We cannot assure you that our monthly average subscriber numbers will remain at consistent levels, and they may decrease in the future, thus decreasing our revenue. In 2009, average paying subscribers decreased 11% and revenue also dropped 21% compared to 2008. If we do not constantly attract new paying subscribers at a faster rate than subscription terminations, our average paying subscribers will decrease and we will not be able to maintain or increase our current level of revenue. Our network is vulnerable to security breaches and inappropriate use by Internet users, which could disrupt or deter future use of our services. Concerns over the security of transactions conducted on the Internet and the privacy of users may inhibit the growth of the Internet and other online services generally, and online commerce services, like ours, in particular. To date, we have not experienced any material breach of our security systems; however, our failure to effectively prevent security breaches could significantly harm our business, reputation and results of operations and could expose us to lawsuits by state and federal consumer protection agencies, by governmental authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate, and by consumers. Anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information, including customer credit card and personal data, cause interruptions in our operations or damage our brand and reputation. Such breach of our security measures could involve the disclosure of personally identifiable information and could expose us to a material risk of litigation, liability or governmental enforcement proceeding. We cannot assure you that our financial systems and other technology resources are completely secure from security breaches or sabotage, and we have occasionally experienced security breaches and attempts at “hacking.” We may be required to incur significant additional costs to protect against security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. Any well-publicized compromise of our security or the security of any other Internet provider could deter people from using our services or the Internet to conduct transactions that involve transmitting confidential information or downloading sensitive materials, which could have a detrimental impact on our potential customer base. Computer viruses may cause delays or other service interruptions and could damage our reputation, affect our ability to provide our services and adversely affect our revenue. The inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could also expose us to a material risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. Moreover, if a computer virus affecting our system were highly publicized, our reputation could be significantly damaged, resulting in the loss of current and future members and paying subscribers. We face certain risks related to the physical and emotional safety of our members and paying subscribers. The nature of online personals services is such that we cannot control the actions of our members and paying subscribers in their communication or physical actions. There is a possibility that one or more of our members or paying subscribers could be physically or emotionally harmed following interaction with another one of our members or paying subscribers. We warn our members and paying subscribers that we do not and cannot screen other members and paying subscribers and, given our lack of physical presence, we do not take any action to ensure personal safety on a meeting between members or paying subscribers arranged following contact initiated via our Web sites. If an unfortunate incident of this nature occurred in a meeting of two people following contact initiated on one of our Web sites or a Web site of one of our competitors, any resulting negative publicity could 20 Table of Contents materially and adversely affect us or the online personals industry in general. Any such incident involving one of our Web sites could damage our reputation and our brands. This, in turn, could adversely affect our revenue and could cause the value of our common stock to decline. In addition, the affected members or paying subscribers could initiate legal action against us, which could cause us to incur significant expense, whether we were successful or not, and damage our reputation. We face risks of litigation and regulatory actions if we are deemed a dating service as opposed to an online personals service. We supply online personals services. In many jurisdictions, companies deemed dating service providers are subject to additional regulation, while companies that provide personals services are not generally subject to similar regulation. Because personals services and dating services can seem similar, we are exposed to potential litigation, including class action lawsuits, associated with providing our personals services. In the past, a small percentage of our members have alleged that we are a dating service provider, and, as a result, they claim that we are required to comply with regulations that include, but are not limited to, providing language in our contracts that may allow members to (1) rescind their contracts within a certain period of time, (2) demand reimbursement of a portion of the contract price if the member dies during the term of the contract and/or (3) cancel their contracts in the event of disability or relocation. If a court holds that we have provided and are providing dating services of the type the dating services regulations are intended to regulate, we may be required to comply with regulations associated with the dating services industry and be liable for any damages as a result of our past and present non-compliance. Three separate yet similar class action complaints were filed against us in state court alleging violations of dating service statutes—one in each of Illinois, New York and California. Although all of the complaints were dismissed and are no longer subject to appeal, the opinion in the Illinois case provided that we are subject to the Illinois Dating Services Act and, as such, our subscription agreements violate the act and are void and unenforceable. This ruling may subject us to potential liability for claims brought by the Illinois Attorney General or customers that have been injured by such violation of the statute. We intend to defend vigorously against any other such claims. However, no assurance can be given that these matters will be resolved in our favor and, depending on the outcome of these disputes, we may choose to alter our business practices. We are exposed to risks associated with credit card fraud and credit payment, which, if not properly addressed, could increase our operating expenses. We depend on continuing availability of credit card usage to process subscriptions and this availability, in turn, depends on acceptable levels of chargebacks and fraud performance. We have suffered losses and may continue to suffer losses as a result of subscription orders placed with fraudulent credit card data, even though the associated financial institution approved payment. Under current credit card practices, a merchant is liable for fraudulent credit card transactions when, as is the case with the transactions we process, that merchant does not obtain a cardholder’s signature. Our failure to adequately control fraudulent credit card transactions would result in significantly higher credit card-related costs and, therefore, increase our operating expenses and may preclude us from accepting credit cards as a means of payment. We face risks associated with our dependence on computer and telecommunications infrastructure. Our services are dependent upon the use of the Internet and telephone and broadband communications to provide high-capacity data transmission without system downtime. There have been instances where regional and national telecommunications outages have caused us, and other Internet businesses, to experience systems interruptions. Any additional interruptions, delays or capacity problems experienced with telephone or broadband connections could adversely affect our ability to provide services to our customers. The temporary or permanent 21 Table of Contents loss of all, or a portion, of the telecommunications system could cause disruption to our business activities and result in a loss of revenue. Additionally, the telecommunications industry is subject to regulatory control. Amendments to current regulations, which could affect our telecommunications providers, could disrupt or adversely affect the profitability of our business. In addition, if any of our current agreements with telecommunications providers were terminated, we may not be able to replace any terminated agreements with equally beneficial ones. There can be no assurance that we will be able to renew any of our current agreements when they expire or, if we are able to do so, that such renewals will be available on acceptable terms. We also do not know whether we will be able to enter into additional agreements or that any relationships, if entered into, will be on terms favorable to us. Our business depends, in part, on the growth and maintenance of the Internet, and our ability to provide services to our members and paying subscribers may be limited by outages, interruptions and diminished capacity of the Internet. Our performance will depend, in part, on the continued growth and maintenance of the Internet. This includes maintenance of a reliable network backbone with the necessary speed, data capacity and security for providing reliable Internet services. Internet infrastructure may be unable to support the demands placed on it if the number of Internet users continues to increase, or if existing or future Internet users access the Internet more often or increase their bandwidth requirements. In addition, viruses, worms and similar programs may harm the performance of the Internet. We have no control over the third-party telecommunications, cable or other providers of access services to the Internet that our members and paying subscribers rely upon. There have been instances where regional and national telecommunications outages have caused us to experience service interruptions during which our members and paying subscribers could not access our services. Any additional interruptions, delays or capacity problems experienced with any points of access between the Internet and our members could adversely affect our ability to provide services reliably to our members and paying subscribers. The temporary or permanent loss of all, or a portion, of our services on the Internet, the Internet infrastructure generally, or our members’ and paying subscribers’ ability to access the Internet could disrupt our business activities, harm our business reputation, and result in a loss of revenue. Additionally, the Internet, electronic communications and telecommunications industries are subject to federal, state and foreign governmental regulation. New laws and regulations governing such matters could be enacted or amendments may be made to existing regulations at any time that could adversely impact our services. Any such new laws, regulations or amendments to existing regulations could disrupt or adversely affect the profitability of our business. We are subject to burdensome government regulations and legal uncertainties affecting the Internet that could adversely affect our business. Legal uncertainties surrounding domestic and foreign government regulations could increase our costs of doing business, require us to revise our services, prevent us from delivering our services over the Internet or slow the growth of the Internet, any of which could increase our expenses, reduce our revenue or cause our revenue to grow at a slower rate than expected and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Laws and regulations related to Internet communications, security, privacy, intellectual property rights, commerce, taxation, entertainment, recruiting and advertising are becoming more prevalent, and new laws and regulations are under consideration by the United States Congress, state legislatures and foreign governments. For example, in recent years, legislation related to the use of background checks for users of online personals services was proposed in Ohio, Texas, California, Michigan, New Jersey, Florida and Virginia. The New Jersey legislature enacted such a law in 2008 and other state legislatures may still be considering the implementation of such legislation. The interpretation of the New Jersey statute as well as the enactment of any of these proposed laws could require us to alter our service offerings and could negatively impact our performance by making it more difficult and costly to obtain new subscribers and may also subject us to additional liability for failure to properly screen our subscribers. 22 Table of Contents Furthermore, in part as a result of current economic conditions, some states have begun to, and others may in the future, impose state taxes on services provided through the Internet, such as online personals, which will increase the cost of our services and could adversely affect our business. Any legislation and regulations enacted or newly enforced or restrictions arising from current or future government investigations or policy could dampen the growth in use of the Internet, generally, decrease the profitability of Internet related businesses and diminish the acceptance of the Internet as a communications, commercial, entertainment, recruiting and advertising medium. In addition to new laws and regulations being adopted, existing laws that are not currently being applied to the Internet may subsequently be applied to it, in some cases with a retroactive effect or penalty, and, in several jurisdictions, legislatures are considering laws and regulations that would apply to the online personals industry in particular. Many areas of law affecting the Internet and online personals remain unsettled, even in areas where there has been some legislative action. It may take years to determine whether and how existing laws such as those governing consumer protection, intellectual property, libel and taxation apply to the Internet or to our services. In the normal course of our business, we handle personally identifiable information pertaining to our members and paying subscribers residing in the United States and other countries. In recent years, many of these countries have adopted privacy, security and data protection laws and regulations intended to prevent improper uses and disclosures of personally identifiable information. In addition, some jurisdictions impose database registration requirements for which significant monetary and other penalties may be imposed for noncompliance. These laws may impose costly administrative requirements, limit our handling of information, and subject us to increased government oversight and financial liabilities. Privacy laws and regulations in the United States and foreign countries are subject to change and may be inconsistent, and additional requirements may be imposed at any time. These laws and regulations, the costs of complying with them, administrative fines for noncompliance and the possible need to adopt different compliance measures in different jurisdictions could materially increase our expenses and cause the value of our securities to decline. Risks Related to Owning Our Securities The price of our stock may be volatile, and if an active trading market for our stock does not develop, the price of our stock may suffer and decline. In July 2007, we completed the Scheme of Arrangement of Spark Networks plc to become the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary. The American Depositary Shares representing ordinary shares of Spark Networks plc began trading on the American Stock Exchange (now NYSE Amex) in February 2006 and our shares of common stock began trading in July 2007 after the completion of our Scheme of Arrangement. Prior to that, there was no public market for our securities in the United States. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that an active trading market will develop or be sustained or that the market price of our common stock will not decline. The price at which our common stock trades is likely to be highly volatile and may fluctuate substantially due to many factors, some of which are outside of our control. In addition, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price for the stock of many technology, communications and entertainment and media companies. Those market fluctuations were sometimes unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Any significant stock market fluctuations in the future, whether due to our actual performance or prospects or not, could result in a significant decline in the market price of our securities. We may implement stock repurchase plans, which may restrict our funds available for other actions and negatively affect the market price of our securities. In the past, we have implemented stock repurchase plans and may implement stock repurchase plans in the future. A stock repurchase plan may not have the effects anticipated by our board of directors and may instead harm the market price and liquidity of our securities. The full implementation of any repurchase plan could use a significant portion of our cash reserves, and this use of cash could limit our future flexibility to complete acquisitions of businesses or technology or other transactions. Implementation of a repurchase plan would also result in an increase in the percentage of common stock owned by our existing stockholders, and such increase 23 Table of Contents may trigger disclosure or other regulatory requirements for our larger stockholders. As a result, certain stockholders may liquidate a portion of their holdings, which may have a negative impact on the market price of our securities. Furthermore, repurchases of stock may affect the trading of our common stock to the extent we fail to satisfy continued-listing requirements of the exchange on which our stock trades, including those based on numbers of holders or public float of our common stock. A repurchase plan will also reduce the number of shares of our common stock in the market, which may impact the development of an active trading market in our stock, causing a negative impact on the market price of our stock. Our principal stockholders can exercise significant influence over us, and, as a result, may be able to delay, deter or prevent a change of control or other business combination. As of March 25, 2010, Great Hill Investors, LLC, North Run Advisors, LLC, Osmium Partners, LLC and Moab Capital Partners, LLC and their respective affiliates beneficially owned approximately, in the aggregate, 62.3% of our outstanding common stock. Great Hill Investors, LLC and its affiliates (“Great Hill”) became our largest stockholder on December 1, 2005 when it purchased an aggregate of 6,000,000 ordinary shares in four privately negotiated transactions and it subsequently acquired an additional 3,085,000 shares. Great Hill and its affiliates held an aggregate of 9,085,000 shares of common stock as of March 25, 2010. These stockholders possess significant influence over our company. Such ownership and control may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company, impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving our company or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. Furthermore, such ownership may have the effect of control over substantially all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors. Other than the arrangement to elect a director at the selection of Great Hill which affects some of these stockholders, as discussed below, we do not expect that these stockholders will vote together as a group. It should be noted that Great Hill Investors, LLC ownership information is based on a Schedule 13D/A filed with the SEC on March 2, 2010, North Run Advisors, LLC ownership information is based on a Schedule 13G filed with the SEC on February 17, 2009, Osmium Partners, LLC ownership information is based on a Schedule 13D filed with the SEC on March 9, 2010 and Moab Capital Partners, LLC ownership information is based on a Schedule 13G/A filed with the SEC on February 16, 2010. Our largest stockholder, Great Hill, also possesses a significant amount of voting power and an ability to elect a director of our company. As of March 25, 2010, Great Hill beneficially owned 9,085,000 shares of our common stock, or approximately 44.1% of our outstanding common stock, and has voting control of an aggregate of approximately 48.7% of our securities to elect a director of our company subject to the terms and conditions of the share purchase agreements entered into on December 1, 2005 with certain selling stockholders (collectively, the “Selling Stockholders”). Pursuant to the terms of the share purchase agreements with each of the Selling Stockholders, for so long as Great Hill collectively owns at least 10% or 5%, depending on the Selling Stockholder, each Selling Stockholder agreed that: • if at any time Great Hill notifies a Selling Stockholder of its desire and intention to designate a single director (“Great Hill Director”) in advance of any meeting of the stockholders for the election of directors or when any other approval is sought with respect to the election of directors, such Selling Stockholder agreed to vote all of its voting shares that are owned or held of record by such Selling Stockholder or to which it has voting power or can direct, restrict or control any such voting power (the “Remaining Shares”) to elect such Great Hill Director; and • if at any time Great Hill notifies a Selling Stockholder of its desire and intention to remove or replace a Great Hill Director or to fill a vacancy caused by the resignation of a Great Hill Director, such Selling Stockholder agreed to cooperate in causing the requested removal and/or replacement by voting in the appropriate manner. 24 Table of Contents Each Selling Stockholder also irrevocably granted, and appointed Michael A. Kumin, and any other person who shall be designated by Great Hill, as such Selling Stockholder’s proxy and attorney (with full power of substitution), to vote all of such Selling Stockholder’s Remaining Shares held at the time such consent is sought or meeting is held in any circumstances where a vote, consent or other approval is sought to elect a Great Hill Director. The covenants and obligations of each Selling Stockholder terminate after a Great Hill Director (together with any replacements therefore) has served a single, full term of office of three years, in accordance with the articles and memorandum of association, as in effect on December 1, 2005 when our parent entity was Spark Networks, plc. As a result of its voting arrangement with the Selling Stockholders, Great Hill is able to select a member of our board of directors at its discretion and is able to exercise significant influence over our company. This influence has the potential to delay, prevent, change or initiate a change in control, acquisition, merger or other transaction, such as a transaction to take the Company private. We have entered into a standstill agreement pursuant to which Great Hill and its affiliates may be permitted to acquire additional voting securities of our company in the future and may initiate and participate in any tender, takeover or exchange offer, other business combination or other transaction, such as taking our company private, any of which may be to the detriment of our stockholders. On December 1, 2005, we and Great Hill Equity Partners II, which is one of the affiliates of Great Hill, entered into a Standstill Agreement with a term of five years, unless terminated earlier by the agreement of the parties. Pursuant to the Standstill Agreement, Great Hill Equity Partners II agreed that it would not, other than through bona fide all cash offers made in accordance with the terms of the Standstill Agreement to all of the Company’s stockholders or stock repurchases or other actions initiated by the Company, acquire or seek to acquire beneficial ownership of any of our voting securities (or rights to acquire any class of our securities or any subsidiary thereof) or participate in any tender, takeover or exchange offer or other business combination, or any recapitalization, restructuring, dissolution or other extraordinary transaction if (1) prior to giving effect thereto, the Great Hill Group beneficially owns less than 60% of Total Voting Power and (2) after giving effect, the Great Hill Group would beneficially own more than 29.9% of Total Voting Power. As such, Great Hill may, in accordance with the terms of the Standstill Agreement, participate in and initiate any tender, takeover or exchange offer, other business combination or other transaction, such as taking our company private, any of which may be to the detriment of our stockholders. On March 2, 2010, the Company granted a partial waiver of the Standstill Agreement to the extent necessary to allow the special committee of the board of directors to receive, discuss and negotiate a proposal by Great Hill to purchase all of the outstanding shares of common stock of the Company not owned by Great Hill, at a cash purchase price of $3.10 per share. The waiver will automatically (but not retroactively) terminate if the Company, at the direction of the board of directors or the special committee, decides to discontinue discussions with Great Hill. We have never paid any dividend and do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. To date, we have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and currently intend to retain any future earnings for funding growth. We do not anticipate paying any dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, you should not rely on an investment in our stock if you require dividend income. Capital appreciation, if any, of our stock may be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. 25 Table of Contents Our charter documents and our stockholder rights plan may have anti-takeover effects that could prevent a change in control, which may cause our stock price to decline. Our certificate of incorporation or our bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if closing such a transaction would be beneficial to our stockholders. We are authorized to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock. This preferred stock may be issued in one or more series, the terms of which may be determined at the time of issuance by our board of directors without further action by stockholders. The terms of any series of preferred stock may include voting rights (including the right to vote as a series on particular matters), preferences as to dividend, liquidation, conversion and redemption rights and sinking fund provisions. No preferred stock is currently outstanding. The issuance of any preferred stock could materially adversely affect the rights of the holders of our common stock, and therefore, reduce the value of our common stock. In particular, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with, or sell our assets to, a third party and thereby preserve control by the present management. Although pursuant to a stockholder resolution passed by the Company’s stockholders in 2009, the Company will take the steps necessary in connection with the next annual meeting to reorganize the board of directors into one class of directors elected annually, our certificate of incorporation currently provides that, subject to the rights of any series of preferred stock to elect directors, the board of directors is to be divided into three classes of directors with each class elected to serve for a term of three years. As a result of a classified board of directors, not all members of the board are elected at one time, which makes changes in the composition of the board of directors more difficult, and thus a potential change in control of a corporation a lengthier and more difficult process. In addition, there are no cumulative voting rights. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws also contain provisions that could have the effect of discouraging potential acquisition proposals or making a tender offer or delaying or preventing a change in control, including changes a stockholder might consider favorable. In particular, the certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as applicable, among other things: • provide the board of directors with the ability to alter the bylaws without stockholder approval; • provide for an advance notice procedure with regard to the nomination of candidates for election as directors and with regard to business to be brought before a meeting of stockholders; and • provide that vacancies on the board of directors may be filled by a majority of directors in office, although less than a quorum. We have also adopted a stockholder rights plan pursuant to which each share of common stock also has a “right” attached to it. The rights are not exercisable except upon the occurrence of certain takeover-related events—most importantly, the acquisition by a third party (the “Acquiring Person”) of more than 30% of our outstanding voting shares if the Acquiring Person has not concurrently made a tender offer to acquire all outstanding shares of common stock. Once triggered, the rights entitle the stockholders, other than the Acquiring Person, to purchase additional shares of common stock at a 50% discount to their fair market value. The effect of triggering the rights is to expose the Acquiring Person to severe dilution of its ownership interest, as the shares of common stock of our company (or any surviving corporation) are offered to all of the stockholders other than the Acquiring Person at a steep discount to their market value. Such provisions may have the effect of discouraging a third-party from acquiring Spark Networks, Inc. even if doing so would be beneficial to its stockholders. These provisions are expected to discourage certain types of coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids and to encourage persons seeking to acquire control of Spark Networks, Inc. to first negotiate with its Board. These provisions of Delaware law also may discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us, which may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. 26 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 