D. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors, in addition to the other information and financial data contained in this annual report, should be considered carefully in evaluating our company and its business. Risks related to our company and our business Most of our products and planned products are based upon new and unproven technologies. We are currently developing products based upon BioSilicon™, a biocompatible and biodegradable form of the element silicon, for multiple applications across many sectors of healthcare, including controlled slow release drug delivery, diagnostics, orthopedics and tissue engineering. BioSilicon is a new and unproven technology. The successful development and market acceptance of BioSilicon is subject to many risks. These risks include the potential for ineffectiveness, lack of safety, unreliability, failure to receive necessary regulatory clearances or approvals and the emergence of superior or equivalent products, as well as the effect of changes in future general economic conditions. Our failure to develop products based on BioSilicon that overcome these risks would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have recently acquired CDS, (now renamed pSivida Inc.) which develops drug delivery products based upon its proprietary AEON and CODRUG drug delivery systems. To date pSivida Inc. has developed two such products, Vitrasert and Retisert, which have been approved by the FDA for treatment of two sight-threatening eye diseases. However, these technologies may prove useful in other products which would be subject to many of the same risks as described above for BioSilicon. 4 Table of Contents We have a history of losses; we expect to continue to incur losses; and we may never become profitable. pSivida was formed in 2000. As primarily a research and development company, we have incurred operating losses in every year of existence. Under A-GAAP we have incurred a net loss of A$14.7 million, A$3.7 million and A$2.8 million for the years ended June 30, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. As of June 30, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit under A-GAAP of A$27.9 million. We have not achieved profitability and expect to continue to incur net losses through at least 2007, and we may incur losses beyond that time, particularly if we are not successful in having BrachySil approved and widely marketed by that time. Even if BrachySil is approved and is being marketed at some point in 2007 or beyond, we may not achieve sufficient sales of BrachySil or any other product to become profitable at that time or at any other time. The extent of future losses and whether or how long it may take for us to achieve profitability are uncertain. We recently acquired CDS which has incurred net losses in each of its last five fiscal years. As a result of the acquisition, we expect to receive royalties from sales of Vitrasert, CDS’ first commercial product. However, such sales have declined in each of the past four years, and we do not expect that they will comprise a significant portion of our future revenue. We also expect to earn royalties from future sales of Retisert, but we are unable to predict the amount of such future royalties. CDS earned royalties from Retisert sales by Bausch & Lomb in the six months ended December 31, 2005 in an amount expected to be less than $750,000. We rely heavily upon patents, trade secrets and other proprietary technologies and any future claims that our rights to such intellectual property are invalid or limited could seriously harm our business. Protection of intellectual property rights is crucial to our business, since that is how we keep others from copying the innovations which are central to our existing and future products. Our success is dependent on whether we can obtain patents, defend our existing patents and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties. We currently have 36 patents and over 90 pending patent applications, including patents and pending applications covering BioSilicon and various uses thereof. This does not include the patents and patent applications we acquired in the acquisition of CDS. We expect to aggressively patent and protect our proprietary technologies. However, we cannot be sure that any additional patents will be issued to us as a result of our pending or future patent applications or that any of our patents will withstand challenges by others. If we were determined to be infringing any third party patent, we could be required to pay damages, alter our products or processes, obtain licenses or cease certain operations. We may not be able to obtain any required licenses on commercially favorable terms, if at all. Our failure to obtain a license for any technology that we may require to commercialize BioSilicon or our ophthalmic drug delivery products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, many of the laws of foreign countries in which we intend to operate may treat the protection of proprietary rights differently from, and may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as, laws in Australia, the United States and Patent Co-operation Treaty countries. Prior art may reduce the scope or protection of, or invalidate, patents. Previously conducted research or published discoveries may prevent patents from being granted, invalidate issued patents or narrow the scope of any protection obtained. Reduction in scope of protection or invalidation of our licensed or owned patents, or our inability to obtain patents, may enable other companies to develop products that compete with our products and product candidates on the basis of the same or similar technology. As a result, our patents and those of our licensors may not provide any or sufficient protection against competitors. While we have not been and we are not currently involved in any litigation over intellectual property, such litigation may be necessary to enforce any patents issued or licensed to us or to determine the scope and validity of third party proprietary rights. We may also be sued by a third party alleging that we infringe its intellectual property rights. Any intellectual property litigation would be likely to result in substantial costs to us and diversion of our efforts. If our competitors claim technology also claimed by us and if they prepare and file patent applications in the U.S., we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark office to determine priority of invention, which could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our efforts. Any such litigation or interference proceedings, regardless of the outcome, could be expensive and time consuming. Litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, requiring disputed rights to be licensed from third parties or require us to cease using certain technologies and, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and technology that are not protected by patents to maintain our competitive position. We try to protect this information by entering into confidentiality agreements with parties that have access to it, such as our corporate partners, collaborators, employees, and consultants. Any of these parties could breach these agreements and disclose our confidential information, or our competitors might learn of the information in some other way. If any material trade secret, know-how or other technology not protected by a patent were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor, our competitive position could be materially harmed. We rely, in part, on confidentiality agreements with employees, advisors, vendors and consultants to protect our proprietary expertise. These agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies in the event of a breach. In addition, our un-patented proprietary technological expertise may otherwise become known or independently discovered by competitors. 5 Table of Contents Our ability to commercialize our products depends on our ability to achieve regulatory approvals. Our current and future activities are and will be subject to regulation by governmental authorities in the U.S., Europe, Singapore and other countries. Before we can manufacture, market and sell any of our products, we must first obtain approval from the FDA and/or foreign regulatory authorities. In order to obtain these approvals, pre-clinical studies and clinical trials must demonstrate that each of our products is safe for human use and effective for its targeted disease. Our proposed products are in various stages of pre-clinical and clinical testing. If clinical trials for any of these products are not successful, that product cannot be manufactured and sold and will not generate revenue from sales. Clinical trials for our product candidates may fail or be delayed by many factors, including the following: • inability to attract clinical investigators for trials; • inability to recruit patients in sufficient numbers or at the expected rate; • adverse side effects; • failure of the trials to demonstrate a product’s safety or efficacy; • failure to meet FDA requirements for clinical trial design or for demonstrating efficacy for a particular product; • inability to follow patients adequately after treatment; • changes in the design or manufacture of a product; • inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of materials for use in clinical trials; and • governmental or regulatory delays. Results from pre-clinical testing and early clinical trials often do not accurately predict results of later clinical trials. Data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical activities are susceptible to varying interpretations which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Data from pre-clinical studies, early clinical trials and interim periods in multi-year trials are preliminary and may change, and final data from pivotal trials for such products may differ significantly. Adverse side effects may develop that delay, limit or prevent the regulatory approval of products, or cause their regulatory approvals to be limited or even rescinded. Additional trials necessary for approval may not be undertaken or may ultimately fail to establish the safety and efficacy of proposed products. The FDA may not approve proposed products for manufacture and sale. In addition to testing, the FDA imposes various requirements on manufacturers and sellers of products under its jurisdiction, such as labeling, manufacturing practices, record keeping and reporting requirements. The FDA also may require post-marketing testing and surveillance programs to monitor a product’s effects. Furthermore, changes in existing regulations or the adoption of new regulations could prevent us from obtaining, or affect the timing of, future regulatory approvals. At present Vitrasert and Retisert are our only products that have been approved for sale in the U.S. for specific purposes. BrachySil and other product candidates utilizing BioSilicon have not been approved and their approval in the future remains uncertain. In addition, the FDA may determine to regulate it as a drug, in which case we would incur significant additional cost and time in order to achieve the required regulatory approvals. Any product approvals we achieve could also be withdrawn for failure to comply with regulatory standards or due to unforeseen problems after the product’s marketing approval. We have a limited ability to market our products ourselves, and if we are unable to find marketing partners, or our marketing partners do not successfully market our products then our business will suffer. We presently have no marketing or sales staff. Achieving market acceptance for the use of BioSilicon and other products (including drug delivery products originated by CDS) will require extensive and substantial efforts by experienced personnel as well as expenditure of significant funds. We may not be able to establish sufficient capabilities necessary to achieve market penetration. We intend to license and/or sell BioSilicon and our other products to companies who will be responsible in large part for sales, marketing and distribution of products utilizing BioSilicon and our other products. The amount and timing of resources which may be devoted to the performance of their contractual responsibilities by these licensees are not expected to be within our control. These partners may not perform their obligations. Moreover, our licensees may have rights of termination under our agreements with them. Exercise of termination rights by those parties may leave us temporarily or permanently without any marketing or sales resources which may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, our interests may not continue to coincide with those of our partners, and our partners may develop independently or with third parties products or technologies which could compete with our products. Further, disagreements over rights or technologies or other proprietary interests may occur. pSivida Inc., formerly CDS, has exclusively licensed its technology with respect to Vitrasert, Retisert and certain other ophthalmic uses to Bausch & Lomb, and with respect to Medidur for diabetic macular edema or DME and certain other ophthalmic uses to Alimera Sciences. Bausch & Lomb is responsible for funding and managing the development and commercialization of all products under its agreement with pSivida Inc. and can terminate the agreement at any time upon 90 days’ written notice. Alimera Sciences and pSivida Inc. are jointly funding the development of products licensed under that agreement, and Alimera Sciences may terminate its agreement with pSivida Inc. if pSivida Inc. fails to make a development payment or may terminate the agreement with respect to a particular product if pSivida Inc. notifies Alimera that it has abandoned the product or upon 30 days’ notice following pSivida Inc.’ failure to make development payments exceeding $2 million for that product. Either Bausch & Lomb or Alimera Sciences may decide not to continue with or commercialize any or all of the licensed products, change strategic focus, pursue alternative technologies, develop competing products or terminate their agreements with pSivida Inc. While Bausch & Lomb has significant experience in the ophthalmic field and substantial resources, there is no assurance as to whether and the extent to which that experience and those resources will be devoted to pSivida Inc.’s technologies. Alimera Sciences was only incorporated in June 2003 and has limited resources. Because we do not currently have sufficient funding or internal capabilities to develop and commercialize these products and proposed products, decisions, actions, breach or termination of these agreements by Bausch & Lomb or Alimera Sciences could delay or stop the development or commercialization of Retisert, Medidur for DME or other of our products licensed to such entities. Our business strategy includes entering into collaborative agreements for the development and commercialization of our product candidates. The curtailment or termination of any of these agreements could adversely affect our business and our ability to develop and commercialize our products and proposed products and find our operations. The success of these and future collaboration agreements will depend heavily on the experience, resources efforts and activities of our collaborators. Our collaborators have and are expected to have significant discretion in making these decisions. Risks that we face in connection with its collaboration strategy include: • collaboration agreements are, and are intended to be, subject to termination under various circumstances, including, in some cases, on short notice and without cause; • we are required, and expect to be required, under our collaboration agreements not to conduct specified types of research and development in the field that is the subject of the collaboration. These agreements may have the effect of limiting the areas of research and development that we can pursue; • our collaborators may develop and commercialize, either alone or with others, products that are similar to or competitive with our products; • our collaborators may change the focus of their development and commercialization efforts. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have historically re-evaluated and changed their priorities for many reasons. The ability of our products to reach their potential could be limited if our collaborators decrease or fail to increase spending related to such products; and • our collaborators may lack the funding or experience to develop and commercialize our products successfully or may otherwise fail to do so. To the extent that we choose not to or we are unable to enter into future license agreements with marketing and sales partners, we may experience increased capital requirements to develop the ability to market and sell future products. We may not be able to market or sell our technology or future products independently in the absence of such agreements. Our markets are competitive and our competitors could develop more effective products, making our products less competitive, uneconomical or obsolete, thereby impacting our future operations. We are or plan to be engaged in the rapidly evolving and competitive fields of drug delivery, tissue engineering, diagnostics and orthopedics technologies. Our competitors include many major pharmaceutical companies and other biotechnology, drug delivery, diagnostics and medical products companies. Many of our potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technological, research and development, marketing and personnel resources. Our competitors may succeed in developing alternate technologies and products that are more effective, easier to use, more economical than those which we have developed or that would render our technologies and products obsolete and non-competitive in these fields. These 6 Table of Contents competitors may also have greater experience in developing products, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals or clearances and manufacturing and marketing such products or technologies. We believe that pharmaceutical, drug delivery and biotechnology companies, research organizations, governmental entities, universities, hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and individual scientists are seeking to develop the drugs, therapies, products, approaches or methods to treat our targeted diseases or their underlying causes. For many of our targeted diseases, competitors have alternate therapies that are already commercialized or are in various stages of development ranging from discovery to advanced clinical trials. Any of these drugs, therapies, products, approaches or methods may receive government approval or gain market acceptance more rapidly than our products and proposed products, may offer therapeutic or cost advantages or may cure our targeted diseases or their underlying causes completely, which could reduce demand for our products and proposed products and could render them noncompetitive or obsolete. For example, sales of pSivida Inc.’s Vitrasert product for the treatment of CMV retinitis, a disease which affects people with late-stage AIDS, have declined significantly, because of new treatments that delay the onset of late-stage AIDS. Our competitive position is based upon our ability to: • create and maintain scientifically-advanced technology and proprietary products and processes; • attract and retain qualified personnel; • develop safe and efficacious products, alone or in collaboration with others; • obtain patent or other protection for our products and processes; • obtain required government approvals on a timely basis; • manufacture products on a cost-effective basis; and • successfully market products. If we are not successful in meeting these goals, our business could be adversely affected. We face risks in expanding our efforts beyond our core area of experience and expertise. We plan to expand our focus outside of our initial areas of experience and expertise to seek to broaden our product pipeline and will require additional internal expertise or external collaborations in areas in which we currently do not have internal resources and expertise. Such expertise and collaborations may be difficult to obtain. We are currently focused on targeted controlled drug delivery with a specialty, through pSivida Inc., on ophthalmic drug delivery and, through pSiMedica and pSiOncology, on brachytherapy and other controlled delivery mechanisms utilizing BioSilicon. We have begun to expand our focus into diagnostics (through AION Diagnostics) and the food industry (through pSiNutria) and plan to expand into other areas at a later time. In connection with the foregoing, we may have to enter into collaboration arrangements with others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies or products that we would otherwise pursue independently. We may be unable to acquire the necessary expertise or enter into collaboration agreements on acceptable terms. Problems associated with international business operations could affect our ability to manufacture and sell our products. We currently maintain offices in Australia, the UK, Singapore and (following our acquisition of CDS) the U.S.; BioSilicon is produced for us in Germany and the UK; we are conducting product trials in Singapore; we have research and development facilities in the U.K. and the U.S; and we intend to license and/or sell products in most major world healthcare markets. A number of risks are inherent in our international strategy. In order for us to license and manufacture our products, we must obtain country-specific regulatory approvals or clearances or comply with regulations regarding safety and quality in a variety of jurisdictions. We may not be able to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals or clearances in such countries and we may be required to incur significant costs in obtaining or maintaining foreign regulatory approvals or clearances. In addition, our operations and revenues are subject to a number of risks associated with foreign commerce, including the following: • managing foreign distributors; • staffing and managing foreign operations; • political and economic instability; • foreign currency exchange fluctuations; • foreign tax laws, tariffs and freight rates and charges; • timing and availability of export licenses; • inadequate protection of intellectual property rights in some countries; and • obtaining required governmental approvals. 7 Table of Contents There are risks relating to product manufacturing which could cause delays in product development and commercialization and impact our future profitability. Our ability to conduct timely preclinical and clinical research and development programs, obtain regulatory approvals, commercialize our product candidates and fulfill our contract manufacturing obligations to others will depend, in part, upon our ability to manufacture our products, either directly or through third parties, in accordance with U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and other regulatory requirements. We currently have BioSilicon production capability at our facilities in the UK, which may be augmented where required by QinetiQ’s UK production facilities for use in internal and collaborative research. BrachySil is currently manufactured under contract in accordance with applicable FDA regulations by Hosokawa Micron Group, Atomising Systems Ltd, HighForce Ltd and AEA Technology QSA GmbH. If we are unable to manufacture BioSilicon or BrachySil or other product candidates by ourselves or acquire BioSilicon from QinetiQ or acquire BioSilicon or BrachySil or other product candidates from third parties, we would be unable to proceed with or could experience delays in development and commercialization of our proposed products. We may not be able to manufacture our proposed products successfully or in a cost-effective manner at our own or third party facilities. If we are unable to develop our own manufacturing facilities or to obtain or retain third-party manufacturing on acceptable terms, we may not be able to conduct certain future preclinical and clinical testing or to supply commercial quantities of our products. Our recently acquired subsidiary pSivida Inc. also has limited manufacturing experience and has exclusively licensed Bausch & Lomb the rights to manufacture Vitrasert, Retisert and other products covered by its license agreement with pSivida Inc., and Alimera Sciences, the rights to manufacture Medidur for DME, if approved for marketing, and other products covered by its license agreement with pSivida Inc. Our current reliance on third party manufacturers for some of our products entails risks, including: • the possibility that third parties may not comply with the FDA’s current good manufacturing practices, regulations, other regulatory requirements, and those of similar foreign regulatory bodies, and employ adequate quality assurance practices; • supply disruption, deterioration in product quality or breach of a manufacturing or license agreement by the third party because of factors beyond CDS’ control; • the possible termination or non-renewal of a manufacturing or licensing agreement with a third party at a time that is costly or inconvenient to CDS; and • inability to identify or qualify an alternative manufacturer in a timely manner, even if contractually permitted to do so. 8 Table of Contents Fast track status for Medidur may not actually lead to faster development, regulatory review or approval. The FDA has granted fast track designation to Medidur for the treatment of DME. Although this designation makes this product eligible for expedited approval procedures, it does not ensure faster development, review or approval compared to the conventional FDA procedures. Further, the FDA may withdraw the fast track designation if it determines that the designation is no longer supported by emerging data from clinical trials or if it determines that the criteria for the designation is no longer satisfied. Our proposed products will be subject to the uncertainty of third-party reimbursement and health care reform measures which may limit market acceptance. In both domestic and foreign markets, our ability to commercialize our products will depend, in part, upon the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors, such as government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the price and cost-effectiveness of medical products. If our products are not considered cost-effective, third-party payors may limit 9 Table of Contents reimbursement. Government and other third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new therapeutic products approved for marketing by the FDA and by refusing, in some cases, to provide any coverage for uses of approved products for disease indications for which the FDA has not granted marketing approval. If government and third-party payors do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for uses of our products, the market acceptance of our products would be limited. There have been a number of U.S. federal and state proposals during the last few years to subject the pricing of pharmaceuticals to government control and to make other changes to the health care system of the U.S. It is uncertain what legislative proposals will be adopted or what actions federal, state or private payors for health care goods and services may take in response to any health care reform proposals or legislation. We cannot predict the effect health care reforms may have on our business. The loss of some or all of our key personnel could harm our business. We are dependent upon the principal members of our management and scientific staff. In addition, we believe that our future success in developing BioSilicon and other products and achieving a competitive position will depend to a large extent on whether we can attract and retain additional qualified management and scientific personnel. There is strong competition for such personnel within the industry in which we operate and we may not be able to continue to attract such personnel either to Malvern in the United Kingdom or to Massachusetts, where our research and development is conducted. As we do not have large numbers of employees and our products are unique and highly specialized, the loss of the services of one or more of the senior management or scientific staff, or the inability to attract and retain additional personnel and develop expertise as needed, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may be subject to product liability suits, and we may not have sufficient insurance to cover damages. The testing, manufacturing, and future marketing and sale of the products utilizing BioSilicon and our other products involves risks that product liability claims may be asserted against us or our licensees. Our current clinical trial insurance may not be adequate or continue to be available, and we may be unable to obtain adequate product liability insurance on reasonable commercial terms, if at all. In the event clinical trial insurance is not adequate, our ability to continue with planned research and development in the relevant area could be negatively impacted. We will need additional capital to conduct our operations and develop our products, and our ability to obtain the necessary funding is uncertain. We expect to require substantial additional capital resources in order to conduct our operations and develop our products. The timing and degree of any future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • the accuracy of the assumptions underlying our estimates for our capital needs in the near and long term; • continued scientific progress in our research and development programs; • the magnitude and scope of our research and development programs; • our ability to maintain and establish strategic arrangements for research, development, clinical testing, manufacturing and marketing; • our progress with preclinical and clinical trials; • the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; and • the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining, defending and enforcing patent claims. 10 Table of Contents If and when it is required, we will attempt to acquire additional funding through strategic collaborations, public or private equity financings, capital lease transactions or other financing sources that may be available. Additional financing may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Additional equity financings could result in significant dilution to stockholders. Further, in the event that additional funds are obtained through arrangements with collaborative partners, these arrangements may require us to relinquish rights to some of our technologies, product candidates or products that we would otherwise seek to develop and commercialize ourselves. If sufficient capital is not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. See “— Risks related to our recent acquisition of CDS and other recent transactions — If the price of our ADSs does nor rise above the conversion price by the time payment on the convertible note becomes due, we may have to repay all or part of the funds received in the convertible note financing.” We have experienced rapid growth and changes in our business, and our failure to manage this and any future growth and changes could harm our business. As evidenced by our purchase of the remaining shares of pSiMedica on August 4, 2004, the incorporation and planned spin-off of AION Diagnostics, the incorporation of pSiNutria Limited and our acquisition of CDS on December 30, 2005, our business is rapidly changing. See “— Risks related to our recent acquisition of CDS and other recent transactions.” We expect to continue increasing the number of our employees, and we may suffer if we do not manage and train our new employees effectively. Further, our efforts span various geographies. Continued rapid growth and operation in multiple locations may place significant strains on our managerial, financial and other resources. The rate of any future expansion, in combination with our complex technologies and products, may demand a level of managerial effectiveness in anticipating, planning, coordinating and meeting our operational needs which we may not be able to successfully provide. In addition, if we make additional acquisitions or divestitures, we could encounter difficulties that harm our business. We may acquire companies, products or technologies that we believe to be complementary to our business. If we do so, we may have difficulty integrating the acquired personnel, operations, products or technologies. In addition, acquisitions may distract our management and employees and increase our expenses, which could harm our business. We may also sell businesses or assets as part of our strategy or if we receive offers from third parties. If we do so, we may sell an asset or business for less than its full value or may lose valuable opportunities attendant to such asset or business. If we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations, our ability to manufacture and commercialize products may be adversely affected. Medical and biopharmaceutical research and development involves the controlled use of hazardous materials, such as radioactive compounds and chemical solvents. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations in the U.S. and abroad governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of such materials and waste products. We could be subject to both criminal liability and civil damages in the event of an improper or unauthorized release of, or exposure of individuals to, hazardous materials. In addition, claimants may sue us for injury or contamination that results from our use or the use by third parties of these materials, and our liability may exceed our total assets. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations is expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development or production efforts or harm our operating results. Risks related to our being headquartered and incorporated outside of the United States You may have difficulty in effecting service of legal process and enforcement of judgments against us or our management. We are a public company limited by shares, registered and operating under the Australian Corporations Act 2001. Several of our directors and most of our officers reside outside the U.S. Substantially all or a substantial portion of the assets of those persons are located outside the U.S. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service on such persons in the U.S. or to enforce, in foreign courts, judgments against such persons obtained in U.S. courts and predicated on the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the U.S. Furthermore, a large percentage of our directly owned assets are located outside the U.S., and, as such, any judgment obtained in the U.S. against pSivida may not be collectible within the U.S. There is doubt as to the enforceability in the Commonwealth of Australia, in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts, of civil liabilities predicated solely upon 11 Table of Contents federal or state securities laws of the U.S., especially in the case of enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts where the defendant has not been properly served in Australia. As a foreign private issuer we do not have to provide you with the same information as an issuer of securities based in the U.S. Because we are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of the rules under the Exchange Act, we are exempt from certain provisions of that law that are applicable to U.S. public companies, including (i) the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the SEC of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K; (ii) the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations in respect of a registered security; and (iii) the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and liability for insiders who profit from trades made in a short period of time. Thus, you are not afforded the same protections or information which would be made available to you were you investing in a U.S. public corporation. In accordance with the requirements of the Australian Stock Exchange, we disclose annual and semi-annual results. Our results are presented in accordance with A-GAAP. Our annual results, including a reconciliation to U.S. GAAP, are audited, and our semi-annual results undergo a limited review by our independent auditors. Subject to certain exceptions, we are also required to immediately disclose to the Australian Stock Exchange any information concerning us that a reasonable person would expect to have a material effect on the price or value of our shares. This would include matters such as (i) any major new developments relating to our business which are not public knowledge and may lead to a substantial movement in our share price; (ii) any changes in our board of directors; (iii) any purchase or redemption by pSivida of its own equity securities; (iv) interests of directors in our shares or debentures; and (v) changes in our capital structure. We are required to provide our semi-annual results and other material information that we disclose in Australia in the U.S. under the cover of Form 6-K. Nevertheless, this information is not the same and may not be as much information as would be made available to you were you investing in a U.S. public corporation. Risks related to our stock and our ADSs If we are a passive foreign investment company, holders of our shares and ADSs may suffer adverse tax consequences. U.S. holders of our ADSs can experience unfavorable tax consequences if we are treated as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, for any year during which the U.S. holder owns our ADSs. For example, if a U.S. holder disposes of an ADS at a gain, and during any year of its holding period we were a PFIC, then such gain would be taxable as ordinary income and not as capital gain and would be subject to additional taxation based on the length of time the U.S. holder held such stock. Most of the tax consequences of our being a PFIC can be mitigated if the U.S. holder makes certain elections as described in this annual report in Item 10.E under “U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations.” In general, we will be a PFIC for any taxable year if either (1) 75% or more of our gross income in the taxable year is passive income, or (2) 50% or more of the average value of our assets in the taxable year produces, or is held for the production of, passive income. We do not yet know whether we will be classified as a PFIC in the year ending June 30, 2006 or thereafter. Most of the tax consequences of pSivida being a PFIC can be mitigated if the U.S. holder makes certain mitigating elections as described in Item 10.E of this annual report. In the event we are classified as a PFIC, we intend to provide U.S. holders with sufficient information to enable them to make a mitigating election if so desired. However, we may fail to provide such information, and if we do, you may not be aware of our status as a PFIC and may be subject to additional taxes and penalties. Holders of ADSs may have limited rights relative to holders of our Ordinary Shares in certain circumstances. The rights of holders of ADSs with respect to voting of ordinary shares and the right to receive certain distributions may be limited in certain respects by the deposit agreement entered into by us and Citibank, N.A. For example, although ADS holders are entitled under the deposit agreement, subject to any applicable provisions of Australian law and of our constitution, to instruct the depositary as to the exercise of the voting rights pertaining to 12 Table of Contents the ordinary shares represented by the American Depositary Shares, and the depositary has agreed that it will try, as far as practical, to vote the ordinary shares so represented in accordance with such instructions, ADS holders may not receive notices sent by depositary in time to ensure that the depositary will be able to vote the ordinary shares. This means that holders of ADSs may not be able to exercise their right to vote. In addition, under the deposit agreement, the depositary has the right to restrict distributions to holders of the ADSs in the event that it is unlawful or impractical to make such distributions. We have no obligation to take any action to permit distributions to holders of our American Depositary Receipts, or ADRs. As a result, holders of ADRs may not receive distributions made by us. Our stock price is volatile and can fluctuate significantly based on events both within and outside our control; our trading volume may affect the liquidity of our ADSs. Since December 2000, the price of our ordinary shares has ranged from A$0.09 to A$1.44 per share, and since January 27, 2005, the price of our ADSs has ranged from US$4.15 to US$12.14. The price of our common shares and ADSs may be affected by developments directly affecting our business and by developments out of our control or unrelated to pSivida. The biotechnology sector in particular and the stock market generally are vulnerable to abrupt changes in investor sentiment. Prices of securities and trading volume of companies in the biotechnology industry, including ours, can swing dramatically in ways unrelated or that bear a disproportionate relationship to operating performance. Our share and ADS prices and their trading volume may fluctuate based a number of factors including, but not limited to: • clinical trial results and other product and technological developments and innovations; • FDA and other governmental regulatory actions, receipt and timing of approvals of our proposed products, and any denials and withdrawals of approvals; • competitive factors including new product ideas and technologies, clinical trial results and approvals of competitive products in our markets; • advancements with respect to treatment of the diseases targeted by our proposed products; • developments relating to collaborative partners including execution and termination of agreements, achievement of milestones and receipt of payments; • availability and cost of capital and our financial and operating results; • changes in reimbursement policies or other practices related to our proposed products or the pharmaceutical industry generally; • meeting, exceeding or failing to meet analysts’ or investors’ expectations, and changes in evaluations and recommendations by securities analysts; • economic, industry and market conditions, changes or trends; and • other factors unrelated to us and the biotechnology industry. In addition, low trading volume may increase the volatility of the price of our ADSs. Trading volume in our ordinary shares on other markets has not been historically high, and trading volume of our ADSs on the NASDAQ National Market has also been low. Further, because each of our ADSs represents ten of our ordinary shares, trading volume in our ADSs may be lower than that for our ordinary shares. A thin trading market could cause the price of our ADSs to fluctuate significantly more than the stock market as a whole. For example, trades involving a relatively small number of our ADSs may have a greater impact on the trading price for our ADSs than would be the case if their trading volume were higher. Accordingly, holders of our ADSs may not be able to liquidate a position in our ADSs in the desired time or at the desired price. The fact that we do not expect to pay cash dividends may lead to decreased prices for our stock. We have never paid a cash dividend on our Ordinary Shares and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividend. We intend to retain future cash earnings, if any, for reinvestment in the development and expansion of our business. Our convertible note agreement limits our ability to pay dividends. 13 Table of Contents Future issuances and sales of our stock could dilute your ownership and cause our stock price to decline. As of December 31, 2005, we have outstanding options to purchase 31,169,162 of our ordinary shares, representing 8.1% of the total outstanding ordinary shares. In 2005, we raised capital through the issuance of 665,000 ADSs and warrants to acquire 133,000 ADSs and issued a convertible note currently convertible into 2,112,676 ADSs together with warrants to acquire an additional 633,803 ADSs. In addition, under certain circumstances, the convertible note will become convertible into a larger number of ADSs and the accrued interest on the principal amount of the note may be converted, in either case, potentially resulting in the issuance of a substantially larger number of ADSs. We issued a further 15,983,661 ADSs to common and preferred stockholders of Control Delivery Systems, Inc. in our acquisition of that company. Exercise and conversion of these options, warrants and convertible securities would dilute existing shareholders. Further, we intend to continue to finance our operations through the issuance of equity securities, if feasible. Certain of our shareholders own a significant percentage of our ordinary shares and therefore may be able to influence our business in ways that are less beneficial to you. Our executive officers, directors (including the officers and directors of our subsidiaries) and their affiliates beneficially own or control approximately 15.20% of our outstanding ordinary shares (based on the number of our ordinary shares outstanding on December 31, 2005 and assuming the issuance of shares upon the exercise of options vested or vesting within 60 days of December 31, 2005). As a result, if our executive officers and directors and their affiliates were all to vote in the same way, they would have the ability to exert significant influence over our board of directors and how we operate our business. The concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company. If we fail to comply with internal controls evaluations and attestation requirements our stock price could be adversely affected. We are subject to United States securities laws, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations adopted by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to such Act. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the related regulations, we are required to perform an evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting and have our independent auditor publicly attest to this evaluation beginning in the year ending June 30, 2007. We will shortly commence the evaluation and expect to complete it in the first quarter of 2007. We expect internal control evaluations and attestation requirements to be time-consuming and expensive. If we fail to complete the evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting in time, if we identify material weaknesses in these internal controls or if our independent accountant does not timely attest to our evaluation, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and decreased public confidence in our internal controls, which may adversely affect the market price of our stock. Risks related to our recent acquisition of CDS and other recent transactions The following risk factors relate to our December 30, 2005 acquisition of CDS, as well as two recently completed transactions: (1) our US$4.3 million private placement structured as a private investment in public equity, referred to herein as the PIPE, and (2) our US$15 million convertible note financing, referred to herein as the convertible note financing. For a description of the CDS acquisition, the PIPE and the convertible note financing, see Item 8B, “Significant Changes.” We may fail to integrate our operations successfully with the operations of CDS. As a result, pSivida and CDS may not achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger, which could adversely affect the price of ADSs. We entered into the merger agreement and consummated the merger with the expectation that the merger will result in benefits to the combined companies, including the opportunities to combine the two companies’ technologies, products and product candidates and the opportunity for pSivida to establish a substantial presence in the U.S. which would facilitate access to U.S. markets. However, these expected benefits may not be fully realized. Failure of the combined company to meet the challenges involved with successfully integrating the personnel, products, technology and research and development operations of the two companies following the merger or to realize any of the other anticipated benefits of the merger, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations as well as on that of our subsidiaries, including CDS (now pSivida Inc.). These integration efforts may be difficult and time consuming, especially considering the highly technical and complex nature of each company’s products. The challenges involved in this integration include the following: • coordinating research and development operations in a rapid and efficient manner; • combining platform technologies of disparate sources; • demonstrating to collaboration partners that the merger will not result in adverse changes in technology focus or development standards; • retaining key alliances with collaboration partners; • absorbing costs and delays in implementing overlapping systems and procedures, including financial accounting systems and accounting principles; 14 Table of Contents • persuading employees that our business culture and that of CDS are compatible, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees; and • overcoming potential distraction of management attention and resources from the business of the combined company. We may not successfully integrate our operations and technology with those of CDS in a timely manner, or at all; we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the merger to the extent, or in the timeframe, anticipated, which could significantly harm our business. Our operating results could be adversely affected as a result of purchase accounting treatment, and the corresponding impact of amortization or impairment of other intangibles relating to the merger, if the results of the combined company do not offset these additional expenses. Under Australian Equivalents to International Financial Reporting Standards, or A-IFRS (effective from July 1, 2005 — See Item 5A, "Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Applicable to pSivida"), we will account for the merger using the purchase method of accounting. Under purchase accounting, we will record the market value of our ADSs, cash, and other consideration issued in connection with the merger and the amount of direct transaction costs as the cost of acquiring the business of CDS. We will allocate that cost to the individual assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including identifiable intangible assets, based on their respective fair values. Intangible assets generally will be amortized over a 12 year period on a straight line basis. Based on our preliminary allocation of the purchase price, which is subject to change based on the actual outcome of an independent valuation, the amount allocated to goodwill is expected to be approximately A$30.6 million, the amount allocated to identifiable intangible assets is expected to be approximately A$120.0 million, giving rise to a gross deferred tax liability of approximately A$48.0 million (approximately A$29.1 million net of deferred tax assets), and approximately A$2.7 million is expected to be allocated to in-process research and development. Goodwill is not subject to amortization but is subject to at least an annual impairment analysis, which may result in an impairment charge if the carrying value of the cash-generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated exceeds its recoverable value. If identifiable intangible assets were amortized in equal quarterly amounts over a 12 year period following completion of the merger, the amortization attributable to these items would be approximately A$2.5 million per quarter and A$10.0 million per fiscal year. As a result, purchase accounting treatment of the merger could increase our net loss or decrease our net income in the foreseeable future, which could have a material and adverse effect on the future market value of our ADSs. pSivida has incurred significant costs in connection with the merger. We estimate that we have incurred direct transaction costs of approximately US$2.6 million (approximately A$3.6 million) associated with the merger, which will be included as a part of the total purchase consideration for accounting purposes. In addition, prior to completing the merger, CDS incurred direct transaction costs for accounting, investment banking and legal services of approximately US$2.4 million (approximately A$3.3 million), which are to be expensed in the period in which they are incurred. We believe the combined entity may incur charges to operations, which currently are not reasonably estimable, in the quarter in which the merger was completed or the following quarters, to reflect costs associated with integrating the two companies and that such charges may be material. Regulatory agencies, private parties, state attorneys general and other antitrust authorities may raise challenges to the merger on antitrust grounds. We believe that the merger could be completed without making any filings with the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice, or the Antitrust Division, or any other governmental authority whether under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, or the HSR Act, or otherwise and without waiting for the expiration of any waiting period requirements. However, the FTC and the Antitrust Division frequently scrutinize the legality under the antitrust laws of transactions like the merger, and at any time after the completion of the merger, the FTC or the Antitrust Division could take any action under the antitrust laws as it deems necessary or desirable in the public interest, including seeking the divestiture of our substantial assets or those of CDS. In addition, certain private parties, as well as state attorneys general and other antitrust authorities, may challenge the transaction under antitrust laws under certain circumstances. In addition, the merger may be subject to the antitrust laws of Australia or other foreign jurisdictions. Anti-competitive mergers or acquisitions in Australia are regulated under sections 50 and 50A of the Commonwealth Trade Practices Act, or TPA, which generally prohibits any acquisition of shares or assets which is likely to have the 15 Table of Contents effect of substantially lessening competition in a market in Australia. The Australian antitrust regulator, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission, or ACCC, may on its own initiative apply to an Australian Court under that law in order to block a merger, or to obtain orders for the divestiture of assets, or for other remedies. A private party may also apply to an Australian Court under that law for a more limited range of remedies. There can be no assurance that a challenge to the merger on antitrust grounds will not be made, or, if such a challenge is made, what the result will be. If CDS’s former stockholders sell substantial amounts of ADSs after the merger, the market price of ADSs may decline. The resale by former CDS stockholders of pSivida ADSs after the merger could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. In connection with the merger, we have issued approximately 16,000,000 ADSs. While our ADSs will not initially be freely tradable, we have agreed to register their resale within six months (subject to certain extensions) for stockholders entering into the registration rights agreement. Therefore, approximately 16,000,000 pSivida ADSs issued in the merger are expected to become freely tradable under U.S. securities laws six months from the closing date of the merger, which was December 30, 2005. However, certain shareholders are subject to lock-ups for as long as 9 months after the closing date of the merger. If the price of our ADSs does not rise above the conversion price by the time payment on the convertible note becomes due, we may have to repay all or part of the funds received in the convertible note financing. On November 16, 2005, we issued a subordinated convertible promissory note in the principal amount of US$15 million (A$19.7 million) to an institutional investor. The convertible note must be repaid in three payments of US$5 million each which are due on or about November 16, 2006, May 16, 2007 and November 16, 2007 respectively, unless the convertible note is sooner converted into ADSs. The note is convertible into our ADSs at a conversion price of US$7.10 per ADS, subject to adjustment based on certain events or circumstances, including the market price of ADSs for the ten trading days ending on May 5, 2006. The average trading price of our ADSs during the ten trading days ending on the day that is four trading days prior to the closing of the CDS acquisition was US$5.087. If the price of our ADSs does not rise above the conversion price by the time any payment on the convertible note becomes due or if certain other requirements are not met, the right of pSivida to force conversion may not be exercisable and we may have to repay up to US$5 million of principal, plus accrued interest at any one or all of these three dates. Given the cash needs of our business and the lack of current revenue, we cannot predict whether or not we will be able to meet this obligation if called upon to do so, or what impact this could have on our business and operations. If we fail to register the resale of ADSs by the applicable deadlines, we may be subject to substantial penalties. In connection with the acquisition of CDS, the PIPE and the convertible note financing, we have entered into agreements to register with the SEC the resale of ADSs issued to investors and CDS stockholders. Our obligation to register ADSs in each of these transactions is subject to a deadline, which may be extended in certain situations, and our failure to meet this deadline results in monetary penalties against pSivida. With respect to the PIPE, we are required to complete the registration no later than one hundred and eighty days from the date of the definitive agreements related to the PIPE, which places the deadline on or about February 23, 2006. If we fail to cause the registration statement registering the resale of ADSs to become effective beginning one month after this deadline, we may be subject to monthly cash penalties equal to one percent of the PIPE purchase price, or US$43,225 (A$59,200), until such registration statement becomes effective. With respect to the convertible note financing, we are required to complete the initial registration no later than one hundred and eighty days from the date of the applicable agreement, which places the deadline on or about May 16, 2006. Failure to comply with this deadline may result in pSivida having to pay monthly cash penalties equal to one and one-half percent of the convertible note purchase price, or US$225,000 (A$308,200), until the registration statement becomes effective. With respect to the acquisition of CDS, we are required to complete the registration no later than one hundred and eighty days from the closing of the merger, which would be on or about June 30, 2006. Failure to comply with this deadline may result in pSivida having to pay monthly cash penalties equal to one percent of the average closing price of the ADSs during the ten trading days ending on the day that is four trading days prior to the closing of the merger, multiplied by the number of outstanding unregistered ADSs, until the registration statement becomes effective. The average trading price of ADSs during the 10-day period just described was US$5.087, which indicates that such penalties could amount to US$813,089 (A$1,113,700) per month. Each of these registration deadlines is subject to extensions in certain circumstances. Once the registrations are completed, we are obligated to keep them effective for specified periods, and failure to do so may subject us to additional penalties. 16 Table of Contents 