ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. This discussion highlights some of the risks which may affect future operating results. These are the risks and uncertainties we believe are most important for you to consider. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, which we currently deem immaterial or which are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or telecommunications and/or technology companies in general, may also impair our business operations. If any of these risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could materially suffer. Risks Relating to Our Business and Operations Our operating company subsidiaries have historically generated losses over the past several fiscal years and have been cash flow negative for a number of the past fiscal years. On a consolidated basis, including the operations of these subsidiaries after their acquisitions, we generated negative income and had negative cash flow from operations during the most recent year. We may continue to generate losses in the future and be cash flow negative during future periods. Prior to the Acquisitions, the Company’s predecessor entities, formerly GII and ETT, experienced net losses and operating losses for the past several fiscal years. GII used $914,349 and $272,350 in cash for operations in its fiscal years ended September 30, 2004 and 2005, respectively. In its fiscal year 2006, GII generated $476,374 in cash from operations. GII incurred net losses of $223,560, $444,964, and $350,981 for its fiscal years ended September 30, 2004, 2005, and 2006, respectively. For the period from October 1, 2006 through October 15, 2006, the date on which we completed the Acquisitions, GII achieved a net income of $35,002 and was a net user of $108,852 of cash for that period. ETT generated cash flow from operations of $1,234,754 and $242,071 during 2004 and 2005, respectively. ETT incurred net losses of $490,198 and $231,000 for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2005, respectively. For the period from January 1, 2006 through October 15, 2006, ETT incurred a net loss of $1,268,146 and used $1,488,751 in cash to fund operations. For the period from January 1, 2006 through October 15, 2006, ETT incurred a net loss of $1,268,146 and used $1,488,751 in cash to fund its operations. For the years ended 2007 and 2006, including results of the operating company subsidiaries following the Acquisitions, the Company incurred net losses of $4,251,792 and $1,847,281, respectively, and (used) or generated, respectively, ($1,563,823) and $175,245 cash from operations. We may generate losses in the future and/or be cash flow negative. If we are not able to achieve or sustain profitability, the market price of our securities may decline. 9 Our debt may hinder our growth and put us at a competitive disadvantage. In November 2007, the Company issued new debt and restructured its existing debt so that as of December 31, 2007, we had $8.8 million in debt with a scheduled maturity date of December 31, 2010. This debt may have important consequences, including the following: • the ability to obtain additional financing for acquisitions, working capital, investments, and capital or other expenditures could be impaired, or financing may not be available on acceptable terms; • a portion of our cash flow may be used to make principal and interest payments on this debt, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations and future business opportunities; • a substantial decrease in cash flows from operating activities or an increase in expenses could make it difficult to meet debt service requirements and force modifications to operations; • if we do not have enough cash flow in the future to make interest or principal payments on this debt, we may be required to refinance all or a portion of this debt, or to raise additional capital, which refinancing or additional capital might not be available on acceptable terms, if at all; and • substantial debt may make us more vulnerable to a downturn in business or the economy generally. We might require additional capital to support business growth, and this capital might not be available on favorable terms, or at all. Our operations or expansion efforts may require substantial additional financial, operational, and managerial resources. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $3.3 million in cash and cash equivalents. We may have insufficient cash to fund our working capital or other capital requirements (including our outstanding debt obligations), and may be required to raise additional funds to continue or expand our operations. If we are required to obtain additional funding in the future, we may have to sell assets, seek debt financing, or obtain additional equity capital. Additional capital may not be available to us, or may only be available on terms that adversely affect our existing stockholders, or that restrict our operations. For example, if we raise additional funds through issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences, and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. In addition, certain promissory notes that we have issued contain anti-dilution provisions related to their conversion into our common stock. The issuance of new equity securities or convertible debt securities could trigger an anti-dilution adjustment pursuant to these promissory notes, and our existing stockholders would suffer dilution if these notes are converted into shares of our common stock. We are obligated to repay several debt instruments that mature during 2010. If we are unable to raise additional capital or to renegotiate the terms of that debt, we may be unable to make the required principal payments with respect to one or more of these debt instruments. In the aggregate, we are obligated to pay approximately $4.8 million in principal, plus accrued interest, in December 2010 with respect to promissory notes we issued in November 2007 to certain holders of our promissory notes and certain other accredited investors. In addition, we are obligated to pay $4.0 million in principal, plus accrued interest, with respect to an additional set of promissory notes issued to the former GII shareholders that also mature in December 2010. We are also obligated to pay accrued interest on several earlier dates with respect to the latter set of promissory notes. If we are unable to raise additional capital or arrange other refinancing options, we may be unable to make the principal payments and/or payments of accrued interest when due with respect to one or more of these promissory notes. Our failure to comply with covenants in our credit facility could result in our indebtedness being immediately due and payable and the loss of our assets. In March 2008 we obtained a credit facility from Silicon Valley Bank. This credit facility is secured by a pledge of substantially all of our assets, as well as by a pledge of 67% of the capital stock of our U.K. subsidiary. If we fail to pay any of our indebtedness under this credit facility when due, or if we breach any of the other covenants in the 10 instruments governing the credit facility, it may result in one or more events of default. An event of default under our credit facility could permit the lender to declare all amounts owing to be immediately due and payable and, if we were unable to repay any indebtedness owed, the lender could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. We depend on several large customers, and the loss of one or more of these clients, or a significant decrease in total revenues from any of these customers, would likely significantly reduce our revenue and income. A sizeable portion of our service revenues come from a limited number of clients. For the year ended December 31, 2007, our four largest customers accounted for approximately 33% of our total service revenues. If we were to lose one or more of our large clients, or if one or more of our large clients were to reduce the services purchased from us or otherwise renegotiate the terms on which services are purchased from us, our revenues could decline and our results of operations would suffer. If our customers elect to terminate their agreements with us, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our services are sold under agreements that generally have initial terms of between one and three years. Following the initial terms, these agreements generally automatically renew for successive month-to-month, quarterly, or annual periods, but can be terminated by the customer without cause with relatively little notice during a renewal period. In addition, certain government customers may have rights under federal law with respect to termination for convenience that can serve to minimize or eliminate altogether the liability payable by that customer in the event of early termination. Our customers may elect to terminate their agreements as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with the services they are receiving, their ability to continue their operations due to budgetary or other concerns, and the availability and pricing of competing services. If customers elect to terminate their agreements with us, our business, financial condition, and results of operation may be adversely affected. Competition in the industry in which we do business is intense and growing, and our failure to compete successfully could make it difficult for us to add and retain customers or increase or maintain revenues. The markets in which we operate are rapidly evolving and highly competitive. We currently or potentially compete with a variety of companies, including some of our transport suppliers, with respect to their products and services, including global and regional telecommunications service providers such as AT&T, British Telecom, NTT, Level 3, Qwest and Verizon, among others. The industry in which we operate is consolidating, which is increasing the size and scope of our competitors. Competitors could benefit from assets or businesses acquired from other carriers or from strategic alliances in the telecommunications industry. New entrants could enter the market with a business model similar to ours. Our target markets may support only a limited number of competitors. Operations in such markets with multiple competitive providers may be unprofitable for one or more of such providers. Prices in both the long-distance business and the data transmission business have declined significantly in recent years and may continue to decline. Many of our potential competitors have certain advantages over us, including: • substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, and other resources, including brand or corporate name recognition; • substantially lower cost structures, including cost structures of facility-based providers who have significantly reduced debt and other obligations through bankruptcy or other restructuring proceedings; • larger client bases; • longer operating histories; • more established relationships in the industry; and 11 • larger geographic presence. Our competitors may be able to use these advantages to: • develop or adapt to new or emerging technologies and changes in client requirements more quickly; • take advantage of acquisitions and other opportunities more readily; • enter into strategic relationships to rapidly grow the reach of their networks and capacity; • devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their services; • adopt more aggressive pricing and incentive policies, which could drive down margins; and • expand their offerings more quickly. If we are unable to compete successfully against our current and future competitors, our revenues and gross margins could decline and we could lose market share, which could materially and adversely affect our business. Because our business consists primarily of reselling telecommunications network capacity purchased from third parties, the failure of our suppliers and other service providers to provide us with services, or disputes with those suppliers and service providers, could affect our ability to provide quality services to our customers and have an adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. The majority of our business consists of integrating and reselling network capacity purchased from traditional telecommunications carriers. Accordingly, we will be largely dependent on third parties to supply us with services. Occasionally in the past, our operating companies have experienced delays or other problems in receiving services from third party providers. Disputes also arise from time to time with suppliers with respect to billing or interpretation of contract terms. Any failure on the part of third parties to adequately supply us or to maintain the quality of their facilities and services in the future, or the termination of any significant contracts by a supplier, could cause customers to experience delays in service and lower levels of customer care, which could cause them to switch providers. Furthermore, disputes over billed amounts or interpretation of contract terms could lead to claims against us, some of which if resolved against us could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and/or financial condition. Suppliers may also attempt to impose onerous terms as part of purchase contract negotiations. For example, in its first few years of existence, certain suppliers required one of our operating companies to agree to onerous terms such as the granting of a security lien with respect to that operating company’s accounts receivable, and certain other collateral and clauses providing for the opportunity to match other suppliers’ offers. The operating company renegotiated such terms with the applicable suppliers prior to consummation of the Acquisitions. Although we know of no pending or threatened claims with respect to past compliance with any such terms, claims asserting any past noncompliance, if successful, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and/or financial condition. Moreover, to the extent that key suppliers were to attempt to impose such provisions as part of future contract negotiations, such developments could have an adverse impact on the company’s operations. Finally, some of our suppliers are potential competitors. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain use of facilities or services in a timely manner or on terms acceptable and in quantities satisfactory to us. Industry consolidation may affect our ability to obtain services from suppliers on a timely or cost-efficient basis. A principal method of connecting with our customers is through local transport and last mile circuits we purchase from incumbent carriers such as AT&T and Verizon, or competitive carriers such as Time Warner Telecom, XO, or Level 3. In recent years, AT&T, Verizon, and Level 3 have acquired competitors with significant local and/or long-haul network assets. Industry consolidation has occurred on a lesser scale as well through mergers and acquisitions involving regional or smaller national or international competitors. Generally speaking, we believe that a marketplace with multiple supplier options for transport access is important to the long-term availability of competitive pricing, service quality, and carrier responsiveness. It is unclear at this time what the long-term impact of such consolidation will be, or whether it will continue at the same pace as it has in recent years; we cannot guarantee that we will continue to be able to obtain use of facilities or services in a timely manner or on terms acceptable and in quantities satisfactory to us from such suppliers. 12 Failure to satisfy term or volume commitments agreed to with suppliers could affect operating margins. We typically enter into contracts with suppliers that are matched with respect to term and volume with the sale of services to underlying customers. Nevertheless, we have entered into contracts with two suppliers under which it is subject to monthly minimum purchase commitments that are effective as of December 31, 2007, in exchange for improved pricing from the suppliers. We may also enter into additional contracts with similar commitments in the future. Since each contract’s inception through December 31, 2007, we have had sufficient customer demand to satisfy its minimum purchase commitments with each of those suppliers, but we cannot provide assurance that in the future our customer demand will meet or exceed such purchase levels with each vendor. If we are unable to resell any of the network availability we have committed to purchase, our operating margins could be adversely affected. In addition, from time to time, we purchase capacity under multiple-year commitments from several vendors in order to secure more competitive pricing. These multiple-year purchase commitments are not, in all cases, matched with multiple-year supply agreements to customers. In these cases, if a customer were to disconnect its service before the multiple-year term ordered from the vendor expired, and if we were unable to find another customer for the capacity, we would be subject to an early termination liability, which could adversely impact our operating margin. As of December 31, 2007, the company’s total potential early termination liability, if all such services terminated as of that date, and if we could not obtain a waiver of termination liability (by contractual right or otherwise) with respect to such terminations, was approximately $376,000. The networks on which we depend may fail, which would interrupt the network availability they provide and make it difficult to retain and attract customers. Our customers depend on our ability to provide network availability with minimal interruption. The ability to provide this service depends in part on the networks of third party transport suppliers. The networks of transport suppliers may be interrupted as a result of various events, many of which they cannot control, including fire, human error, earthquakes and other natural disasters, disasters along communications rights-of-way, power loss, telecommunications failures, terrorism, sabotage, vandalism, or the financial distress or other event adversely affecting a supplier, such as bankruptcy or liquidation. We may be subject to legal claims and be liable for losses suffered by customers due to our inability to provide service. If our network failure rates are higher than permitted under the applicable customer contracts, we may incur significant expenses related to network outage credits, which would reduce our revenues and gross margins. Our reputation could be harmed if we fail to provide a reasonably adequate level of network availability, and in certain cases, customers may be entitled to seek to terminate their contracts with us in case of prolonged or severe service disruptions or other outages. System disruptions could cause delays or interruptions of our services, which could cause us to lose customers or incur additional expenses. Our success depends on our ability to provide reliable service. Although we have attempted to design our network services to minimize the possibility of service disruptions or other outages, in addition to risks associated with third party provider networks, our services may be disrupted by problems on our own systems, including events beyond our control such as terrorism, computer viruses, or other infiltration by third parties that affect our central offices, corporate headquarters, network operations centers, or network equipment. Such events could disrupt our service, damage our facilities, and damage our reputation. In addition, customers may, under certain contracts, have the ability to terminate services in case of prolonged or severe service disruptions or other outages. Accordingly, service disruptions or other outages may cause us to, among other things, lose customers and could harm our results of operations. If the products or services that we market or sell do not maintain market acceptance, our results of operations will be adversely affected. Certain segments of the telecommunications industry are dependent on developing and marketing new products and services that respond to technological and competitive developments and changing customer needs. We cannot assure you that our products and services will gain or obtain increased market acceptance. Any 13 significant delay or failure in developing new or enhanced technology, including new product and service offerings, could result in a loss of actual or potential market share and a decrease in revenues. If carrier and enterprise connectivity demand does not continue to expand, we may experience a shortfall in revenues or earnings or otherwise fail to meet public market expectations. The growth of our business will be dependent, in part, upon the increased use of carrier and enterprise connectivity services and our ability to capture a higher proportion of this market. Increased usage of enterprise connectivity services depends on numerous factors, including: • the willingness of enterprises to make additional information technology expenditures; • the availability of security products necessary to ensure data privacy over the public networks; • the quality, cost, and functionality of these services and competing services; • the increased adoption of wired and wireless broadband access methods; • the continued growth of broadband-intensive applications; and • the proliferation of electronic devices and related applications. If the demand for carrier and enterprise connectivity services does not continue to grow, we may not be able to grow our business, achieve profitability, or meet public market expectations. Our long sales and service deployment cycles require us to incur substantial sales costs that may not result in related revenues. Our business is characterized by long sales cycles, which are often in the range of 60 days or more, between the time a potential customer is contacted and a customer contract is signed. Furthermore, once a customer contract is signed, there is typically an extended period of between 30 and 120 days before the customer actually begins to use the services, which is when we begin to realize revenues. As a result, we may invest a significant amount of time and effort in attempting to secure a customer, which investment may not result in any revenues. Even if we enter into a contract, we will have incurred substantial sales-related expenses well before we recognize any related revenues. If the expenses associated with sales increase, if we are not successful in our sales efforts, or if we are unable to generate associated offsetting revenues in a timely manner, our operating results will be negatively affected. Because much of our business is international, our financial results may be affected by foreign exchange rate fluctuations. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we generated approximately 54% of our revenue from business conducted outside the United States. As such, our financial results are subject to fluctuations in the exchange rates of the currencies of the countries in which we operate. Because much of our business is international, we may be subject to local taxes, tariffs, or other restrictions in foreign countries, which may reduce our profitability. Revenues from our foreign subsidiaries, or other locations where we provide or procure services internationally, may be subject to additional taxes in some foreign jurisdictions. Additionally, some foreign jurisdictions may subject us to additional withholding tax requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls, or other restrictions on foreign earnings. Any such taxes, tariffs, controls, and other restrictions imposed on our foreign operations may increase our costs of business in those jurisdictions, which in turn may reduce our profitability. The ability to implement and maintain our databases and management information systems is a critical business requirement, and if we cannot obtain or maintain accurate data or maintain these systems, we might be unable to cost-effectively provide solutions to our customers. To be successful, we must increase and update information in our databases about network pricing, capacity, and availability. Our ability to provide cost-effective network availability and access cost management depends 14 upon the information we collect from our transport suppliers regarding their networks. These suppliers are not obligated to provide this information and could decide to stop providing it to us at any time. Moreover, we cannot be certain that the information that these suppliers share with us is accurate. If we cannot continue to maintain and expand the existing databases, we may be unable to increase revenues or to facilitate the supply of services in a cost-effective manner. Furthermore, we are in the process of reviewing, integrating, and augmenting our management information systems to facilitate management of client orders, client service, billing, and financial applications. Our ability to manage our businesses could be materially adversely affected if we fail to successfully and promptly maintain and upgrade the existing management information systems. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, competitors may be able to use our technology or trademarks, which could weaken our competitive position. We own certain proprietary programs, software, and technology. However, we do not have any patented technology that would preclude competitors from replicating our business model; instead, we rely upon a combination of know-how, trade secret laws, contractual restrictions, and copyright, trademark and service mark laws to establish and protect our intellectual property. Our success will depend in part on our ability to maintain or obtain (as applicable) and enforce intellectual property rights for those assets, both in the United States and in other countries. Although our Americas operating company has registered some of its service marks in the United States, we have not otherwise applied for registration of any marks in any other jurisdiction. Instead, with the exception of the few registered service marks in the United States, we rely exclusively on common law trademark rights in the countries in which we operate. We may file applications for patents, copyrights and trademarks as our management deems appropriate. We cannot assure you that these applications, if filed, will be approved, or that we will have the financial and other resources necessary to enforce our proprietary rights against infringement by others. Additionally, we cannot assure you that any patent, trademark, or copyright obtained by us will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented, and the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States or the member states of the European Union. Finally, although we intend to undertake reasonable measures to protect the proprietary assets of our combined operations, we cannot guarantee that we will be successful in all cases in protecting the trade secret status of certain significant intellectual property assets. If these assets should be misappropriated, if our intellectual property rights are otherwise infringed, or if a competitor should independently develop similar intellectual property, this could harm our ability to attract new clients, retain existing customers, and generate revenues. Intellectual property and proprietary rights of others could prevent us from using necessary technology to provide our services or otherwise operate our business. We utilize data and processing capabilities available through commercially available third-party software tools and databases to assist in the efficient analysis of network engineering and pricing options. Where such technology is held under patent or other intellectual property rights by third parties, we are required to negotiate license agreements in order to use that technology. In the future, we may not be able to negotiate such license agreements at acceptable prices or on acceptable terms. If an adequate substitute is not available on acceptable terms and at an acceptable price from another software licensor, we could be compelled to undertake additional efforts to obtain the relevant network and pricing data independently from other, disparate sources, which, if available at all, could involve significant time and expense and adversely affect our ability to deliver network services to customers in an efficient manner. Furthermore, to the extent that we are subject to litigation regarding the ownership of our intellectual property or the licensing and use of others’ intellectual property, this litigation could: • be time-consuming and expensive; • divert attention and resources away from our daily business; • impede or prevent delivery of our products and services; and 15 • require us to pay significant royalties, licensing fees, and damages. Parties making claims of infringement may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to provide our services and could cause us to pay substantial damages. In the event of a successful claim of infringement, we may need to obtain one or more licenses from third parties, which may not be available at a reasonable cost, if at all. The defense of any lawsuit could result in time-consuming and expensive litigation, regardless of the merits of such claims, and could also result in damages, license fees, royalty payments, and restrictions on our ability to provide our services, any of which could harm our business. We may incur operational and management inefficiencies if we acquire new businesses or technologies, and our results of operations could be impaired. To further our strategy, we may seek to acquire additional businesses and technologies that we believe will complement the existing businesses. Any such acquisitions would likely involve some or all of the following risks: • difficulty of assimilating acquired operations and personnel and information systems; • potential disruption of our ongoing business; • increased indebtedness to finance the acquisitions; • possibility that we may not realize an acceptable return on our investment in these acquired companies or assets; • diversion of resources; • difficulty of maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures, and policies; • risks of entering markets in which we have little or no experience; and • potential impairment of relationships with employees, suppliers, or clients. We may need to complete transactions of this kind in order to remain competitive. We cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain any required financing or regulatory approvals for these transactions or that these transactions will occur. Our efforts to develop new service offerings may not be successful, in which case our revenues may not grow as we anticipate or may decline. The market for telecommunications services is characterized by rapid change, as new technologies are developed and introduced, often rendering established technologies obsolete. For our business to remain competitive, we must continually update our service offerings to make new technologies available to our customers and prospects. To do so, we may have to expend significant management and sales resources, which may increase our operating costs. The success of our potential new service offerings is uncertain and would depend on a number of factors, including the acceptance by end-user customers of the telecommunications technologies which would underlie these new service offerings, the compatibility of these technologies with existing customer information technology systems and processes, the compatibility of these technologies with our then-existing systems and processes, and our ability to find third-party vendors that would be willing to provide these new technologies to us for delivery to our users. If we are unsuccessful in developing and selling new service offerings, our revenues may not grow as we anticipate, or may decline. If we do not continue to train, manage and retain employees, clients may significantly reduce purchases of services. Our employees are responsible for providing clients with technical and operational support, and for identifying and developing opportunities to provide additional services to existing clients. In order to perform these activities, our employees must have expertise in areas such as telecommunications network technologies, network design, network implementation, and network management, including the ability to integrate services offered by multiple telecommunications carriers. They must also accept and incorporate training on our systems and databases 16 developed to support our operations and business model. Employees with this level of expertise tend to be in high demand in the telecommunications industry, which may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified employees. If we fail to train, manage, and retain our employees, we may be limited in our ability to gain more business from existing clients, and we may be unable to obtain or maintain current information regarding our clients’ and suppliers’ communications networks, which could limit our ability to provide future services. The regulatory framework under which we operate could require substantial time and resources for compliance, which could make it difficult and costly for us to operate the businesses. In providing certain interstate and international telecommunications services, we must comply, or cause our customers or carriers to comply, with applicable telecommunications laws and regulations prescribed by the FCC and applicable foreign regulatory authorities. In offering services on an intrastate basis, we may also be subject to state laws and to regulation by state public utility commissions. Our international services may also be subject to regulation by foreign authorities and, in some markets, multinational authorities, such as the European Union. The costs of compliance with these regulations, including legal, operational, and administrative expenses, may be substantial. In addition, delays in receiving or failure to obtain required regulatory approvals or the enactment of new or adverse legislation, regulations, or regulatory requirements may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flow. If we fail to obtain required authorizations from the FCC or other applicable authorities, or if we are found to have failed to comply, or are alleged to have failed to comply, with the rules of the FCC or other authorities, our right to offer certain services could be challenged and/or fines or other penalties could be imposed on us. Any such challenges or fines could be substantial and could cause us to incur substantial legal and administrative expenses as well; these costs in the forms of fines, penalties, and legal and administrative expenses could have a material adverse impact on our business and operations. Furthermore, we are dependent in certain cases on the services other carriers provide, and therefore on other carriers’ abilities to retain their respective licenses in the regions of the world in which they operate. We are also dependent, in some circumstances, on our customers’ abilities to obtain and retain the necessary licenses. The failure of a customer or carrier to obtain or retain any necessary license could have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct operations. Future changes in regulatory requirements or new interpretations of existing regulatory requirements may impair our ability to provide services, or may reduce our profitability. Many of the laws and regulations that apply to providers of telecommunications services are subject to frequent changes and different interpretations and may vary between jurisdictions. Changes to existing legislation or regulations in particular markets may limit the opportunities that are available to enter into markets, may increase the legal, administrative, or operational costs of operating in those markets, or may constrain other activities, including our ability to complete subsequent acquisitions, or purchase services or products, in ways that we cannot anticipate. Because we purchase telecommunications services from other carriers, our costs and manner of doing business can also be adversely affected by changes in regulatory policies affecting these other carriers. Required regulatory approvals may interfere with or delay potential future corporate transactions. Because certain portions of our business are regulated, and require that we obtain licenses to conduct such business, we are or may be required to obtain the approval of the FCC and certain state and foreign regulators before completing certain types of transactions such as changes in ownership, acquisitions of other regulated companies, sales of all or substantial parts of our business, issuances of stock, and incurrence of certain debt obligations. The regulations and approval requirements imposed on these types of transactions differ between jurisdictions. If the approvals required to complete any future transactions cannot be obtained, or if substantial delays in obtaining such approvals are encountered, it may impair our ability to enter into and/or consummate other transactions on favorable terms (if at all). Such events could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. 17 We depend on key personnel to manage our businesses effectively in a rapidly changing market, and our ability to generate revenues will suffer if we are unable to retain key personnel and hire additional personnel. The future success, strategic development, and execution of our business will depend upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key sales, marketing, and support personnel. We do not maintain “key person” life insurance policies with respect to any of our employees, nor are we certain if any such policies will be obtained or maintained in the future. We may need to hire additional personnel in the future, and we believe the success of the combined business depends, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain key employees. The loss of the services of any key employees, the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel in the future, or delays in hiring required personnel could limit our ability to generate revenues and to operate our business. Risks Related to our Common Stock and the Securities Markets We have only recently commenced operations as a public company. Fulfilling our obligations incident to being a public company will be expensive and time-consuming, and we may not be able to comply with all of these obligations. Prior to the Acquisitions, we had no significant operating activities and therefore relied upon the services of an interim Chief Financial Officer for all finance and accounting functions. Similarly, prior to the Acquisitions, our Americas and EMEA operating companies operated as private companies, and therefore maintained relatively small finance and accounting staffs. We do not currently have an internal audit group. Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC, we are in the process of implementing additional corporate governance practices to adhere to a variety of reporting requirements and complex accounting rules. Compliance with these obligations will require significant management time, place significant additional demands on our finance and accounting staff and on our financial, accounting and information systems, and increase our insurance, legal, and financial compliance costs. We may also need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge. We cannot assure that we will be able to comply with these obligations in a timely manner, or at all, in which case we could become subject to enforcement actions by the SEC or other regulatory bodies or other adverse consequences. Because we do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock, stockholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We do not currently anticipate paying any dividends on shares of our common stock. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be made by our Board of Directors and will depend upon results of operations, financial conditions, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law, and other factors our Board of Directors deems relevant. Accordingly, realization of a gain on stockholders’ investments will depend on the appreciation of the price of our common stock. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which stockholders purchased their shares. Our outstanding warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In connection with our initial public offering, we issued warrants to purchase 16,330,000 shares of common stock. Certain of our former and current officers and directors and/or certain of their affiliates also hold warrants to purchase 4,950,000 shares of common stock at $5.00 per share. We also issued an option to purchase 25,000 Series A units (each now representing two shares of common stock, five Class W warrants, and five Class Z warrants) and/or 230,000 Series B units (each now representing two shares of common stock, one Class W warrant, and one Class Z warrant) to the representative of the underwriters of our initial public offering which, if exercised, would result in the issuance of an additional 710,000 warrants. In connection with the purchase of GII, we have issued warrants to the former shareholders of that company to purchase an additional 2,900,000 shares of our common stock. The sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares underlying the warrants and the exercise of any purchase options could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future public financing. If and to the extent these warrants are exercised, stockholders may experience dilution to their holdings. 18 If our stockholders exercise their registration rights, it may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition to the right of selling stockholders to have their shares of common stock registered, some of our existing stockholders are entitled to demand that we register the resale of their shares of our common stock and Class W and Class Z warrants and shares of common stock underlying their Class W and Class Z warrants at any time after we consummated the Acquisitions. If these stockholders were to exercise their registration rights with respect to all of these shares and warrants, there would be an additional 4,950,100 shares of common stock and 4,950,000 warrants eligible for trading in the public market. The consideration issued to the former GII shareholders upon the closing of our Acquisition of GII included 1,300,000 shares of our common stock, 1,450,000 of our Class W Warrants, each of which entitles the holder to purchase one share of our common stock at $5.00 per share, and 1,450,000 of our Class Z Warrants, each of which entitles the holder to purchase one share of our common stock at $5.00 per share. These securities are currently not registered, and their resale is restricted. However, the recipients of those shares and warrants in connection with our purchase of GII have certain registration rights, including the right to demand registration beginning on January 15, 2007, and will be able to sell their shares in the public market if registration is effected. The presence of this additional number of shares of common stock and warrants eligible for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. If our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. Under generally accepted accounting principles, we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include reduced future cash flow estimates, a decline in stock price and market capitalization, and slower growth rates in our industry. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, negatively impacting our results of operations. The concentration of our capital stock ownership will likely limit a stockholder’s ability to influence corporate matters, and could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable and make it more difficult for a stockholder to elect directors of its choosing. Based on public filings with the SEC made by J. Carlo Cannell, we believe that as of December 31, 2007, funds associated with Cannell Capital LLC owned 1,612,016 shares of our common stock and warrants to acquire 2,224,000 shares of our common stock. Based on the number of shares of our common stock outstanding on March 10, 2008, without taking into account their unexercised warrants, these funds would beneficially own approximately 10.9% of our common stock. In addition, as of March 10, 2008, our executive officers, directors and affiliated entities together beneficially owned common stock, without taking into account their unexercised and unconverted warrants, options and convertible notes, representing approximately 12.1% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders have the ability to exert significant control over matters that require approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. The interests of these stockholders might conflict with your interests as a holder of our securities, and it may cause us to pursue transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investments, even though such transactions may involve significant risks to you as a security holder. The large concentration of ownership in a small group of stockholders might also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company that other stockholders may view as beneficial. 19 It may be difficult for you to resell shares of our common stock if an active market for our common stock does not develop. Our common stock is not actively traded on a securities exchange and we currently do not meet the initial listing criteria for any registered securities exchange, including the NASDAQ National Market System. It is quoted on the less recognized Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board. This factor may further impair your ability to sell your shares when you want and/or could depress our stock price. As a result, you may find it difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations of the price of, our securities because smaller quantities of shares could be bought and sold, transactions could be delayed, and security analyst and news coverage of our company may be limited. These factors could result in lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for our shares. 