Item 1A. Risk Factors. We are a company with no operating history and very limited resources. We are a recently incorporated company with no operating results to date. Since we do not have an operating history, you will have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective, which is to acquire an operating business. We have not plans, arrangements or understanding with any prospective acquisition candidates. We have no present revenue and will not generate any revenues (other than interest income) until, at the earliest, after the consummation of a business combination. If we are unable to complete a business combination, holders of our common stock will be unable to convert their securities and participate in the distribution of the trust fund. The trust fund is reserved for holders of our Class B common stock. Consequently, if we are unable to complete a business combination within 12 months after completion of our April 2005 initial public offering or within 18 months if we enter into a letter of intent prior to the expiration of the 12-month period, the holders of our common stock will not be entitled to participate in the distribution of the trust fund. Furthermore, there will be no distribution from the trust fund with respect to our outstanding Class W and Class Z warrants. Shares of common stock will not be entitled to vote on a proposed business combination. Holders of our common stock will not be entitled to vote on a proposed business combination with a target business. Only the Class B shareholders will have an opportunity to approve a business combination. Consequently, holders of common stock will be entirely dependent upon the judgment of Class B shareholders in determining whether or not a proposed business combination is approved. Holders of our common stock are likely to lose all or substantially all of their investment if we do not complete a business combination. If we are unable to complete a business combination and the trust fund is distributed to the Class B shareholders, we will be dissolved and our remaining net assets will be distributed to the holders of common stock. It is likely, however, that our remaining net assets will be minimal following the expenditures incurred in connection with the attempt to complete a business combination and accordingly such holders are likely to lose all or substantially all of their investment. You will not be entitled to protections normally afforded to investors of blank check companies. We may be deemed to be a “blank check” company under the United States securities laws. However, since we have net tangible assets in excess of $5,000,000, we are exempt from rules promulgated by the SEC to protect investors of blank check companies such as Rule 419. Accordingly, investors will not be afforded the benefits or protections of those rules. Because we are not subject to Rule 419, we have a longer period of time to complete a business combination in certain circumstances. 6 If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced and the per-share distribution received by Class B stockholders will be less than $5.17 per share. Our placing of funds in trust may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Although we will seek to have all vendors, prospective target businesses or other entities we engage, execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust fund for the benefit of our Class B stockholders, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements or that even if they execute such agreements that they would be prevented from bringing claims against the trust fund. Nor is there any guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and will not seek recourse against the trust fund for any reason. Accordingly, the proceeds held in trust could be subject to claims which could take priority over the claims of our Class B stockholders. We cannot assure you that the per-share distribution from the trust fund will not be less than $5.17 due to claims of creditors. If we are unable to complete a business combination and are forced to distribute the proceeds held in trust to our Class B stockholders, Rhodric Hackman, our President, Lior Samuelson, our Executive Vice President, and David Ballarini, our Chief Financial Officer, will be personally liable under certain circumstances to ensure that the proceeds in the trust fund are not reduced by the claims of various vendors or other entities that are owed money by us for services rendered or products sold to us. However, we cannot assure you that Messrs. Hackman, Samuelson and Ballarini will be able to satisfy those obligations. Since we are not limited to any particular industry or any target business with which to complete a business combination, we are unable to currently ascertain the merits or risks of the industry in or business which we may ultimately operate. We may consummate a business combination with a company in any industry we choose and are not limited to any particular industry or type of business. Accordingly, there is no current basis for you to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the particular industry in which we may ultimately operate or the target business which we may ultimately acquire. To the extent we complete a business combination with a financially unstable company or an entity in its development stage, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations of those entities. If we complete a business combination with an entity in an industry characterized by a high level of risk, we may be affected by the currently unascertainable risks of that industry. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular industry or target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. We may issue shares of our capital stock or debt securities to complete a business combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and likely cause a change in control of our ownership. Although we have no commitments as of the date of this report to issue our securities, we will, in all likelihood, issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock or preferred stock, or a combination of common and preferred stock, to complete a business combination. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or any number of shares of our preferred stock: • may significantly reduce the equity interest of investors in this offering; • may subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to the common stock; • will likely cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and most likely also result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and • may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Similarly, if we issue debt securities, it could result in: • default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a business combination were insufficient to pay our debt obligations; 7 • acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we have made all principal and interest payments when due if the debt security contains covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves and any such covenant is breached without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; • our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; and • our inability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such security is outstanding. It is likely that our current officers and directors will resign upon consummation of a business combination and we will have only limited ability to evaluate the management of the target business. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination will be totally dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. The future role of our key personnel in the target business, however, cannot presently be ascertained. Although it is possible that some of our key personnel will remain associated in various capacities with the target business following a business combination, it is likely that the management of the target business at the time of the business combination will remain in place. Although we intend to closely scrutinize the management of a prospective target business in connection with evaluating the desirability of effecting a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of management will prove to be correct. Our officers and directors may allocate their time to other businesses which could cause a conflict of interest as to which business they present a viable acquisition opportunity to and may in the future become affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us which may cause a conflict of interests in determining which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented to. Our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which may result in a conflict of interest in allocating their time between our operations and other businesses. All of our executive officers are engaged in several other business endeavors and are not obligated to contribute any specific number of hours to our affairs. Some of these persons may in the future become affiliated with entities, including other “blank check” companies, engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. Our officers and directors may become aware of business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to us as well as the other entities with which they may be affiliated. Accordingly, they may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. All of our officers and directors own securities which will not participate in the distribution of the trust fund and therefore they may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination. The common stock, Class W and Class Z warrants owned by our directors and officers will be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. The personal and financial interests of our directors and officers may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business and completing a business combination. Consequently, our directors’ and officers’ discretion in identifying and selecting a suitable target business may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our stockholders’ best interest. If our common stock and Class B common stock becomes subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. If at any time we have net tangible assets of $5,000,000 or less and our common stock and Class B common stock has a market price per share of less than $5.00, transactions in our common stock and Class B common stock may be subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: • make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; 8 • receive the purchaser’s written agreement to a transaction prior to sale; • provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents which identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and which describe the market for these “penny stocks” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; and • obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a “penny stock” can be completed. If our common stock and Class B common stock becomes subject to these rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our securities may be depressed, and you may find it more difficult to sell our securities. It is probable that we will only be able to complete one business combination, which will cause us to be solely dependent on a single business and a limited number of products or services. The net proceeds from our initial public offering provided us with only $55,050,876 which we may use to complete a business combination. Our initial business combination must be with a business with a fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets at the time of such acquisition. Consequently, it is probable that we will have the ability to complete only a single business combination. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may be: • solely dependent upon the performance of a single business, or • dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services. In this case, we will not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities which may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry. Because of our limited resources and the significant competition for business combination opportunities, we may not be able to consummate a business combination with growth potential. We expect to encounter intense competition from other entities having a business objective similar to ours, including venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds and operating businesses competing for acquisitions. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While we believe that there are numerous potential target businesses that we could acquire, our ability to compete in acquiring certain sizable target businesses will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. Further, the obligation we have to seek Class B stockholder approval of a business combination may delay the consummation of a transaction, and our obligation to convert into cash the shares of Class B common stock in certain instances may reduce the resources available for a business combination. Additionally, our outstanding Class W and Class Z warrants, and the future dilution they potentially represent, may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses. Any of these obligations may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. 9 We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure the transaction or abandon a particular business combination. Although we believe that the funds in our trust fund will be sufficient to allow us to consummate a business combination, in as much as we have not yet identified any prospective target business, we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. If the funds in our trust fund prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of the business combination or the depletion of the available net proceeds in search of a target business, or because we become obligated to convert into cash a significant number of shares of Class B common stock from dissenting stockholders, we will be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that such financing would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. In addition, if we consummate a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target business. None of our officers, directors or stockholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination. Our loss of the services of any of H. Brian Thompson, Rhodric Hackman, Lior Samuelson and David Ballarini would make it more difficult to find a suitable company for a business combination which makes it more likely that we will be forced to distribute the proceeds of our trust fund to our Class B stockholders. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination will be largely dependent upon the efforts of H. Brian Thompson, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Rhodric Hackman, our President, Lior Samuelson, our Executive Vice President and David Ballarini, our Chief Financial Officer. We have not entered into an employment agreement with any of Messrs. Thompson, Hackman, Samuelson and Ballarini, nor have we obtained any “key man” life insurance on either of their lives. The loss of their services could have a material adverse effect on our ability to successfully achieve our business objectives, including successfully consummating a business combination with Adventure Holdings or otherwise seeking a suitable target business to effect a business combination. Our outstanding warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult to effect a business combination. In connection with our initial public offering, we issued warrants to purchase 16,330,000 shares of common stock. Our officers and directors and/or certain of their affiliates have also purchased warrants to purchase 4,950,000 shares of common stock at $5.00 per share. We also issued an option to purchase 25,000 Series A units and/or 230,000 Series B units to the representative of the underwriters which, if exercised, will result in the issuance of an additional 710,000 warrants. To the extent we issue shares of common stock to effect a business combination, the potential for the issuance of substantial numbers of additional shares upon exercise of these warrants could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business as such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares issued to complete the business combination. Accordingly, our warrants may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of the target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares underlying the warrants and options could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future public financing. If and to the extent these warrants are exercised, you may experience dilution to your holdings. Our securities are quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, which may limit the liquidity and price of our securities more than if our securities were quoted or listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market or a national exchange. Our securities are quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, an NASD-sponsored and operated inter-dealer automated quotation system for equity securities not included in the Nasdaq Stock Market. Quotation of our securities on the OTC Bulletin Board will limit the liquidity and price of our securities more than if our securities were quoted or listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market or a national exchange. 10 Our obligations under laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related regulations, may increase our cost of completing a business combination. As a public company, we will be obligated to comply with laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related regulations implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the National Association of Securities Dealers. These laws and regulations may impose obligations that will increase the legal and financial costs required to consummate a business combination and increase the time required to complete a transaction. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, our activities may be restricted, including: • restrictions on the nature of our investments; and • restrictions on the issuance of securities, which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. In addition, we may have imposed upon us burdensome requirements, including: • registration as an investment company; • adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and • reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. We do not believe that our principal activities subject us to the Investment Company Act of 1940. To this end, the proceeds held in trust are only invested by the trust agent in “government securities” with specific maturity dates. By restricting the investment of the trust funds to these instruments, we believe we meet the requirements for the exemption provided in Rule 3a-1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we were deemed to be subject to the act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expense that we have not allotted for. Our directors may not be considered “independent” under the policies of the North American Securities Administrators Association, Inc. None of our officers or directors own more than 0.01% of our outstanding shares of common stock. Additionally, no salary or other compensation will be paid to our officers or directors for services rendered by them on our behalf prior to or in connection with a business combination. Accordingly, we believe each non-employee director is “independent” as that term is commonly used. However, under the policies of the North American Securities Administrators Association, Inc., because each of our directors owns shares of our common stock and may receive reimbursement for out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them in connection with activities on our behalf such as identifying potential target businesses and performing due diligence on suitable business combinations, state securities administrators could take the position that such individuals are not “independent.” If this were the case, they would take the position that we would not have the benefit of independent directors examining the propriety of expenses incurred on our behalf and subject to reimbursement. Additionally, there is no limit on the amount of out-of-pocket expenses that could be incurred and there will be no review of the reasonableness of the expenses by anyone other than our board of directors, which would include persons who may seek reimbursement, or a court of competent jurisdiction if such reimbursement is challenged. Although we believe that all actions taken by our 11 directors on our behalf will be in our best interests, whether or not they are deemed to be “independent,” we cannot assure you that this will actually be the case. If actions are taken, or expenses are incurred that are actually not in our best interests, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations, and a material adverse effect on the price of stock held by the public stockholders. Risks related to the communications industry Our search for a target business is not limited to any particular industry. Although our management has experience in a number of industries, its most significant relationships and expertise are in the communications industry. If we were to acquire a target company in the communications industry, we believe the following risks would apply to us following the completion of a business combination. Changes in technology may adversely affect our operations and financial condition following a business combination. The communications industry is substantially affected by rapid and significant changes in technology. These changes may render certain existing services and technologies used in the industry obsolete. We cannot assure you that the technologies used by or relied upon by a target business with which we effect a business combination will not be subject to such obsolescence. While we may attempt to adapt and apply the services provided by the target business to newer technologies, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources to fund these changes or that these changes will ultimately prove successful. If, following a business combination, the products that we market or sell are not accepted by the public, our results of operations will be adversely affected. Certain segments of the communications industry are dependent on developing and marketing new products and services that respond to technological and competitive developments and changing customer needs. We cannot assure you that the products and services of a target business with which we effect a business combination will gain market acceptance. Any significant delay or failure in developing new or enhanced technology, including new product and service offerings, could result in a loss of actual or potential market share and a decrease in revenues. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights following a business combination, competitors may be able to use our technology or trademarks, which could weaken our competitive position. If we are successful in acquiring a target business and the target business is the owner of proprietary programming, characters, software or technology, our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and enforce intellectual property rights for those assets, both in the United States and in other countries. In those circumstances, we may file applications for patents, copyrights and trademarks as our management deems appropriate. We cannot assure you that these applications, if filed, will be approved, or that we will have the financial and other resources necessary to enforce our proprietary rights against infringement by others. Additionally, we cannot assure you that any patent, trademark or copyright obtained by us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. We may not be able to successfully compete in our desired industry which is characterized by the existence of large competitors and rapidly changing technology. There is substantial competition in all aspects of the communications industry. Numerous companies, most of which have substantially greater financial resources available to them than we will, are already engaged in all aspects of the communications industry. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully with others in the relevant market upon the successful acquisition of a target business. We may not be able to comply with government regulations that may be adopted with respect to the communications industry. Certain segments of the communications industry, including wireline and wireless communications networks, broadcast networks, cable networks and radio stations, have historically been subject to substantial regulation at the 12 Federal, state and local levels. In the past, the regulatory environment, particularly with respect to the telecommunications industry and the television and radio industry, has been fairly rigid. We cannot assure you that regulations currently in effect or adopted in the future will not have a material adverse affect on any target business acquired by us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. The Company does not have any unresolved staff comments to report for the year ended December 31, 2005. 