Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a number of risks. Before deciding to invest in us or to maintain or increase your investment, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this report and other reports we have filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business operations. If any of these risks are realized, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be seriously harmed. In that event, the market price for our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to our Business and Industry We are an early-stage company with a limited operating history, which limits the information available to you to evaluate our business. InfoLogix Systems Corporation was formed in 2001. There is limited operating and financial information to evaluate our historical performance and our future prospects. We face the risks and difficulties of an early-stage company including the uncertainties of competition, cost increases and delays in achieving business objectives. There can be no assurance that we will succeed in addressing any or all of these risks or that our efforts will generate significant revenue or achieve future profitability. The failure to do so would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We have incurred losses in the past and our ability to operate profitability in the future is uncertain. For the year ended December 31, 2006 we generated revenues of $60.8 million and incurred net losses of $1.9 million. We have incurred net losses in two out of the last five fiscal years and we may incur additional losses in the future. Even if we achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If our business and revenues grow more slowly than we anticipate, our operating expenses exceed our expectations, we are unable to sell our products and services at acceptable prices relative to our costs, or if we fail to develop and introduce on a timely basis new products and services from which we can derive additional revenues, our financial results will suffer. We may need additional financing to fund our operations and finance our growth, but we may be unable to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us. Although we believe that the net proceeds from our recently conducted private placement, our credit facilities and our anticipated cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our operating and capital requirements for at least the next 12 months, we may be required to raise additional capital through either equity or debt financing to fund our operations and to implement our current or future strategies including 17 strategic acquisitions. Factors that could increase our need to seek additional financing include decreased demand and market acceptance for our products, the inability to successfully develop our next-generation products, competitive pressures resulting in lower pricing, acquisition opportunities, and new product offerings by our competitors. In addition, when our existing credit facilities expire, we may need to obtain replacement debt financing. There can be no assurance that additional or replacement debt financing will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we incur additional debt, our interest expense would increase. If we raise capital through the sale of equity securities, the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders would be diluted. In addition, any new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock. If we are unable to obtain additional or replacement financing, our ability to fund our operations and meet our plans for expansion would be adversely affected. Our sales and profitability may be affected by changes in economic, business or industry conditions. If the economic climate in the U.S. or abroad deteriorates, customers or potential customers could reduce or delay their technology investments. Reduced or delayed technology investments could decrease our sales and profitability. In this environment, our customers may experience financial difficulty, cease operations and fail to budget or reduce budgets for the purchase of our products and professional services. This may lead to longer sales cycles, delays in purchase decisions, payment and collection, and may also result in downward price pressures, causing our sales and profitability to decline. In addition, general economic uncertainty and general declines in capital spending in the information technology sector make it difficult to predict changes in the purchasing requirements of our customers and the markets we serve. There are many other factors which could affect our business, including: · the introduction and market acceptance of new technologies, products and services; · new competitors and new forms of competition; · the size and timing of customer orders; · the size and timing of capital expenditures by our customers; · adverse changes in the credit quality of our customers and suppliers; · changes in the pricing policies of, or the introduction of, new products and services by us or our competitors; · changes in the terms of our contracts with our customers or suppliers; · the availability of products from our suppliers; and · variations in product costs and the mix of products sold. These trends and factors could adversely affect our business, profitability and financial condition and diminish our ability to achieve our strategic objectives. Increasing our profitability is necessary to achieve our strategic objectives. The industries in which our Healthcare and Enterprise Mobility businesses compete are highly competitive. To meet our growth objectives, we believe that we need to add and increasingly emphasize higher-value, proprietary solutions, including software applications and professional services. There can be no assurance that we will effectively deploy our initiatives or be successful in obtaining customer acceptance of our current and anticipated higher margin products or developing new products and solutions with higher margins, and if we do not, we would not meet our strategic objectives. Also, if the RFID market or other markets in which we are investing do not grow, we may be unable to achieve the projected margins for these products and solutions. 18 In addition, the implementation of our strategic initiatives to improve profitability may have the unintended effect of straining our operations, increasing operating expenses, and adversely affecting our profitability. The difficulties associated with implementing these initiatives may place a significant burden on our management and our operational and financial resources. If we fail to successfully implement these initiatives or encounter unexpected difficulties during the implementation, our business could be harmed. We have limited experience in acquiring other businesses and cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully integrate any businesses, products, technologies or personnel that we might acquire in the future. We may, from time to time, consider investments in complementary companies, products or technologies. In the event of any future acquisitions, we could: · issue stock that would dilute our current stockholders’ percentage ownership; · incur debt; · assume liabilities of the acquired business; · incur expenses related to the impairment of goodwill; or · incur large and immediate write-offs. Our operation of any acquired business will also involve numerous risks, including: · problems combining the acquired operations, technologies or products; · unanticipated costs; · diversion of management’s time and attention from our core business; · adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; · risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and · potential loss of key employees, particularly those of acquired companies. We have previously acquired the business and assets of other companies, but we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully integrate any businesses, products, technologies or personnel that we might acquire in the future. Any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on our key industry relationships. We maintain important relationships with hardware and software technology leaders, including AeroScout, Dell, Fujitsu, Futura Services, Intermec, JACO, Medical Information Technology, Oracle, Power Up, Siemens and Symbol/Motorola. These strategic relationships are more than a traditional supplier relationship and represent an important lead referral service and sales channel for us. If our partners do not perform adequately, we could experience delays in the development of our products, which could adversely impact our business. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in maintaining our relationships with our partners or that we could find adequate replacements. The loss of any of our partners could result in the temporary or permanent cessation of a group of products or solutions and result in the loss of a portion of our existing or anticipated customer base. 19 We depend on third-party component suppliers and contract manufacturers to manufacture our products. If these third parties experience any delay, disruption or quality control problems in their operations, or cease manufacturing our products, we could lose market share and revenues, and our reputation may be harmed. A substantial portion of our products are manufactured, assembled, tested and packaged by contract manufacturers. We rely on several component suppliers and contract manufacturers to procure components and, in some cases, subcontract engineering work. Some of our products are manufactured by a single contract manufacturer and if we were to lose the services of this manufacturer, finding a suitable replacement could prove particularly difficult. We do not have any long-term contracts with any of these third party component suppliers and contract manufacturers. Product pricing is generally negotiated on an order-by-order basis. If our component suppliers and contract manufacturers encounter financial or other business difficulties, if their strategic objectives change, or if they perceive us to no longer be an attractive customer, they may cease to manufacture our products and our business could be harmed. The loss of the services of any of our primary contract manufacturers or a material change in terms could cause a significant disruption in operations and delays in product shipments and adversely impact cash flow. Qualifying a new contract manufacturer and commencing volume production is expensive and time consuming. Our reliance on third-party component suppliers and contract manufacturers also exposes us to the following risks over which we have limited control: · inability to procure key required components for our finished products to meet our customer’s demand; · unexpected increases in manufacturing and repair costs; · unexpected reductions in payment terms; · interruptions in shipments if one of our manufacturers is unable to complete production; · inability to control the quality of finished products; · inability to control delivery schedules; · inability to obtain favorable pricing; · unpredictability of manufacturing yields; and · potential lack of adequate capacity to manufacture all or a part of the products we require. If we are unable to provide our third-party component suppliers and contract manufacturers with an accurate forecast of our component and material requirements, we may experience delays in the manufacturing of our products and the costs of our products may increase. We provide our third-party component suppliers and contract manufacturers with forecasts of our demand that they use to determine their material and component requirements. Lead times for ordering materials and components vary significantly and depend on various factors, such as the specific supplier, contract terms and demand and supply for a component at a given time. Some of our components require substantial lead times. If our forecasts are less than our actual requirements, our contract manufacturers may be unable to manufacture enough products in a timely manner. If our forecasts are too high, our component suppliers and contract manufacturers may be unable to use the components they have purchased. Therefore, our cost of producing products may be higher than that of our competitors, due to an over-supply of higher-priced components. Moreover, if they are unable to use certain components, we may be required to reimburse them for any losses they incur. 20 In many circumstances, we rely upon third parties for technology that is critical to our products, and if we are unable to continue to license this technology and future technology our ability to offer competitive products could be harmed and our costs of production could increase. In many circumstances, we obtain non-exclusive software license rights to technologies from third parties that are incorporated into and necessary for the operation and functionality of our products. Because the intellectual property we license is available from third parties, barriers to entry for our competitors may be lower than if we owned exclusive rights to the technology we license and use. On the other hand, if a competitor enters into an exclusive arrangement with any of our third-party technology providers, our ability to develop and sell products containing that technology could be severely limited. Our licenses often require royalty payments or other consideration to third parties. Our success will depend in part on our continued ability to have access to these technologies on commercially reasonable terms. If we are unable to license the necessary technology, we may be forced to acquire or develop alternative technology of lower quality or performance standards. This could limit and delay our ability to offer competitive products and increase our costs of production. As a result, our profitability, and market share could be harmed. Our industry is highly competitive, and competitive pressures from existing and new companies may have a materially adverse effect on our business, revenues, growth rates and market share. Our industry is highly competitive and is influenced by the following: · advances in technology; · introduction of new products and services; · evolving industry standards; · product improvements; · rapidly changing customer needs; · intellectual property invention and protection; · marketing and distribution capabilities; · competition from highly capitalized companies; · entrance of new competitors; · customer budget pressure on information technology spending; and · price competition. If we do not keep pace with product and technology advances, our products and services could be rendered obsolete, which would have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, revenues and prospects for growth. There is also likely to be continued pricing pressure as competitors attempt to maintain or increase market share. The products manufactured and marketed by us and our competitors in our industry are becoming more complex. As the technological and functional capabilities of future products increase, these products may begin to compete with products being offered by companies that have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and manufacturing resources than we do. We may not be able to compete successfully against these new competitors, and competitive pressures may result in a material adverse effect on our business or profitability. 21 If we fail to continue to introduce new products that achieve broad market acceptance on a timely basis, we will not be able to compete effectively and we will be unable to increase or maintain sales and profitability. Our future success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products and product enhancements that achieve broad market acceptance. If we are unable to develop and introduce new products that respond to emerging technological trends and customers’ mission critical needs, our profitability and market share may suffer. The process of developing new technology is complex and uncertain, and if we fail to accurately predict customers’ changing needs and emerging technological trends, our business could be harmed. We must commit significant resources to developing new products before knowing whether our investments will result in products the market will accept. We may encounter delays in deploying new or improved products. We are active in the identification and development of new products and technologies and in enhancing our current products. However, in the enterprise mobility solutions industry, such activities are complex and filled with uncertainty. If we expend a significant amount of resources and our efforts do not lead to the successful introduction of new or improved products, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, profitability, financial condition and market share. We may also encounter delays in the manufacturing and production of new products. Additionally, new products may not be commercially successful. Demand for existing products may decrease upon the announcement of new or improved products. Further, since products under development are often announced before introduction, these announcements may cause customers to delay purchases of any products, even if newly introduced, until the new or improved versions of those products are available. If customer orders decrease or are delayed during the product transition, we may experience a decline in revenue and have excess inventory on hand which could decrease gross profit margins. Our profitability might decrease if customers, who may otherwise choose to purchase existing products, instead choose to purchase lower priced models of new products. Delays or deficiencies in the development, manufacturing, and delivery of, or demand for, new or improved products could have a negative effect on our business or profitability. We may be unsuccessful in expanding our professional services and, as a result, fail to achieve our objectives. We are in the process of restructuring our professional services in order to expand our service offerings and enhance our technical expertise. We hope to accomplish that by increasing our in-house talent pool and introducing new models for support and professional services. We look to leverage new employees that are skilled in our business to reduce our dependencies on outside assistance. Our initiatives will include reducing dependence on outside suppliers, determining specific methodologies and processes for meeting customer needs, conducting in-house training sessions, and leveraging business partnerships to increase professional services opportunities. There is no assurance that the restructuring will improve the sales and profitability of our professional services. The success of our business depends on the continuing development, maintenance and operation of our information technology systems. If we fail to maintain and upgrade our information technology systems to meet the demands of our customers and protect our information technology systems against risks that we cannot control, our business may be adversely affected. We compete for customers based in part on the flexibility and sophistication of our information technology systems. The failure of the hardware or software that supports these systems, the loss of data contained in the systems or the inability to access or interact with our website or connect with our customers electronically, could significantly disrupt our operations, prevent customers from placing orders with us or cause us to lose customers. If our information technology systems are unable to handle additional volume as our business and scope of professional services grow, our service levels and operating efficiency will likely decline. In addition, we expect that our customers will continue to demand 22 increasingly sophisticated information technology systems from us. If we fail to hire or retain qualified persons to implement, maintain and protect our information technology systems, or if we fail to upgrade or replace our information technology systems to handle increased volumes and levels of complexity and meet the increased demands of our customers, our business may be adversely affected. Our information technology systems are dependent upon global communications providers, web browsers, telephone systems and other aspects of the Internet infrastructure which are vulnerable to a variety of threats including computer viruses and natural disasters. There can be no guarantee that the steps we have taken to protect against those threats will be effective. Furthermore, although we have redundant systems at a separate location to back up our primary application systems, there can be no assurance that these redundant systems will operate properly if and when required. Any disruption to or infiltration of our information technology systems could significantly harm our business and profitability. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights or if third parties assert we are in violation of their intellectual property rights, we could be prevented from selling our products, the time and attention of management could be diverted from operating the business and our ability to attract new customers and retain current customers could be hampered, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. We have a patent portfolio of issued and pending patent applications both domestically and abroad, principally relating to the design of mobile point-of-activity and mobile point-of-care workstations, and a proprietary power solution for these workstations and wearable computers. We have also developed other proprietary solutions, including form-factor PC technologies designed specifically for low power consumption, handheld point-of-sale devices and several customized software applications. We protect our proprietary information and technology through licensing agreements, third-party nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions, as well as through patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws in the U.S. and similar laws in other countries. There can be no assurance that these protections will be available in all cases or will be adequate to prevent our competitors from copying, reverse engineering or otherwise obtaining and using our technology, proprietary rights or products. There can be no assurance that our competitors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology or design around our proprietary rights. In each case, our ability to compete and to receive licensing revenues could be significantly impaired. To prevent substantial unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights, it may be necessary to prosecute actions for infringement and/or misappropriation of our proprietary rights against third parties. Any such action could result in significant costs and diversion of our resources and management’s attention, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in such action. In addition, third parties may seek to challenge, invalidate or circumvent our patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets, or applications for any of the foregoing. Furthermore, the laws of certain countries in which our products are or may be licensed do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. Third parties may assert claims of infringement of intellectual property rights against us or against our partners for which we may be liable under certain indemnification arrangements. Due to the rapid pace of technological change in our industry, much of our business and many of our products rely on proprietary technologies of third parties, and we may not be able to obtain, or continue to obtain, licenses from such third parties on reasonable terms. The failure to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms or the entry of an injunction that impairs our ability to market certain products or services could have a material adverse affect on our business, profitability or financial condition. Any litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete. We may also be subject to claims from customers for indemnification. Any resulting litigation, regardless of its resolution, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. If it were 23 determined that our products infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others, we would need to obtain licenses from these parties or reengineer our products in order to avoid infringement. We might not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms or at all, or to reengineer our products successfully. Moreover, if we are sued for infringement and lose the suit, we could be required to pay substantial damages or be enjoined from licensing or using the infringing products or technology. Any of the foregoing could cause us to incur significant costs and prevent us from selling our products. Our products are complex and may contain undetected and unexpected defects, errors or failures. Substantial product defects could result in product recalls, repairs, warranties or an increased amount of product returns, loss of market acceptance and damage to our reputation, all of which could increase our costs, cause us to lose sales and have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Product defects might also result in claims against us by our customers or others. In addition, the occurrence of any defects or errors in these products could result in: failure to achieve market acceptance and loss of market share, cancellation of orders, difficulty in collecting accounts receivable, increased service and warranty costs in excess of our estimates, diversion of resources, and increased insurance costs and other losses to our business or to end-users. Incompatibilities, defects or bugs may not be detected until our customers begin to install the products or thereafter. We may need to modify the design of our new or improved products if they have incompatibilities, defects or bugs, which could result in significant expenditures as we seek to remedy the problems, delays in the purchase of the products or canceled orders. Armed hostilities, terrorism, natural disasters, or public health issues could harm our business. Armed hostilities, terrorism, natural disasters, or public health issues, whether in the U.S. or abroad, could cause damage or disruption to us, our suppliers or customers, or could create political or economic instability, any of which could harm our business. Any such attacks could, among other things, cause further instability in financial markets and could directly, or indirectly through reduced demand, negatively affect our facilities and operations or those of our customers or suppliers. We depend on retaining our existing senior management team and recruiting additional senior managers in order to be successful, and the loss or failure to recruit key executives could materially and adversely affect our business. Our current and future performance depends, in significant part, upon recruiting and retaining exceptional senior managers, whose knowledge, leadership and technical expertise would be difficult to replace. Our success also depends in part upon the ability of our executives to work effectively together and with the rest of our employees to continue to develop our technology and manage the operation and growth of our business. The unplanned loss of the services of one or more of our executives could have an adverse effect on our business and profitability. We also must continue to develop and retain a strong core group of senior executives if we are to realize our goal of growing our business and sustaining profitability. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in our efforts. Our business is subject to the budget cycles of our customers. Our business is subject to the budget cycles of our customers in various vertical markets such as healthcare, transportation and retail. This may cause significant quarterly fluctuations in our financial results. Generally, sales are sequentially down in the first quarter from the fourth quarter, higher in the second quarter, flat or slightly higher or lower in the third quarter, and strongest in the fourth quarter. Our products are subject to certain government regulations and noncompliance with, or a change in, those regulations could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition. Our products are subject to regulations by federal, state and local agencies in the U.S. and agencies in certain foreign countries where our products are manufactured or sold. There can be no assurance of 24 continued compliance if these regulations were to change. Regulatory changes may require us to make modifications to certain of our products in order for us to continue to be able to manufacture and market our products, which would result in unanticipated costs and delays. Noncompliance with respect to these regulations, or delays resulting from modifications in order to come into compliance, could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition. Our growth objectives depend on our ability to successfully manage potential international expansion. We intend to expand our geographic presence to global markets, including Europe, Asia, and other emerging centers of healthcare and commercial activity. This expansion will require significant management attention and financial resources. We currently have limited experience in marketing and distributing our products internationally and in developing versions of products that comply with local standards. We may also not be able to maintain or increase international market demand for our products. International operations are subject to other inherent risks, including foreign government regulation of technology or unexpected changes in regulatory and customs requirements, difficulty and delays in accounts receivable collection, difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations, reduced protection for intellectual property rights, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, and taxation consequences. The management and former stockholders of InfoLogix Systems Corporation beneficially own a substantial number of shares of our common stock, which give them significant control over certain major decisions. As of December 31, 2006, the management and former stockholders of InfoLogix Systems Corporation beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 53.0% of our outstanding common stock. This figure does not reflect the increased percentages that management would own after exercise of warrants that were issued in connection with the merger or may own in the event of any exercises of options that have been granted under our employee incentive plans. The interests of our existing stockholders and management may differ from the interests of other stockholders. As a result, our current stockholders and management will have significant control over all corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, irrespective of how our other stockholders may vote, including the following actions: · elect or defeat the election of our directors; · amend or prevent amendment of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws; · effect or prevent a merger, sale of assets or other corporate transaction; and · control the outcome of any other matter submitted to the stockholders for vote. The stock ownership of our current stockholders and management may discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could reduce our stock price or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over the market price of our stock. We recently became subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which can be expensive. We recently became a public reporting company and, accordingly, we are subject to the information and reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and other federal securities laws, including compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The costs of preparing and filing annual, quarterly and periodic reports, proxy statements and other information required by the SEC (including legal and accounting fees) and furnishing audited reports to stockholders will cause our expenses to be higher than they would be if we were a privately-held company. In addition, we will incur substantial expenses in connection with the preparation of a registration statement for the resale of our common stock purchased by investors in the private placement. 25 It can be time consuming, difficult and costly for us to develop and implement the internal controls and reporting procedures required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We may need to hire additional financial reporting, internal controls and other finance personnel in order to develop and implement appropriate internal controls and reporting procedures. If we are unable to comply with the internal controls requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we may not be able to obtain the independent accountant certifications required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Risks Relating to our Indebtedness The covenants in our credit facility may restrict our operations, which could inhibit our ability to execute our growth strategy and have a negative effect on our results of operations. We have entered into a loan and security agreement with Sovereign Bank that provides the Company with an $8.5 million line of credit as well as two term loans with principal amounts of $1.5 million and $1.0 million, respectively. The line of credit must be repaid on March 15, 2009. The term loans are repayable in equal consecutive monthly installments with a final balloon payment due on March 15, 2009. The loan and security agreement contains restrictions and covenants and requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and tests. For example, the loan and security agreement restricts our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, acquire other companies or the assets of other companies and pay dividends without their consent. If we fail to meet or satisfy any of the restrictions, covenants, financial ratios or financial tests, we would be in default under the loan and security agreement. The credit facility is secured by all of the assets of the Company and its subsidiaries, as well as a pledge of the common stock of InfoLogix Systems Corporation (which is the entity through which we conduct substantially all of our operations). An event of default under the loan and security agreement would give the lender the right to declare all amounts outstanding under the credit facility due and payable and enforce its rights to foreclose on the collateral securing the loans. The restrictions contained in the loan and security agreement could inhibit our ability to obtain financing and engage in other business activities that are important to our business and our growth strategy, which could inhibit our ability to grow our business and increase our revenues. Our indebtedness could adversely impact our financial condition. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately $15.9 million of total indebtedness, including short-term debt and approximately $6 million under our credit facility. We may increase the amount of our indebtedness in the future, which could have an important impact on our stockholders. An increase in our indebtedness could: · cause us to violate certain provisions contained in our credit facility; · make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and limit our flexibility to plan for or react to changes in business and economic conditions; · limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures through increases in our cost of capital; and · harm our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing in the future. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our ability to execute our growth strategy would be impaired and our results of operations could be harmed. 26 Risks Relating to our Common Stock Applicable SEC rules governing the trading of “penny stocks” may limit the liquidity of our common stock which may affect its trading price. Our common stock is quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board, and may trade below $5.00 per share; in which case, our common stock would be considered a “penny stock” and subject to SEC rules and regulations that impose limitations upon the manner in which our shares may be publicly traded. These regulations require the delivery, before any transaction involving a penny stock, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the associated risks. Under these regulations, certain brokers who recommend such securities to persons other than established customers or certain accredited investors must make a special written suitability determination regarding such a purchaser and receive such purchaser’s written agreement to a transaction before a sale. These regulations could have the effect of limiting the trading activity of our common stock and reducing the liquidity of an investment in our common stock. Therefore, our stockholders may find it difficult to obtain accurate quotations of our common stock and/or to sell their shares. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors that are beyond our control, including: · announcements of new products or services by our competitors; · quarterly variations in our revenues and operating expenses; · announcements of technological innovations or new products or professional services by us; and · sales of common stock by our founders or other selling stockholders. There may be a limited public market for our securities and we may fail to qualify for the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC or other listing. Although we intend to apply for listing of our common stock on The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC, there can be no assurance if and when initial listing criteria will be met or if such application will be granted or that the trading of our common stock will be sustained. If our common stock fails to qualify for initial or continued inclusion in The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC system or for initial or continued listing on a registered stock exchange, trading, if any, in our common stock would then continue to be conducted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board or in what are commonly referred to as “pink sheets.” As a result, our stockholders may find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our common stock, and our common stock would become substantially less attractive for margin loans, for investment by financial institutions, as consideration in future capital raising transactions or other purposes. An active public market for shares of our common stock may not develop, or if one should develop, it may not be sustained. Therefore, our stockholders may not be able to find purchasers for their shares of our common stock. We do not expect to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to support the development and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any payment of future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including but not limited to our financial condition, operating results, cash needs, growth plans and the terms of any credit agreements that we may be a party to at the time. Accordingly, our stockholders must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. 27 Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price. Effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important in helping prevent financial fraud. If we are unable to achieve and maintain adequate internal controls, our business and operating results could be harmed. We are also beginning to evaluate how to document and test our internal control procedures to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, which require, among other things, our management to assess annually the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting beginning with our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 and our registered public accounting firm to issue a report on that assessment beginning with our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008. During the course of this documentation and testing, we may identify deficiencies that we may be unable to remediate before the requisite deadline for those reports. If our management or our registered public accounting firm were to conclude in their reports that our internal control over financial reporting was inadequate, our stockholders could lose confidence in our reported financial information and the trading price of our stock could drop significantly. Provisions in our organizational documents and under Delaware law may delay or prevent attempts by our stockholders to change our management and hinder efforts to acquire a controlling interest in us. Certain provisions of our bylaws are intended to strengthen the Board’s position in the event of a hostile takeover attempt. These provisions have the effect of providing our board of directors with the sole power to fill vacancies on our board of directors and providing that stockholders may only call a special meeting by the request, in writing, of stockholders owning individually or together ten percent or more of the entire capital stock of the corporation issued and outstanding and entitled to vote. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person which together with its affiliates owns or within the last three years has owned 15% of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Accordingly, Section 203 may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 