Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider these risk factors in evaluating our business. In addition to the following risks, there may also be risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial that may also affect our business. If any of the following risks occur, our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition could be adversely affected. Leverage—Our available cash and access to additional capital may be limited by our leverage. We are highly leveraged and have significant debt service obligations. As of December 31, 2010, we had $2,161.0 million of indebtedness outstanding and total equity of $1,341.3 million. On February 10, 2011, the Company completed a refinancing of $850.0 million of senior secured term loans and repaid $408.7 million of existing senior secured term loans. See Note 21, “Subsequent Events,” for further details. This level of indebtedness could have important negative consequences, including: · we may have difficulty obtaining financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes; · we will need to use a substantial portion of our available cash flow to pay interest and principal on our debt, which will reduce the amount of money available to finance our operations and other business activities; · some of our debt, including borrowings under the senior secured credit facilities, have variable rates of interest, which will expose us to the risk of increased interest rates; · our debt level increases our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse industry conditions; 19 · our debt level could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and in our industry in general; · our substantial amount of debt and the amount we need to pay to service our debt obligations could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and · our failure to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our debt instruments which, among other things, require us to maintain specified financial ratios and limit our ability to incur debt and sell assets, could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could cause our lenders to terminate commitments under our debt agreements, declare all amounts, including accrued interest, due and payable, and enforce their rights in respect of collateral. Our cash interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $158.6 million. After hedging, we had $908.9 million of variable rate debt outstanding at December 31, 2010, a portion of which was subject to a Libor or Euribor floor of 2.00%. After our refinancing in February 2011, we had $850.0 million of variable-rate debt outstanding which is subject to a Libor floor of 1.00%. After the refinancing, a 1% increase in the average interest rate would increase future interest expense by approximately $8.5 million per year. As of December 31, 2010, our debt service for 2011, which represents expected principal payments of our long-term debt and estimated scheduled cash interest payments, is expected to be $569.6 million. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Liquidity — Contractual Obligations” for years beyond 2011. Additional Borrowings Available—Despite our leverage, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur more indebtedness. This could further exacerbate the risks described above, including our ability to service our indebtedness. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Although our indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary, Rockwood Specialties Group, Inc.’s (“Group” or “Group’s”) senior secured credit facilities and the indenture governing the senior subordinated notes due 2014 (the “2014 Notes”) contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, such restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and under certain circumstances indebtedness incurred in compliance with such restrictions could be substantial. For example, under our credit agreement dated February 10, 2011, the term loans under the senior secured credit facilities may be increased by up to $350.0 million in the aggregate, subject to certain exemptions and provided that Group procures lender commitments for such increase. As of December 31, 2010, the revolving credit facility under the senior secured credit facilities provided for additional borrowings of up to $146.5 million, after giving effect to $33.5 million of letters of credit issued on our behalf. As of December 31, 2010, the Titanium Dioxide Pigments venture facility provided for a revolving credit facility of €30.0 million ($40.2 million). This facility provided for additional borrowings of up to €12.9 million ($17.3 million) as of December 31, 2010 after an outstanding bank guarantee of €17.1 million ($22.9 million) related to a defined benefit pension obligation. To the extent new debt is added to our debt levels, the substantial leverage risks described above would increase. Restrictive Covenants in Our Debt Instruments—Our debt instruments contain a number of restrictive covenants which may limit our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities that may be in our interest. Group’s senior secured credit agreement and indenture governing the 2014 Notes and the Titanium Dioxide Pigment’s venture facility agreement impose, and the terms of any future indebtedness may impose, operating and other restrictions on us. Such restrictions will affect, and in many respects limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to take certain actions. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” section for further details. In addition, Group’s senior secured credit facilities require us and the Titanium Dioxide Pigment’s venture facility requires the venture to achieve certain financial and operating results and maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. Our ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by events beyond our control such as an economic downturn. The restrictions and financial covenants contained in Group’s senior secured credit agreement and indenture governing the 2014 Notes and the Titanium Dioxide Pigment’s venture facility could adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, acquisitions, investments or strategic plans or other capital needs or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest. A breach of any of these covenants or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios could result in a default under the facilities described above. If an event of default occurs under any of these facilities, which includes an event of default under the indenture governing the 2014 Notes, the lenders could elect to: · declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest, to be immediately due and payable; · require us to apply all of our available cash to repay the borrowings; or · prevent us from making any principal, premium or interest payments; 20 any of which would result in an event of default. The lenders will also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further financing. If we were unable to repay or otherwise refinance these borrowings when due, our lenders could sell the collateral securing the senior secured credit facilities, which constitutes substantially all of our and our subsidiaries’ assets. Downturns in certain industries and general economic conditions could adversely affect our profitability and liquidity. In the event another economic downturn or recession or disruption in the capital markets occurs, our results of operations, cash flows and financial position could be materially and adversely affected. Under such circumstances, the demand for our products could decrease, which would adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, our products are used in certain industries, such as the automotive and construction industries. Prolonged downturns or bankruptcies in one or more of these industries could severely reduce demand for our products. For example, sales in our Performance Additives business have been adversely impacted by downward trends in commercial and residential construction, housing starts and trends in residential repair and remodeling. Further, a downturn in the automotive industry, particularly in Europe, may adversely affect the results of operations of our Surface Treatment business in our Specialty Chemicals segment. Moreover, if the value of one or more of our businesses deteriorates, we may be required to record additional impairment charges that could adversely affect our results of operations. If we are unable to successfully anticipate or respond to changing economic conditions, our results of operations and financial position may be materially and adversely affected. Further, another economic downturn or recession or market disruption in the capital and credit markets may adversely impact our future cash flows from operations and our liquidity. For example, we have pension plans located in Germany, Finland, the United Kingdom and the United States that were adversely impacted by market conditions in late 2008 and early 2009. Although recent investment performance of assets in pension plans covering our employees in these countries has reduced the amount of any immediate funding obligations and we have entered into long-term funding arrangements for pension plans located in Germany and the U.K., we may have to make a one-time payment and/or enter into a long-term funding arrangement for the Finnish Plan. Our funding obligations could also change significantly based on the investment performance of the pension plan assets and changes in actuarial assumptions for local statutory funding valuations. Any deterioration of the capital markets or returns available in such markets may negatively impact our pension plan assets and increase our funding obligations for one or more of these plans and negatively impact our liquidity. We cannot predict the impact of this or any further market disruption on our pension funding obligations. Risks Associated with Acquisitions—We may not be able to complete proposed acquisitions nor successfully integrate acquisitions we may undertake in the future. The process of combining or acquiring businesses with Rockwood involves risks. We may face difficulty integrating the new operations, technologies, products and services of future acquisitions or combinations, and may incur unanticipated expenses related to future acquisitions. The difficulties of combining operations may be magnified by integrating personnel with differing business backgrounds and corporate cultures. Failure to successfully manage and integrate acquisitions with our existing operations could lead to the potential loss of customers of the acquired business, the potential loss of employees who may be vital to the new operations, the potential loss of business opportunities or other adverse consequences that could affect our financial condition and results of operations. Even if integration occurs successfully, failure of any future acquisition or combination to achieve levels of anticipated sales growth, profitability or productivity comparable with those achieved by our existing operations, or otherwise not perform as expected, may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, certain acquisitions may trigger regulations designed to monitor competition and would therefore require regulatory approval. We cannot predict whether such authorities will approve acquisitions we seek to accomplish in the future. Currency Fluctuations—Because a significant portion of our operations is conducted in foreign currencies, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations and may affect the comparability of our results between financial periods. Our operations are conducted by subsidiaries in many countries. The results of their operations and financial condition are reported in their functional currency, generally their local currency, and are then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. The exchange rates between some of these currencies and the dollar in recent years have fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so in the future. A significant portion of our net sales and cost of products sold is denominated in Euros. Approximately 61% of our 2010 net sales were derived from subsidiaries whose local currency is the euro. This increases the impact of the fluctuation of the euro against the U.S. dollar. Furthermore, because a portion of our debt is denominated in Euros, which as of December 31, 2010 equaled an aggregate of €786.8 million ($1,053.0 million) and after our refinancing in February 2011 equaled €515.8 million ($690.3 million), we are subject to fluctuation in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the euro. For example, the dollar-euro rate increased from €1.00 = $0.939 on December 31, 2000 to €1.00 = $1.3384 on December 31, 2010. 21 Being subject to this currency fluctuation may have an adverse effect on the carrying value of our debt. After the refinancing, a weakening or strengthening of the euro against the U.S. dollar by $0.01 would decrease or increase, respectively, by $5.2 million the U.S. dollar equivalent of our total euro-denominated debt of €515.8 million. In addition, because our consolidated financial statements are reported in U.S. dollars, the translation effect of such fluctuations has in the past significantly impacted, and may in the future, significantly impact the carrying value of our debt. We also incur currency transaction risk whenever we enter into either a purchase or sale transaction using a currency other than the local currency of the transacting entity. We may not be able to effectively manage our currency translation and/or transaction risks, and as a result, volatility in currency exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on the carrying value of our debt and results of operations. Regulation of Our Raw Materials, Products and Facilities—Our business could be adversely affected by regulation to which our raw materials, products and facilities are subject. Some of the raw materials we handle, and our products and facilities, are subject to government regulation. These regulations affect the manufacturing processes, handling, uses and applications of our products. In addition, some of our subsidiaries’ products contain raw materials, such as arsenic pentoxide, carbon disulfide, lithium carbonate, tetrahydrofuran, copper, chromic acid, silica, zinc chromate and lead that are deemed hazardous materials in certain situations. The use and handling of these materials is regulated and some of these regulations require product registrations, which also are subject to renewal and potential revocation. For example, in February 2002, the EPA announced a voluntary decision by CCA manufacturers, including our subsidiaries, to amend their registrations for CCA to limit use of CCA-treated lumber in most residential settings, effective December 31, 2003. These regulations may affect our ability to market certain chemicals we produce. There is also a risk that other key raw materials or one or more of our products may be found to have, or be recharacterized as having, a toxicological or health-related impact on the environment or on our customers or employees. If such a discovery or recharacterization occurs, the relevant materials, chemicals or products, including products of our customers incorporating our materials or chemicals, may be recalled or banned or we may incur increased costs in order to comply with new regulatory requirements. Change in regulations, or their interpretation, may also affect the marketability of certain of our products. We cannot predict how these and other findings from regulatory agencies may affect our cash flows or results of operations. Manufacturing Hazards—Hazards associated with chemical manufacturing could adversely affect our results of operations. Due to the nature of our business, we are exposed to the hazards associated with chemical manufacturing and the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products and wastes in our manufacturing facilities or our distribution centers, such as fires, explosions and accidents. These hazards could lead to an interruption or suspension of operations and have an adverse effect on the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility or on our company as a whole. Other hazards include piping and storage tank leaks and ruptures, mechanical failure, employee exposure to hazardous substances, chemical spills and other discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases, inclement weather and natural disasters. These hazards may cause personal injury and loss of life, damage to property and contamination of the environment, which could lead to government fines or work stoppage injunctions and lawsuits by injured persons. Raw Materials—Fluctuations in costs of our raw materials or our access to supplies of our raw materials could adversely affect our results of operations. Although no single raw material represented more than 3% of our cost of products sold in 2010, raw material costs generally account for a high percentage of our total costs of products sold. In 2010, raw materials constituted approximately 46% of our cost of products sold. We generally purchase raw materials based on supply agreements linked to market prices and therefore our results of operations are subject to short-term fluctuations in raw materials prices. These fluctuations limit our ability to accurately forecast future raw material costs and hence our profitability. Many of the raw materials we use are commodities, and the price of each can fluctuate widely for a variety of reasons, including changes in availability, major capacity additions or reductions or significant facility operating problems. Historically, there have been some price increases we have not been able to pass through to our customers. This trend may continue in the future. In addition, titanium-bearing slag used in our Titanium Dioxide Pigments segment is our largest raw material (in terms of dollars) and is sourced primarily from two suppliers. If one of our suppliers is unable to meet its obligations under our present supply agreement or we are unable to enter into new supply arrangements on competitive terms when our existing short-term supply arrangements expire, we may be forced to pay higher prices to obtain these necessary raw materials. In addition, a significant portion of our lithium compounds are processed at a single location of a supplier. Any disruption at this facility could adversely affect our ability to meet market demand for these products, our relationships with our customers and our results of operations. Furthermore, certain of our raw materials, such as cesium and lithium salts, are sourced from countries where political, economic and social conditions may be subject to instability. In addition, one of our raw materials, lithium brine, requires a period of gestation before it can be used to produce lithium compounds. In the event there is an increase in market demand for lithium products, or of unfavorable weather conditions at the lithium ponds, as we 22 experienced in early 2006, we may not be able to respond to such market demand on a timely basis. Any interruption of supply or any price increase of raw materials could result in our inability to meet demand for our products, loss of customer goodwill and higher costs of producing our products. Energy Costs—Fluctuations in energy costs could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Energy purchases in 2010 constituted approximately 9% of Rockwood’s cost of products sold. Fluctuations in the price of energy limit our ability to accurately forecast future energy costs and consequently our profitability. For example, natural gas prices were volatile and increased in 2010 in Europe. Rising energy costs may increase our raw material costs and negatively impact our customers and the demand for our products. These risks will be heightened if our customers or production facilities are in locations experiencing severe energy shortages. For example, our lithium facility in Chile has experienced a shortage of natural gas in the past due to the Argentine government’s decision to ration its supply of natural gas to Chile. If energy prices fluctuate significantly, or we experience severe energy shortages, our business, in particular, our Titanium Dioxide segment where energy costs are more significant, or results of operations may be adversely affected. Environmental, Health and Safety Regulations—Compliance with extensive environmental, health and safety laws could require material expenditures or changes in our operations. Our operations are subject to extensive environmental, health and safety laws and regulations at national, international and local levels in numerous jurisdictions. In addition, our production facilities and a number of our distribution centers require operating permits that are subject to renewal. The nature of the chemicals industry exposes us to risks of liability under these laws and regulations due to the production, storage, transportation, disposal and sale of chemicals and materials that can cause contamination or personal injury if released into the environment. In 2010, our capital expenditures for safety, health and environmental matters (“SHE”) were $19.2 million. For 2011, we estimate capital expenditures for compliance with SHE laws to be at similar levels. Compliance with environmental laws generally increases the costs of manufacturing, the cost of registration/approval requirements, the costs of transportation and storage of raw materials and finished products, as well as the costs of the storage and disposal of wastes, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may incur substantial costs, including fines, damages, criminal or civil sanctions and remediation costs, or experience interruptions in our operations, for violations arising under these laws or permit requirements. Furthermore, environmental laws are subject to change and have tended to become stricter over time. Such changes in environmental laws or their interpretation, or the enactment of new environmental laws, could result in materially increased capital expenditures and compliance costs. For example, proposed regulation related to greenhouse gases and carbon dioxide emissions, such as the cap and trade requirements, and potential revisions to the Toxic Control Substances Act, could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. In addition, the discovery of contamination arising from historical industrial operations at some of our former and present properties has exposed us, and in the future may continue to expose us, to cleanup obligations and other damages. For example, soil and groundwater contamination is known to exist at several of our facilities. At December 31, 2010, we had approximately $49.8 million in reserves for estimated environmental liabilities and estimated the potential range of exposure for such liabilities to be between $49.8 million and $76.4 million. Environmental Indemnities—We may be subject to environmental indemnity claims relating to properties we have divested. The discovery of contamination arising from properties that we have divested may expose us to indemnity obligations under the sale agreements with the buyers of such properties or cleanup obligations and other damages under applicable environmental laws. For example, we have obligations to indemnify the buyers of several businesses of the former explosives segment of Dynamit Nobel for certain environmental matters. Under such sale agreements, these indemnities are not limited as to amount. In addition, we agreed to indemnify the buyers of our former Electronics business and our plastic compounding business for certain environmental liabilities, respectively, related to such businesses. We may not have adequate insurance coverage or cash flows to make such indemnity payments. Such payments may be costly and may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Product Liability—Due to the nature of our business and products, we may be liable for damages arising out of product liability claims. The sale of our products involves the risk of product liability claims. For example, some of the chemicals or substances that are used in our businesses, such as arsenic pentoxide, have been alleged to represent potentially significant health and safety concerns. Class action suits have been filed in Louisiana, Florida and Arkansas, for example, naming one of our subsidiaries and a number of competitors of our Timber Treatment Chemicals business line, as well as treaters and retailers, as defendants. In addition, our subsidiary has been named as a defendant in personal injury suits in several jurisdictions with retailers and treaters named as other defendants. Furthermore, there are other similar suits pending against retailers, treaters and other formulators to which we may be 23 eventually named as a defendant. These suits allege, among other things, product liability claims in connection with the use of timber products treated with CCA, which utilizes arsenic pentoxide as a raw material. For example, a subsidiary in our Advanced Ceramics segment has been named as a defendant in several product liability lawsuits in Europe relating to broken artificial hip joints, which allege negligent manufacturing by our subsidiary of ceramic components used in the production of artificial hip joints. Also, because many of our products are integrated into our customers’ products, we may be requested to participate in or share in the costs of a product recall conducted by a customer. For example, some of our businesses, including those within our Specialty Chemicals and Advanced Ceramics segments, supply products to customers in the automotive industry. In the event one of these customers conducts a product recall that it believes is related to one of our products, we may be asked to participate in or fund in whole or in part such a recall. We are unable to estimate our exposure, if any, to the above-mentioned lawsuits at this time. We may be subject to future claims with regard to these suits or others like them and we may not be able to avoid significant product liability exposure. A successful product liability claim or series of claims against us for which we are not otherwise indemnified or insured could materially increase our operating costs or prevent such operating subsidiary from satisfying its financial obligations. For example, for policies renewed on or after November 2002, our insurers excluded CCA from our insurance coverage under our general liability policies. We may not have sufficient cash flow from operations or assets to pay a judgment resulting from a product liability claim or product recall, if any, for which there is no or inadequate insurance coverage. Any such judgment or product recall could materially increase our operating costs or prevent such operating subsidiary from satisfying its financial obligations. Product Liability—Due to the nature of our business and products, we may be liable for damages arising out of certain indemnity claims. We may be subject to indemnity claims for product liability lawsuits relating to products we have sold. For example, our Timber Treatment Chemicals business has entered into indemnity agreements with various customers who purchased CCA-based wood protection products. Pursuant to those agreements, one of our subsidiaries agreed to defend and hold harmless those customers for certain causes of action, based on domestic mammalian, and in some cases, human toxicity, caused by our CCA-based wood protection products, subject to certain conditions. Our Timber Treatment Chemicals business, and several of our customers were named as defendants in several suits, including putative class actions, relating to CCA-based wood protection products. Our Timber Treatment Chemicals business has received and may in the future receive claims for indemnity from customers in connection with litigation relating to CCA-based wood protection products and may be required to pay indemnity claims under such agreements to one or more of its customers. If our Timber Treatment Chemicals business is required to pay one or more indemnity claims, insurance or indemnity arrangements from Evonik Degussa GmbH (the successor to Laporte, from which the specialty chemicals business lines that formed Rockwood in the KKR Acquisition were acquired) may not cover such claims and, if not, our subsidiary may not have sufficient free cash flow to pay such claims. We are unable to estimate our exposure, if any, to these claims and lawsuits at this time. In addition, our Specialty Chemicals segment’s subsidiary that formerly manufactured sealants for insulating glass has been named as a defendant in several lawsuits relating to alleged negligent manufacturing of those products. Pursuant to the sale and purchase agreement with respect to the divested “glass” business, this subsidiary may be required to pay indemnity claims, mainly re-glazing costs. Our insurance may not cover such claims and, in such a case, our subsidiary may not have sufficient cash flow to pay these claims. One or more of these claims could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. FDA Regulation—Some of our manufacturing processes and facilities, pharmaceutical customers and medical device customers are subject to regulation by the FDA or similar foreign agencies. These requirements could adversely affect our results of operations. Regulatory requirements of the FDA are complex. Any failure to comply with them could subject us and/or our customers to fines, injunctions, civil penalties, lawsuits, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, denial of government approvals, withdrawal of marketing approvals and criminal prosecution. Any of these actions could adversely impact our net sales, undermine goodwill established with our customers, damage commercial prospects for our products and materially adversely affect our results of operations. The manufacture and supply of ceramic ball head and liner components for hip joint prostheses systems by our Advanced Ceramics segment may be subject to the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, which imposes current Good Manufacturing Practice requirements on the manufacture of medical devices. Certain lithium compounds manufactured by our Fine Chemicals business line of our Specialty Chemicals segment are also subject to FDA regulation. In addition, medical device customers of our Advanced Ceramics segment to whom we supply our ceramic ball head and liner components are subject to FDA regulation, including premarket approval of their products and post market compliance requirements. The FDA may take three years or longer to grant premarket approval of our customers’ new products, if at all. At any time, our 24 customers’ total hip prostheses systems may be withdrawn from the market either voluntarily by our customers or as a result of the FDA’s or a foreign equivalent’s withdrawal of marketing approval or removal of such products for a number of reasons including safety, current Good Manufacturing Practice or Quality System Regulation problems with our products or our customers’ final products. For example, a customer in our Advanced Ceramics segment initiated a voluntary recall in January 2008 of its hip implant system. Any such regulatory action could significantly limit our net sales generated by our Advanced Ceramics segment and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Competition—Our industry is highly competitive. The end-use markets in which we compete are also highly competitive. This competition may adversely affect our results of operations. We face significant competition from major international producers as well as smaller regional competitors. Our most significant competitors include major chemicals and materials manufacturers and diversified companies, a number of which have revenues and capital resources exceeding ours. In addition, there is increasing competition from market participants in China. Within the end-use markets in which we compete, competition between products is intense. Substitute products also exist for many of our products. Therefore, we face substantial risk that certain events, such as new product development by our competitors, changing customer needs, production advances for competing products, price changes in raw materials and products, our failure to secure patents or the expiration of patents, could result in declining demand for our products as our customers switch to substitute products or undertake manufacturing of such products on their own. If we are unable to develop, produce or market our products to effectively compete against our competitors, our results of operations may materially suffer. We believe that our customers are increasingly looking for strong, long-term relationships with a few key suppliers that help them improve product performance, reduce costs, or support new product development. To satisfy these growing customer requirements, our competitors have been consolidating within product lines through mergers and acquisitions. We may also need to invest and spend more on research and development and marketing costs to strengthen existing customer relationships, as well as attract new customers. As a result, our debt level could limit our flexibility to react to these industry trends and our ability to remain competitive. Product Innovation—If we are not able to continue our technological innovation and successful commercial introduction of new products, our profitability could be adversely affected. Our industries and the end-use markets into which we sell our products experience periodic technological change and product improvement. Manufacturers periodically introduce new generations of products or require new technological capacity to develop customized products. Our future growth will depend on our ability to gauge the direction of the commercial and technological progress in all key end-use markets and upon our ability to fund and successfully develop, manufacture and market products in such changing end-use markets. We will have to continue to identify, develop, market and in certain cases, secure regulatory approval for innovative products on a timely basis to replace or enhance existing products in order to maintain our profit margins and our competitive position. We may not be successful in developing new products and/or technology, either alone or with third parties, or licensing intellectual property rights from third parties on a commercially competitive basis. Our new products may not be accepted by our customers or may fail to receive regulatory approval. If we fail to keep pace with the evolving technological innovations in our end-use markets on a competitive basis, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Dependence on Intellectual Property—If our intellectual property were copied by competitors, or if they were to develop similar intellectual property independently, our results of operations could be negatively affected. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to protect and preserve our intellectual property rights, which rights we own or use pursuant to licenses granted to us by third parties. The confidentiality and patent assignment agreements we enter into with most of our key employees and third parties to protect the confidentiality, ownership and use of intellectual property may be breached, may not be enforceable, or may provide for joint ownership or ownership by a third party. In addition, we may not have adequate remedies for a breach by the other party, which could adversely affect our intellectual property rights. The use of our intellectual property rights or intellectual property similar to ours by others or our failure to protect such rights could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage we have developed, adversely affecting our net sales. If we must sue to protect, defend or enforce our intellectual property rights, any suits or proceedings could result in significant costs and diversion of company resources and management attention, and we may not prevail in such action. We are periodically involved in actions related to misappropriation of our intellectual property by former employees. In addition, when our patents expire, competitors or new market entrants may manufacture products substantially similar to our products previously protected by a patent. We conduct research and development activities with third parties and license certain intellectual property rights from third parties and we plan to continue to do so in the future. For example, in our Timber Treatment Chemicals business, we commercialized Ecolife, our next generation timber treatment preservative from our Timber Treatment Chemicals business, through our joint venture with Rohm and Haas Company (a subsidiary of The Dow Chemical Company). We endeavor to license or otherwise obtain intellectual property 25 rights on terms favorable to us. However, we may not be able to license or otherwise obtain intellectual property rights on such terms or at all. Our inability to license or otherwise obtain such intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on our ability to create a competitive advantage and create innovative solutions for our customers, which will adversely affect our net sales and our relationships with our customers. The steps we take to protect our intellectual property may not provide us with any competitive advantage and may be challenged by third parties. We have been subject to oppositions of our patents and trademarks by third parties before regulatory bodies in certain jurisdictions. Our failure to defend these patents or registered trademarks may limit our ability to protect the intellectual property rights that these applications were intended to cover. In addition, a failure to obtain and defend our trademark registrations may impede our marketing and branding efforts and competitive position. A failure to protect our intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and our net sales. Risk of Intellectual Property Litigation—Our products or processes may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to pay unexpected litigation costs or damages or prevent us from selling our products. Although it is our intention to avoid infringing or otherwise violating the intellectual property rights of others, our processes and products may infringe or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of others. We may be subject to legal proceedings and claims, including claims of alleged infringement by us or our licensees of the patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties. Intellectual property litigation is expensive and time-consuming, regardless of the merits of any claim, and could divert our management’s attention from operating our businesses. If we were to discover or be notified that our processes or products potentially infringe or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of others, we may need to obtain licenses from these parties or substantially re-engineer our products and processes in order to avoid infringement. We might not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms, or at all, or be able to re-engineer our products successfully. Moreover, if we are sued for infringement and lose the suit, we could be required to pay substantial damages and/or be enjoined from using or selling the infringing products or technology. Any of the foregoing could cause us to incur significant costs and prevent us from selling our products. International Operations—As a global business, we are exposed to local business risks in different countries which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations and the value of our common stock. We have significant operations in many countries, including manufacturing facilities, research and development facilities, sales personnel and customer support operations. Currently, we operate, or others operate on our behalf, facilities in countries such as Brazil, Chile, China, Czech Republic, India, Malaysia, Poland, Singapore, South Africa, South Korea, Taiwan and Turkey. Of our total net sales in 2010 of $3,191.6 million, approximately 76% were generated by shipments to customers in countries outside North America. Our operations are affected directly and indirectly by global regulatory, economic and political conditions, including: · new and different legal and regulatory requirements in local jurisdictions; · managing and obtaining support and distribution for local operations; · increased costs of, and availability of, transportation or shipping; · credit risk and financial conditions of local customers and distributors; · potential difficulties in protecting intellectual property; · risk of nationalization of private enterprises by foreign governments; · potential imposition of restrictions on investments; · potentially adverse tax consequences, including imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; · capital controls; and · local political, economic and social conditions, including the possibility of hyperinflationary conditions and political instability in certain countries. In addition, our facilities may be targets of terrorist activities that could result in full or partial disruption of the activities of such facilities. We may not succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies to counter the foregoing factors effectively in 26 each location where we do business. Our failure to do so could limit our ability to sell products, compete or receive payments for products sold in such locations. Furthermore, our subsidiaries are subject to rules and regulations of the United States, such as anti-bribery prohibitions and export controls and economic embargos, violations of which may carry substantial penalties. For example, export control and economic embargo regulations limit the ability of our subsidiaries to market, sell, distribute or otherwise transfer their products or technology to prohibited countries or persons. Failure to comply with these regulations could subject our subsidiaries to fines, enforcement actions and/or have an adverse effect on our reputation and the value of our common stock. In addition, we are subject to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 and the cost of compliance may impact our results of operations. Retention of Key Personnel—If we lose certain key personnel or are unable to hire additional qualified personnel, we may not be able to execute our business strategy. Our success depends, in part, upon the continued services of our highly skilled personnel involved in management, research, production, sales and distribution, and, in particular, upon the efforts and abilities of our executive officers and key employees. Although we believe that we are adequately staffed in key positions and that we will be successful in retaining key personnel, we may not be able to retain such personnel on acceptable terms or at all. Furthermore, if we lose the service of any executive officers or key employees, we may not be able to execute our business strategy. We do not have key-person life insurance covering any of our employees. Relations with Employees—We are subject to stringent labor and employment laws in certain jurisdictions in which we operate, and our relationship with our employees could deteriorate, which could adversely impact our operations. A majority of our full-time employees are employed outside the United States, particularly in Germany where many of our businesses are located. In certain jurisdictions where we operate, particularly in Germany, labor and employment laws are relatively stringent and, in many cases, grant significant job protection to certain employees, including rights on termination of employment. In addition, in certain countries where we operate, including Germany, our employees are members of unions or are represented by a works council as required by law. We are often required to consult and seek the consent or advice of these unions and/or respective works’ councils. These regulations and laws coupled with the requirement to consult with the relevant unions or works’ councils could significantly limit our flexibility in managing costs and responding to market changes. Furthermore, with respect to our employees that are subject to collective bargaining arrangements or similar arrangements (approximately 33% of our full-time employees as of February 1, 2011), we may not be able to negotiate labor agreements on satisfactory terms and actions by our employees may disrupt our business. If these workers were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations and/or higher ongoing labor costs. In addition, if our other employees were to become unionized, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations and/or higher ongoing labor costs. Tax Liabilities—If GEA Group Aktiengesellschaft (formerly known as mg technologies ag) or Degussa UK Holdings, Ltd. fail to satisfy their contractual obligations, we may be subject to increased tax exposure resulting from pre-acquisition periods. Under the terms of certain purchase agreements, third party sellers have agreed to substantially indemnify us for tax liabilities pertaining to the pre-acquisition periods. To the extent such companies fail to indemnify or satisfy their obligations, or if any amount is not covered by the terms of the indemnity, earnings could be negatively impacted in future periods through increased tax expense. Net Loss—We have experienced losses in the past and may experience losses in the future and cannot be certain that our net operating loss carryforwards will continue to be available to offset our tax liability. We have incurred net losses in the past and we may incur net losses in the future. As of December 31, 2010, we had deferred tax assets of $162.6 million related to worldwide net operating and capital loss carryforwards. Additionally, at December 31, 2010, we had a total valuation allowance of $81.1 million. If our operating performance deteriorates in the future in certain tax jurisdictions, we may be unable to realize these net operating loss carryforwards and we may be required to record an additional valuation allowance. Anticipated Capital Expenditures—Our required capital expenditures may exceed our estimates. Our capital expenditures for the year ended December 31, 2010 were $180.3 million, which consisted of expenditures to maintain and improve existing equipment and substantial investments in new equipment. Capital expenditures for 2011 are expected to be above 2010 levels. However, future capital expenditures may be significantly higher, depending on the investment requirements of each of our business lines, and may also vary substantially if we are required to undertake actions to compete with new technologies in our 27 industry. We may not have the capital necessary to undertake these capital investments. If we are unable to do so, we may not be able to effectively compete in some of our markets. Control—A conflict may arise between our interests and those of KKR. Affiliates of KKR own approximately 20.9% of our common stock as of December 31, 2010 on an undiluted basis. Although affiliates of KKR no longer hold a majority of our outstanding common stock, they continue to have a significant impact on the vote in any election of directors. In addition, representatives of KKR occupy two of the seven seats on our board of directors. As a result, even though representatives of KKR do not occupy a majority of the seats on our board of directors, affiliates of KKR have substantial influence over our decisions to enter into any corporate transaction and whether any transaction that requires the approval of the stockholders is approved. Additionally, KKR is in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. They may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 