ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our publicly traded securities. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies, such as competition, technological obsolescence, labor relations, general economic conditions, geopolitical events and international operations. Additional 13 Table of Contents risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations and our liquidity. Risks Relating to Our Business We may not be able to compete successfully in any or all of the industry segments in which we operate. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, and this competition could harm our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. If we are unable to respond successfully to changing competitive conditions, the demand for our products could be affected. We believe that the most significant competitive factor for our products is selling price. Additionally, some of the purchasers of our coke are capable of supplying a portion of their needs from their own coke production as well as from suppliers outside the United States who are able to import coke into the United States and sell it at prices competitive with those of U.S. suppliers. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources and larger capitalization than we do. Demand for our products is cyclical and we may experience prolonged depressed market conditions for our products. Our products are sold primarily in mature markets which historically have been cyclical, such as the aluminum, specialty chemical and utility industries. • The principal consumers of our carbon pitch are primary aluminum smelters. Although the aluminum industry has experienced growth on a long-term basis, there may be cyclical periods of weak demand which could result in decreased primary aluminum production. Our pitch sales have historically declined during such cyclical periods of weak global demand for aluminum. • The principal use of our phthalic anhydride is in the manufacture of plasticizers and flexible vinyl, which are used mainly in the housing and automobile industries. Therefore, a decline in remodeling and construction or global automobile production could reduce the demand for phthalic anhydride. • The principal customers for our coke are U.S. integrated steel producers. The prices at which we will be able to sell our coke in the future will be greatly affected by the demand for coke from the steel industry and the supply of coke from the U.S. integrated steel producers’ own coke production and from foreign sources. • Over the last several years, utility pole demand has declined as utilities in the United States and Australia have reduced spending due to competitive pressures arising from deregulation. Deregulation may continue to negatively affect both the new and replacement pole installation markets. We are dependent on major customers for a significant portion of our net sales, and the loss of one or more of our major customers could result in a significant reduction in our profitability. For the year ended December 31, 2005, our top ten customers accounted for approximately 45% of our net sales. During this period, our two largest customers each accounted for approximately 9% and 8%, respectively, of our total net sales. Additionally, an integrated steel company is the only customer for our furnace coke, with a contract to take 100% of our coke production in 2006. The permanent loss of, or a significant decrease in the level of purchases by, one or more of our major customers could result in a significant reduction in our profitability. 14 Table of Contents Fluctuations in the price, quality and availability of our primary raw materials could reduce our profitability. Our operations depend on an adequate supply of quality raw materials being available on a timely basis. The loss of a key source of supply or a delay in shipments could cause a significant increase in our operating expenses. For example, our operations are highly dependent on a relatively small number of freight transportation services. Interruptions in such freight services could impair our ability to receive raw materials and ship finished products in a timely manner. We are also exposed to price and quality risks associated with raw material purchases. Such risks include: • The primary raw material used by our Carbon Materials & Chemicals business is coal tar, a by-product of coke production. A shortage in the supply of domestic coal tar or a reduction in the quality of coal tar could require us to increase coal tar and carbon pitch imports, as well as the use of petroleum substitutes to meet future carbon pitch demand. This could cause a significant increase in our operating expenses. • In certain circumstances coal tar may also be used as an alternative to fuel. Recent increases in energy prices could result in higher coal tar costs which would have to be passed through to our customers. If these costs cannot be passed through, it could result in margin reductions for our coal tar based products. • The availability and cost of softwood and hardwood lumber are critical elements in our production of pole products and railroad crossties, respectively. The supply of trees of acceptable size for the production of utility poles has decreased in recent years in relation to the demand, and we accordingly have been required to pay a higher price for these materials. Historically, the supply and cost of hardwood for railroad crossties have also been subject to availability and price pressures. We may not be able to source wood raw materials at economical prices in the future. • Metallurgical coal is the primary raw material used in the production of coke. An increase in the price of metallurgical coal, or a prolonged interruption in its supply, could increase our operating expenses. • Our price realizations and profit margins for phthalic anhydride have historically fluctuated with the price of orthoxylene and its relationship to our cost to produce naphthalene; however, during periods of excess supplies of phthalic anhydride margins may be reduced despite high levels for orthoxylene prices. If the costs of raw materials increase significantly and we are unable to offset the increased costs with higher selling prices, our profitability will decline. Our products may be rendered obsolete or less attractive by changes in regulatory, legislative or industry requirements. Changes in regulatory, legislative or industry requirements may render certain of our products obsolete or less attractive. Our ability to anticipate changes in these requirements, especially changes in regulatory standards, will be a significant factor in our ability to remain competitive. We may not be able to comply in the future with new regulatory, legislative and/or industrial standards that may be necessary for us to remain competitive and certain of our products may, as a result, become obsolete or less attractive to our customers. The development of new technologies or changes in our customers’ products could reduce the demand for our products. Our products are used for a variety of applications by our customers. Changes in our customers’ products or processes may enable our customers to reduce consumption of the products we produce 15 Table of Contents or make our products unnecessary. Customers may also find alternative materials or processes that no longer require our products. For example, in 2000 our largest carbon pitch customer announced that it was actively pursuing alternative anode technology that would eliminate the need for carbon pitch as an anode binder. The potential development and implementation of this new technology could seriously impair our ability to profitably market carbon pitch and related co-products. Over 75% of our carbon pitch is sold to the aluminum industry under long-term contracts typically ranging from three to five years. If a new technology were developed that replaced the need for carbon pitch in the production of carbon anodes, it is possible that these contracts would not be renewed in the future. Hazards associated with chemical manufacturing may cause suspensions or interruptions of our operations. Due to the nature of our business, we are exposed to the hazards associated with chemical manufacturing and the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products and wastes in our manufacturing facilities or our distribution centers, such as fires, explosions and accidents that could lead to an interruption or suspension of operations. Any disruption could reduce the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility or of our company as a whole. Other hazards include: • piping and storage tank leaks and ruptures; • mechanical failure; • exposure to hazardous substances; and • chemical spills and other discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases. These hazards, among others, may cause personal injury and loss of life, damage to property and contamination of the environment, which could lead to government fines or work stoppage injunctions, cleanup costs and lawsuits by injured persons. While we are unable to predict the outcome of such matters, if determined adversely to us, we may not have adequate insurance to cover related costs or liabilities and, if not, we may not have sufficient cash flow to pay for such costs or liabilities. Such outcomes could harm our customer goodwill and reduce our profitability. We are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations and may incur significant costs as a result of continued compliance with, violations of or liabilities under environmental laws and regulations. Like other companies involved in environmentally sensitive businesses, our operations and properties are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including those concerning, among other things: • the treatment, storage and disposal of wastes; • the investigation and remediation of contaminated soil and groundwater; • the discharge of effluents into waterways; • the emission of substances into the air; • the marketing, sale, use and registration of our chemical products, such as creosote; and • other matters relating to environmental protection and various health and safety matters. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant costs to comply with environmental laws and as a result of remedial obligations. We could incur significant costs, including cleanup costs, fines, civil and criminal sanctions and claims by third parties for property damage and personal injury, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws and regulations. We accrue for 16 Table of Contents environmental liabilities when a determination can be made that they are probable and reasonably estimable. Total environmental reserves at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 were approximately $3.8 million and $4.7 million, respectively, which include provisions primarily for environmental fines and soil remediation. For the last three years, our annual capital expenditures in connection with environmental control facilities averaged approximately $5.5 million, and annual operating expenses for environmental matters, excluding depreciation, averaged approximately $9.7 million. Management estimates that capital expenditures in connection with matters relating to environmental control facilities will be approximately $9 million for 2006. Contamination has been identified and is being investigated and remediated at many of our sites by us or other parties. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Environmental and Other Liabilities Retained or Assumed by Others” and “—Other Environmental Matters.” Actual costs and liabilities to us may exceed forecasted amounts. Moreover, currently unknown environmental issues, such as the discovery of additional contamination or the imposition of additional cleanup obligations with respect to our sites or third party sites, may result in significant additional costs, and potentially significant expenditures could be required in order to comply with future changes to environmental laws and regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof. We also are involved in various litigation and proceedings relating to environmental matters and toxic tort claims. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Legal Matters” and “Business—Legal Proceedings.” Beazer East and Beazer Limited may not continue to meet their obligations to indemnify us. Under the terms of the asset purchase agreement between us and Koppers Company, Inc. (now known as Beazer East, Inc.) upon the formation of Koppers Inc. in 1988, subject to certain limitations, Beazer East assumed the liability for and indemnified us against (among other things) certain clean-up liabilities for contamination occurring prior to the purchase date at sites acquired from Beazer East and third-party claims arising from such contamination, which we refer to herein as the Indemnity. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Environmental and Other Liabilities Retained by Other” and “Business—Legal Proceedings.” Beazer East and Beazer Limited may not continue to meet their obligations. In addition, Beazer East could in the future choose to challenge its obligations under the Indemnity or our satisfaction of the conditions to indemnification imposed on us thereunder. In addition, the government and other third parties also have the right under applicable environmental laws to seek relief directly from us for any and all such costs and liabilities. In July 2004, we entered into an agreement with Beazer East to amend the December 29, 1988 asset purchase agreement to provide, among other things, for the continued tender of pre-closing environmental liabilities to Beazer East under the Indemnity through July 2019. As consideration for the agreement, we agreed to pay Beazer East a total of $7.0 million in four installments over three years and to share toxic tort litigation defense costs arising from any sites acquired from Beazer East. The first two payments of $2.0 million each were made in July 2004 and 2005. Qualified expenditures under the Indemnity are not subject to a monetary limit. Without reimbursement under the Indemnity, the obligation to pay the costs and assume the liabilities relating to these matters would have a significant impact on our net income. Furthermore, without reimbursement, we could be required to record a contingent liability on our balance sheets with respect to environmental matters covered by the Indemnity, which could result in our having significant additional negative net worth. Finally, the Indemnity does not afford us indemnification against environmental costs and liabilities attributable to acts or omissions occurring after the closing of the acquisition of assets from Beazer East under the asset purchase agreement, nor is the Indemnity applicable to liabilities arising in connection with other acquisitions by us after that closing. 17 Table of Contents The insurance that we maintain may not fully cover all potential exposures. We maintain property, casualty and workers’ compensation insurance but such insurance may not cover all risks associated with the hazards of our business and is subject to limitations, including deductibles and maximum liabilities covered. We may incur losses beyond the limits, or outside the coverage, of our insurance policies, including liabilities for environmental compliance and remediation. In addition, from time to time, various types of insurance for companies in our industry have not been available on commercially acceptable terms or, in some cases, have not been available at all. In the future, we may not be able to obtain coverage at current levels, and our premiums may increase significantly on coverage that we maintain. Adverse weather conditions may reduce our operating results. Our quarterly operating results fluctuate due to a variety of factors that are outside our control, including inclement weather conditions, which in the past have caused a decline in our operating results. For example, adverse weather conditions have at times negatively impacted our supply chain as wet conditions impacted logging operations, reducing our ability to procure crossties. In addition, adverse weather conditions have had a negative impact on our customers in the roofing and pavement sealer businesses, resulting in a negative impact on our sales of these products. Moreover, demand for many of our products declines during periods of inclement weather. We are subject to risks inherent in foreign operations, including changes in social, political and economic conditions. We have operations in the United States, Australasia, China, Europe and South Africa, and sell our products in many foreign countries. In 2005 and 2004, net sales from our products sold by Koppers Europe ApS and Koppers Australia Pty Ltd. accounted for approximately 34% of our total net sales in both years. Like other global companies, we are exposed to market risks relating to fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. Our international revenues could be reduced by currency fluctuations or devaluations. Changes in currency exchange rates could lower our reported revenues and could require us to reduce our prices to remain competitive in foreign markets, which could also reduce our profitability. We have not historically hedged our financial statement exposure and, as a result, we could incur unanticipated losses. We are also subject to potentially increasing transportation and shipping costs associated with international operations. Furthermore, we are also exposed to risks associated with changes in the laws and policies governing foreign investments in countries where we have operations as well as, to a lesser extent, changes in U.S. laws and regulations relating to foreign trade and investment. Our strategy to selectively pursue complementary acquisitions may present unforeseen integration obstacles or costs. Our business strategy includes the potential acquisition of businesses and entering into joint ventures and other business combinations that we expect would complement and expand our existing products and the markets where we sell our products and improve our market position. We may not be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition or joint venture opportunities or complete any particular acquisition, combination, joint venture or other transaction on acceptable terms. We cannot predict the timing and success of our efforts to acquire any particular business and integrate the acquired business into our existing operations. Also, efforts to acquire other businesses or the implementation of other elements of this business strategy may divert managerial resources away from our business operations. In addition, our ability to engage in strategic acquisitions may depend on our ability to raise substantial capital and we may not be able to raise the funds necessary to implement our acquisition strategy on terms satisfactory to us, if at all. Our failure to identify suitable acquisition or joint venture 18 Table of Contents opportunities may restrict our ability to grow our business. In addition, we may not be able to successfully integrate businesses that we acquire in the future, which could lead to increased operating costs, a failure to realize anticipated operating synergies or both. We are the subject of ongoing investigations regarding our competitive practices, which may result in fines or other penalties. In April 2005, the New Zealand Commerce Commission, or the NZCC, filed a statement of claim in the High Court of New Zealand against a number of corporate and individual defendants, including Koppers Arch Wood Protection (NZ) Limited, or KANZ, and Koppers Arch Investments Pty Limited, or KAI. KANZ and KAI have entered into a cooperation agreement (the “Cooperation Agreement”) with the NZCC for the resolution of these proceedings pursuant to which KANZ, KAI and the NZCC have agreed to make a joint submission to the court that it would be appropriate to impose a joint aggregate penalty of approximately $2.5 million plus costs of $0.1 million on KANZ and KAI for breaches of the Commerce Act. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Legal Matters—Government Investigations.” Except as set forth above, we are not currently aware of any other claims (civil or governmental) related to competitive practices in New Zealand. Koppers Arch Wood Protection (Aust) Pty Limited, or Koppers Arch Australia, has made an application for leniency under the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s, or the ACCC, policy for cartel conduct. The ACCC has granted immunity to Koppers Arch Australia, subject to the fulfillment of certain conditions, such as, but not limited to, continued cooperation. If the conditions are not fulfilled, Koppers Arch Australia may be penalized for any violations of the competition laws of Australia. We are not currently aware of any civil claims related to competitive practices in Australia. We have reserved approximately $2.6 million for these penalties and costs as of December 31, 2005. This amount is included in cost of sales. The amount reserved is based upon the penalties and costs set forth in the Cooperation Agreement. KANZ and Koppers Arch Australia are majority-owned subsidiaries of Koppers Arch Investments, which is an Australian joint venture owned 51% by World-Wide Ventures Corporation (our indirect subsidiary) and 49% by Hickson Nederland BV. KANZ and Koppers Arch Australia manufacture and market wood preservative products throughout New Zealand and Australia, respectively. We are not currently aware of any other government investigations or other claims related to these investigations of industry competitive practices. Litigation against us could be costly and time consuming to defend, and due to the nature of our business and products, we may be liable for damages arising out of our acts or omissions. We produce hazardous chemicals that require appropriate procedures and care to be used in handling them or using them to manufacture other products. As a result of the hazardous nature of some of the products we use and produce, we may face product liability claims relating to incidents involving the handling, storage and use of and exposure to our products. For example: • Koppers Inc., along with other defendants, has been named as a defendant in 24 cases filed in state court in Pennsylvania and two cases filed in state court in Texas in which the plaintiffs claim they suffered a variety of illnesses (including cancer) as a result of exposure to coal tar pitch sold by Koppers Inc. There are a total of approximately 82 plaintiffs in these cases. Of the 82 plaintiffs, 80 plaintiffs do not assert any specific amount of damages. These 80 plaintiffs seek compensatory and punitive damages in unspecified amounts in excess of the minimum jurisdictional limits (in most cases $25,000) of the applicable courts. Of the 82 plaintiffs, two 19 Table of Contents plaintiffs (in the same case) assert damages not to exceed a combined total of $10.0 million. The cases are in the early stages of discovery. Koppers Inc. has not provided a reserve for these lawsuits because, at this time, Koppers Inc. cannot reasonably determine the probability of a loss, and the amount of loss, if any, cannot be reasonably estimated. Although Koppers Inc. is vigorously defending these cases, an unfavorable resolution of these matters may result in substantial costs. • Grenada All Cases Koppers Inc., together with various co-defendants (including Beazer East), has been named as a defendant in toxic tort lawsuits in state court in Mississippi (see State Court Cases below) and in federal court in Mississippi (see Federal Court Cases below) arising from the operation of the Grenada facility. The complaints allege that plaintiffs were exposed to harmful levels of various toxic chemicals, including creosote, pentachlorophenol, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and dioxin, as a result of soil, surface water and groundwater contamination and air emissions from the Grenada facility and, in some cases, from an adjacent manufacturing facility operated by Heatcraft, Inc. Based on the experience of Koppers Inc. in defending previous toxic tort cases, Koppers Inc. does not believe that the damages sought by the plaintiffs in the state and federal court cases are supported by the facts of the cases. Koppers Inc. has not provided a reserve for these lawsuits because, at this time, it cannot reasonably determine the probability of a loss, and the amount of loss, if any, cannot be reasonably estimated. Although Koppers Inc. intends to vigorously defend these cases, there can be no assurance that an unfavorable resolution of these matters will not result in substantial cost to Koppers Inc. Federal Court Cases Beck Case—The complaint in this case was originally filed by approximately 110 plaintiffs. Pursuant to an order granting defendants’ motion to sever, the court dismissed the claims of 98 plaintiffs in the Beck case without prejudice to their right to re-file their complaints. In December 2005, 94 of the 98 plaintiffs in the Beck case whose claims were dismissed re-filed their complaints. The plaintiffs in the 94 re-filed cases seek compensatory damages from the defendants of at least $5.0 million for each of eight counts and punitive damages of at least $10.0 million for each of three counts (in addition to damages for an unspecified amount for trespass and nuisance). No discovery orders have been issued with respect to the 94 additional cases. The claims of the 12 plaintiffs whose claims were not dismissed are still pending. The 12 remaining plaintiffs seek compensatory damages from the defendants in an unspecified amount and punitive damages of $20.0 million for each of four counts. The court ordered that the claims of the 12 remaining Beck plaintiffs must be tried separately. The first of these trials is scheduled to commence on April 17, 2006. The remaining 11 trials are scheduled to commence at the rate of approximately one trial per calendar quarter beginning upon the conclusion of the first trial. Ellis Case—There are approximately 1,130 plaintiffs in this case. Each plaintiff seeks compensatory damages from the defendants of at least $5.0 million for each of seven counts and punitive damages of at least $10.0 million for each of three counts (in addition to damages for an unspecified amount for trespass and nuisance). The Ellis complaint also requests injunctive relief. Discovery in this case has been stayed pending the completion of the trials for the 12 plaintiffs in the Beck case. State Court Cases In the state court cases, which currently include a total of approximately 235 plaintiffs, each plaintiff seeks compensatory damages from the defendants of at least $5.0 million for each of 20 Table of Contents up to eight counts and punitive damages of at least $10.0 million for each of three counts. Certain plaintiffs also seek damages for trespass and private nuisance in unspecified amounts together with injunctive relief. The state court cases which were not originally filed in Grenada County are in the process of being transferred to Grenada County pursuant to an order of the Mississippi Supreme Court granting the defendants’ motions for a change of venue and severance. Discovery in the state court cases not originally filed in Grenada County is currently stayed. After such cases have been transferred to Grenada County, the stay of discovery in such cases is expected to be lifted. With respect to the state court case that was originally filed on behalf of 95 plaintiffs in Grenada County, the court granted the defendants’ motion to sever the claims of these plaintiffs for improper joinder and set a period of time for the plaintiffs to re-file individual complaints or have their complaints dismissed. These plaintiffs (together with a small number of new plaintiffs) have filed their individual complaints in Grenada County. These plaintiffs are included in the total of approximately 235 plaintiffs shown above. For more information, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Legal Matters” and “Business—Legal Proceedings.” In addition, we are regularly subject to legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business, such as workers’ compensation claims, governmental investigations, employment disputes, and customer and supplier disputes arising out of the conduct of our business. Litigation could result in substantial costs and may divert management’s attention and resources away from the day-to-day operation of our business. Labor disputes could disrupt our operations and divert the attention of our management and may cause a decline in our production and a reduction in our profitability. Of our employees, approximately 57% are represented by 20 different labor unions and are covered under numerous labor contracts. The United Steelworkers of America, or the USWA, which had represented more than 300 employees at six of our facilities, recently merged with the Paper, Allied-Industrial, Chemical & Energy Workers’ International Union, or PACE, which had represented nearly 200 employees at four of our facilities. The USWA currently represents more than 500 of our employees at ten of our facilities and, therefore, represents the largest number of our unionized employees. Labor contracts that expire in 2006 cover approximately 13% of our total labor workforce. We may not be able to reach new agreements without union action or on terms satisfactory to us. Any future labor disputes with any such unions could result in strikes or other labor protests which could disrupt our operations and divert the attention of our management from operating our business. If we were to experience a strike or work stoppage, it may be difficult for us to find a sufficient number of employees with the necessary skills to replace these employees. Any such labor disputes could cause a decline in our production and a reduction in our profitability. Our pension obligations are currently underfunded. We may have to make significant cash payments to our pension plans, which would reduce the cash available for our business. As of December 31, 2005, our projected benefit obligation under our defined benefit pension plans exceeded the fair value of plan assets by approximately $49.4 million. The underfunding was caused, in part, by fluctuations in the financial markets that have caused the valuation of the assets in our defined benefit pension plans to be lower than anticipated. During the year ended December 31, 2005, we contributed $11.3 million to our pension plans. Management expects that any future obligations under our pension plans that are not currently funded will be funded from our future cash flow from operations. If our contributions to our pension plans are insufficient to fund the pension plans adequately to cover our future pension obligations, the performance of the assets in our pension plans does not meet our expectations or other actuarial assumptions are modified, our contributions to our 21 Table of Contents pension plans could be materially higher than we expect, which would reduce the cash available for our business. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which could harm our ability to operate our business, remain in compliance with debt covenants, make payments on our debt and pay dividends. As of December 31, 2005, we and our subsidiaries had approximately $519.4 million of indebtedness (excluding trade payables, intercompany indebtedness and the effect of redeeming $101.7 million of the Koppers Inc. senior secured notes using proceeds from the initial public offering), consisting primarily of our senior discount notes, Koppers Inc.’s senior secured notes and $44.5 million of indebtedness under our senior secured credit facility. The degree to which we are leveraged could have important consequences, including: • our ability to satisfy our obligations under our debt could be affected and any failure to comply with the requirements, including financial and other restrictive covenants, of any of our debt agreements could result in an event of default under the agreements governing such indebtedness; • substantial portion of our cash flow from operations will be required to make interest and principal payments and may not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes; • our ability to obtain additional financing in the future may be impaired; • we may be more highly leveraged than our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; • our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry may be limited; • our degree of leverage may make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business, our industry or the economy in general; and • our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. Furthermore, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. If we incur additional indebtedness, the magnitude of the risks associated with our substantial leverage, including our ability to service our debt, would increase. Restrictions in our debt agreements could limit our growth and our ability to respond to changing conditions and, in the event of a default, all of these borrowings become immediately due and payable. Koppers Inc.’s senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing our senior discount notes and Koppers Inc.’s senior secured notes contain a number of significant covenants in addition to covenants restricting the incurrence of additional debt. These covenants limit our ability, among other things, to: • incur or guarantee additional debt and issue certain types of preferred stock; • pay dividends on our capital stock or redeem, repurchase or retire our capital stock or subordinated debt; • make investments; • create liens on our assets; 22 Table of Contents • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • sell assets; • engage in transactions with our affiliates; • create restrictions on the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments to us; • consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries; and • transfer or issue shares of stock of subsidiaries. In addition, Koppers Inc.’s senior secured credit facility contains other and more restrictive covenants. Additionally, it requires us to maintain certain financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests and require us to take action to reduce our debt or take some other action to comply with them. These restrictions could limit our ability to obtain future financings, make needed capital expenditures, withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general or otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. We may also be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the limitations that the restrictive covenants under Koppers Inc.’s senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing our senior discount notes and Koppers Inc.’s senior secured notes impose on us. A breach of any of these covenants would result in a default under the applicable debt agreement. A default, if not waived, could result in acceleration of the debt outstanding under the agreement and in a default with respect to, and acceleration of, the debt outstanding under our other debt agreements and the indentures governing our senior discount notes and senior secured notes. The accelerated debt would become immediately due and payable. If that should occur, we may not be able to pay all such debt or to borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. This would result in a significant interruption in our business operations, which would negatively impact the market price of our common stock. Even if new financing were then available, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. Our substantial negative net worth may require us to maintain additional working capital. As of December 31, 2005, we had negative net worth of approximately $206.7 million, resulting primarily from the use of borrowings to fund dividends. Our negative net worth may make it difficult for us to obtain credit from suppliers, vendors and other parties. In addition, some of our suppliers and vendors may require us to prepay for services or products or may impose less advantageous terms on timing of payment. Our ability to enter into hedging transactions may also be limited by our negative net worth. As a result, we may require additional working capital, which may negatively affect our cash flow and liquidity. We may incur significant charges in the event we close all or part of a manufacturing plant or facility. We periodically assess our manufacturing operations in order to manufacture and distribute our products in the most efficient manner. Based on our assessments, we may make capital improvements to modernize certain units, move manufacturing or distribution capabilities from one plant or facility to another plant or facility, discontinue manufacturing or distributing certain products or close all or part of a manufacturing plant or facility. For example, in 2003 we incurred $8.5 million in restructuring and impairment charges which included the curtailment of production at our Woodward, Alabama facility, the impairment of assets at our Portland, Oregon facility, and the closure of our Logansport, Louisiana 23 Table of Contents facility. The closure of all or part of a manufacturing plant or facility could result in future charges which could be significant. We depend on our senior management team and the loss of any member could adversely affect our operations. Our success is dependent on the management, experience and leadership skills of our senior management team. Our senior management team has an average of 27 years of industry experience. The loss of any of these individuals or an inability to attract, retain and maintain additional personnel with similar industry experience could prevent us from implementing our business strategy. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing senior management personnel or to attract additional qualified personnel when needed. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Our stock price may be extremely volatile. There has been significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of equity securities, which is unrelated to the financial performance of the companies issuing the securities. These broad market fluctuations may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Some specific factors that may have a significant effect on our common stock market price include: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results or future prospects; • the public’s reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC; • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; • new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; • adverse conditions in the financial markets or general economic conditions, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism and responses to such events; • sales of common stock by us or members of our management team; and • changes in stock market analyst recommendations or earnings estimates regarding our common stock, other comparable companies or the aluminum or railroad industry generally. Prior to the initial public offering which closed on February 6, 2006, there has not been a public market for our common stock. We cannot predict the extent to which investor interest in our company will lead to the development of an active trading market on the New York Stock Exchange or otherwise or how liquid that market might become. If an active trading market does not develop, you may have difficulty selling any of our common stock that you buy. Future sales, or the perception of future sales, of a substantial amount of our common stock may depress the price of the shares of our common stock. Future sales, or the perception or the availability for sale in the public market, of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through future sales of equity securities at a time and price that we deem appropriate. 24 Table of Contents As of February 28, 2006 there were 20,657,192 shares of our common stock outstanding. The shares of common stock sold by us and the selling shareholders in the initial public offering are freely transferable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. The remaining shares of common stock owned by our existing equity investors will be restricted securities within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act but will be eligible for resale subject to applicable volume, manner of sale, holding period and other limitations of Rule 144. We, our executive officers and directors and shareholders holding 7,960 or more shares have agreed to a “lock-up,” meaning that, subject to specified exceptions, neither we nor they will sell any shares or engage in any hedging transactions without the prior consent of the representatives of the underwriters for 180 days after the date of this prospectus. Following the expiration of this 180-day lock-up period, all of these 20,657,192 shares of our common stock will be eligible for future sale, subject to the applicable volume, manner of sale, holding period and other limitations of Rule 144. Finally, our existing equity investors have certain registration rights with respect to the common stock that they will retain following this offering. See “Shares Eligible for Future Sale” for a discussion of the shares of common stock that may be sold into the public market in the future. We may issue shares of our common stock, or other securities, from time to time as consideration for future acquisitions and investments. In the event any such acquisition or investment is significant, the number of shares of our common stock or the number or aggregate principal amount, as the case may be, of other securities that we may issue may in turn be significant. We may also grant registration rights covering those shares or other securities in connection with any such acquisitions and investments. Any additional capital raised through the sale of our equity securities may dilute your percentage ownership in us. You may not receive dividends because our board of directors could, in its discretion, depart from or change our dividend policy at any time, because of restrictions in our debt agreements, because of our negative net worth or because of restrictions imposed by Pennsylvania law. We are not required to pay dividends, and our shareholders are not guaranteed, or have contractual rights, to receive dividends. Our board of directors may decide at any time, in its discretion, to decrease the amount of dividends, otherwise change or revoke the dividend policy or discontinue entirely the payment of dividends. Our board of directors could depart from or change our dividend policy, for example, if it were to determine that we had insufficient cash to take advantage of other opportunities with attractive rates of return or if we failed to be profitable. In addition, if we do not pay dividends, for whatever reason, your shares of our common stock could become less liquid and the market price of our common stock could decline. The ability of Koppers Inc. and its subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments or distributions to us will depend on our operating results and may be restricted by, among other things, the covenants in Koppers Inc.’s senior secured credit facility, the covenants of any future outstanding indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur and by Pennsylvania law. If a dividend is paid in violation of Pennsylvania law, each director approving the dividend could be liable to the corporation if the director did not act with such care as a person of ordinary prudence would use under similar circumstances. Directors are entitled to rely in good faith on information provided by employees of the corporation and experts retained by the corporation. Directors who are held liable would be entitled to contribution from any shareholders who received an unlawful dividend knowing it to be unlawful. Furthermore, we are a holding company with no operations, and unless we receive dividends, distributions, advances, transfers of funds or other payments from our subsidiaries, we will be unable to pay dividends on our common stock. 25 Table of Contents Our principal shareholder is in a position to affect our ongoing operations, corporate transactions and other matters and its interests may conflict with or differ from your interests as a shareholder. Saratoga Partners III, L.P. and its affiliates own approximately 31% of our common stock. As a result, Saratoga Partners III, L.P. and its affiliates effectively will be able to significantly influence the outcome on virtually all matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including the election of directors. So long as Saratoga Partners III, L.P. and its affiliates continue to own a significant portion of the outstanding shares of our common stock, it will continue to be able to significantly influence the election of our directors, subject to compliance with applicable New York Stock Exchange requirements, our decisions, policies, management and affairs and corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, including the approval of transactions involving a change in control. The interests of Saratoga Partners III, L.P. and its affiliates may not coincide with the interests of our other shareholders. In particular, Saratoga Partners III, L.P. and its affiliates are in the business of making investments in companies and it may, from time to time, acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Saratoga Partners III, L.P. and its affiliates may also pursue, for their own account, acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. Provisions of our charter documents may inhibit a takeover, which could negatively affect our stock price. Provisions of our charter documents and the Business Corporation Law of Pennsylvania, the state in which we are organized, could discourage potential acquisition proposals or make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of our company, even if doing so might be beneficial to our shareholders. Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws provide for various procedural and other requirements that could make it more difficult for shareholders to effect certain corporate actions. For example, our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation, or our Articles of Incorporation, authorizes our board of directors to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of unissued series of preferred stock without any vote or action by our shareholders. Our board of directors can therefore authorize and issue shares of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting or other rights of holders of our common stock. Additional provisions that could make it more difficult for shareholders to effect certain corporate actions include: • Our board of directors will be classified into three classes beginning in 2007. Each director will serve a three year term and will stand for re-election once every three years. • Our shareholders will be able to remove directors only for cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote in the election of directors. Vacancies on our board of directors may be filled only by our board of directors. • Our Articles of Incorporation will not permit shareholder action without a meeting by consent except for the unanimous consent of all holders of our common stock. It also will provide that special meetings of our shareholders may be called only by the board of directors or the chairman of the board of directors. • Our Bylaws will provide that shareholders seeking to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring business before an annual meeting of shareholders must provide timely notice of their proposal in writing to the corporate secretary. These provisions may discourage acquisition proposals and may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock or may delay, prevent or deter a merger, acquisition, tender offer or proxy contest, which may negatively affect our stock price. 26 Table of Contents If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we may be unable to provide the required financial information in a timely and reliable manner and may be subject to sanctions by regulatory authorities. The perception of these matters could cause our share price to fall. We are required under applicable law and regulations to integrate our systems of internal controls over financial reporting, and we are presently evaluating our existing internal controls with respect to the standards adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. We cannot be certain at this time that we will be able to comply with all of our reporting obligations and successfully complete the procedures, certification and attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by the time that we are required to file our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006. If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls and do not address the deficiencies identified in the letter received by our audit committee, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. As a result, our failure to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 on a timely basis could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 27 Table of Contents 