Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a number of risks. Before deciding to invest in us or to maintain or increase your investment, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this report and other reports we have filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business operations. If any of these risks are realized, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. In that event, the market price for our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risk Relating to Our Ability to Continue as a Going Concern Our independent registered public accounting firm has expressed doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. As discussed in "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Going Concern," based on our history of losses and substantial liquidity requirements related to the repayment of our revolving line of credit that comes due on November 1, 2009 and to earn out payment obligations, our independent registered public accounting firm has included an explanatory paragraph with respect to our ability to continue as a going concern in its report on our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2008. The presence of this explanatory paragraph may have an adverse impact on our relationship with third parties with whom we do business, including our customers, vendors and employees and could make it more challenging for us to raise additional financing or refinance our existing indebtedness. We have undertaken a series of actions to reduce costs and are pursuing various initiatives to continue as a going concern and provide for our future success. Future initiatives may include additional financing, one or more strategic transactions and further cost control initiatives. Our continued operations are dependent on our ability to implement those plans successfully. If we fail to do so, we may not be able to continue as a going concern. Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness We have violated certain financial covenants to our senior credit facility and while we are in discussions to amend the facility, including a waiver of those violations, there can be no assurance that we will obtain any such amendment or waiver. We have entered into a loan and security agreement that provides us with a $9.0 million line of credit as well as a term loan facility with a principal amount of $12.0 million. The line of credit must be repaid by November 1, 2009. The term loan is repayable in monthly installments with a final payment due on May 1, 2012. The loan and security agreement contains restrictions and covenants and requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and tests. For example, the loan and security agreement restricts our ability, among other things, to incur additional indebtedness, to acquire other companies or the assets of other companies, to sell or license our assets and to pay dividends without the lender's consent. If we fail to meet or satisfy any of the restrictions, covenants, financial ratios or financial tests, we would be in default under the loan and security agreement. The loans are secured by all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries, as well as a pledge of the common stock of InfoLogix Systems Corporation (which is the entity through which we conduct substantially all of our operations). An event of default under the loan and security agreement, including failure to comply with the covenants, would give the lender the right to declare all amounts outstanding under the credit facility due and payable and enforce its rights to foreclose on the collateral securing the loans. 18 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2008, we were not in compliance with the minimum adjusted EBITDA required under our loan and security agreement and we were not in compliance with the minimum consolidated EBITDA for the three-month periods ended January 31, and February 28, 2009. As a result of the covenant violation, we currently are not permitted to borrow additional funds under our revolving facility. Also as a result of the covenant violation and because our total leverage ratio exceeds 3.00 to 1.00, we are prohibited from satisfying our earn out obligations related to our acquisition of the assets of Healthcare Informatics Associates, Inc. ("HIA"). Due to our inability to comply with these covenants, we are in discussions with our lender, Hercules Technology Growth Capital, Inc. ("Hercules"), to amend our loan and security agreement to restructure its terms, including to waive past violations and to revise the financial covenants and the amortization related to the term loan portion of the facility. While we remain in discussions with Hercules regarding an amendment, we have not obtained, and there can be no assurance that we will obtain, any such amendment. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, additional costs in connection with our negotiations of an amendment. Further, on March 12, 2009, Hercules sent us a letter serving as a notice of events of default and reservation of rights (the "First Notice Letter"). Pursuant to the First Notice Letter, Hercules informed us that it believed certain events of default existed under our loan and security agreement, namely that, commencing on February 26, 2009 and through March 11, 2009, we had failed to reduce the aggregate Revolving Loan Advances to an amount less than or equal to the lesser of (x) the Borrowing Base or (y) the Maximum Revolving Loan Amount (as those terms are defined in the loan and security agreement). Hercules further asserted that we failed to promptly notify it of the alleged event of default because we did not inform Hercules of the overadvance until March 6, 2009. Hercules elected to charge us increased interest and a late fee of approximately $45 for the period of the overadvance. Furthermore, Hercules asserted additional events of default for our failure to deliver certain unaudited monthly financial statements and securities account control agreements. We have disputed both the amount of the interest and late fee charged to us for the overadvance as well as the assertion that we have failed to provide the required securities account control agreements, however we paid the default interest and fees. In addition, on March 25, 2009, Hercules sent us a second letter notifying us of an event of default for failure to comply with the financial covenant as of January 31, 2009 and charging us default interest of $78 for the period from February 1, 2009 through March 31, 2009, except the overadvance period for which default rate interest had already been paid. Hercules also informed us that, for periods subsequent to March 31, 2009, default rate interest will be payable monthly on the same date as regular interest unless Hercules chooses to demand payment of default interest on another date. Under the terms of our loan agreement with Hercules, late fees are equal to 5% of the past due amount and the default rate interest is equal to the applicable regular interest rate plus 3%. Hercules has not chosen to accelerate our obligations under the loan and security agreement, and has expressly not waived any events of default or any of its remedies under the loan and security agreement. We do not have adequate liquidity to repay all outstanding amounts under the credit facility and payment acceleration would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, business, financial condition and results of operations. We require significant cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations and earn out payment obligations and do not currently have sufficient cash flow or financing alternatives to meet those obligations. Our indebtedness under our loan and security agreement and under our earn out agreement related to the acquisition of the assets of HIA involve significant payment obligations. Due to our violations of the financial covenants under our indebtedness with Hercules, we are prohibited from making payments on the HIA obligation. In addition, we do not have sufficient cash flow or financing alternatives to make these payments. This inability to make all required payments has forced us to seek waivers of our obligations and amendments of our agreements. We remain in discussions with Hercules regarding an amendment to restructure the terms of our loan and security agreement and with HIA regarding the earn out payment, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain the resolutions we seek. 19 Table of Contents We will need additional financing to fund our operations and finance our growth; we may be unable to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us. We will be required to raise additional capital through either equity or debt financing to fund our operations, including any operating losses, and to implement our current or future strategies, including strategic acquisitions. Factors that could increase our need to seek additional financing include decreased demand and market acceptance for our products and services, the inability to successfully develop new products and services, competitive pressures resulting in lower pricing, new products and services offered by our competitors, and acquisition opportunities. In addition, if Hercules accelerates our obligations under the loan and security agreement or when our existing credit facilities expire, we would likely need to obtain replacement debt financing. The capital and credit markets in the United States have recently experienced extreme volatility and disruptions, and the current turmoil affecting the financial markets and the banking system, as well as the possibility that financial institutions may consolidate or go out of business, have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets and a low level of liquidity in many financial markets. These developments have made financing terms materially less attractive and, in some cases, made financing unavailable. As a result, we may be unable to obtain any financing, including both new and replacement financing, that we might require to operate our business. In particular, in this environment, it will be extremely difficult to obtain additional debt financing or to refinance or replace our existing indebtedness. There can be no assurance that additional or replacement debt financing will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we incur additional debt, our interest expense would increase. If we raise capital through the sale of equity securities, the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders would be diluted. Any new equity securities also may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock, including liquidation preferences, dividend rights, board representation, and blocking rights for certain transactions and other matters. If we are unable to obtain additional or replacement financing when we need it, our ability to fund our operations and meet our plans for expansion would be materially adversely affected. The covenants in our credit facility may restrict our operations, which could inhibit our growth strategy and have a negative effect on our results of operations. Even without payment acceleration, restrictions contained in the loan and security agreement could inhibit our ability to obtain financing and engage in other business activities that are important to our business and growth strategies, which could inhibit our ability to operate our business and increase our revenues. Our indebtedness could adversely impact our financial condition. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $25.6 million of total indebtedness, including short-term debt and approximately $9.0 million under our revolving credit facility. We may increase the amount of our indebtedness in the future, which could have an important impact on our stockholders. An increase in our indebtedness could: •cause us to violate certain provisions contained in our credit facility; •make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and limit our flexibility to plan for or react to changes in business and economic conditions; •limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures through increases in our cost of capital; and •harm our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing in the future. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our ability to execute our growth strategy would be impaired and our results of operations could be harmed. 20 Table of Contents Risks Relating to our Business and Industry We have incurred losses in the past and our ability to operate profitably in the future is uncertain. For the year ended December 31, 2008 we generated net revenues of $100,716 and incurred net losses of $13,184. We have incurred net losses in each of the last three years and we may incur additional losses in the future. Even if we achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If our business and revenues grow more slowly than we anticipate, our operating expenses exceed our expectations, we are unable to sell our products and services at acceptable prices relative to our costs, or we fail to develop and introduce on a timely basis new products and services from which we can derive additional revenues, our financial results will suffer. Our revenues and profitability may be adversely affected by deterioration in economic, business or industry conditions. If the economic climate in the U.S. or abroad continues to deteriorate or suffers a prolonged downturn, customers or potential customers could reduce or delay their technology investments. Reduced or delayed technology investments could decrease our sales and profitability. In such an environment, our customers may experience financial difficulty, cease operations or fail to budget or reduce budgets for the purchase of our products and professional services. This may lead to longer sales cycles, delays in purchase decisions, payment and collection, and may also result in downward price pressures, causing our sales and profitability to decline. In addition, general economic uncertainty and general declines in capital spending in the information technology sector make it difficult to predict changes in the purchasing requirements of our customers and the markets we serve. There are many other factors that could affect our revenues and profitability, including: •the introduction and market acceptance of new technologies, products and services; •new competitors and new forms of competition; •adverse changes in the credit quality of our customers and suppliers; •changes in the pricing policies of, or the introduction of, new products and services by us or our competitors; •changes in the terms on which we do business with our customers, suppliers or key relationships; •the availability, pricing, quality, and delivery time of products from our suppliers; and •variations in costs for products and services and the mix of products and services sold. In particular, we serve the healthcare and commercial industries, which are experiencing significant challenges, primarily due to deteriorating macroeconomic conditions that have resulted in a decreased demand for their products and services. Some of our customers are facing constraints on their information technology budgets and are seeking more flexibility in the timing of their purchases from us. As a result of this macroeconomic downturn, some of our customers may face financial challenges in fiscal 2009. It is unclear when the general economic climate will improve and when our customers may benefit from improved conditions. These factors could adversely affect our business, profitability and financial condition and diminish our ability to achieve our strategic objectives. Increasing our profitability and managing our growth are necessary to achieve our strategic objectives. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive. To meet our growth objectives, we believe that we need to continue to add and increasingly emphasize higher-value, proprietary solutions, including mobile managed services, software applications and consulting services. There can be no assurance that we will effectively deploy our initiatives or be successful in obtaining customer acceptance of our current and anticipated higher margin products and services or developing new products and services with higher margins, and if we do not, we would not meet our strategic objectives. 21 Table of Contents In addition, the implementation of our strategic initiatives to improve profitability may have the unintended effect of straining our operations, increasing operating expenses, and adversely affecting our profitability, even if the initiatives are successful. The difficulties associated with implementing these initiatives may place a significant burden on our management and our operational and financial resources. If we fail to successfully implement these initiatives, or encounter unexpected difficulties in that process, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Also, to manage any future growth of our business, we will need to hire, integrate and retain highly skilled and motivated employees. We will also need to continue to improve our financial and management controls, reporting and operational systems and procedures. If we do not effectively manage our growth we may not be able to meet our customers' needs, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations, or be able to meet our strategic objectives. We may engage in acquisitions that could disrupt our business, could be difficult to integrate with our existing operations, cause dilution to our stockholders and harm our business, operating results and financial condition, or we may be unable to find suitable acquisition candidates consistent with our strategic objectives. As part of our acquisition strategy, we acquired the businesses and certain assets of DDMS Holdings, LLC, AMTSystems, Inc., Healthcare Informatics Associates, Inc., Delta Health Systems, Inc. and Aware Interweave, Inc. during 2007 and 2008. While these acquisitions and any future acquisitions may present us with growth opportunities, they involve numerous risks, including: •problems combining the acquired operations, technologies or products; •unanticipated costs; •diversion of management's time and attention from our core business; •adverse effects on existing business relationships with customers and suppliers; •risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; •potential loss of key employees, particularly those of the acquired business; and •continuing obligations to fund earn out payments or to repay acquisition financing. We have limited historical experience with the integration of acquired companies and there can be no assurance that we will be able to manage the integration of acquired businesses effectively or be able to retain and motivate key personnel from these businesses. Any difficulties we encounter in the integration process could divert management from day-to-day responsibilities, increase our expenses and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For future acquisitions, we may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates, and we may not be able to complete acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all, and we may not be able to finance acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all. If we do complete acquisitions, we may not maintain or may weaken our competitive position or may not achieve our goals, or may be viewed negatively by customers, financial commentators or investors. Acquisitions may disrupt our ongoing operations, divert management from day-to-day responsibilities, increase our expenses and adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. Future acquisitions may reduce our cash available for operations and other uses and could result in an increase in amortization expense related to identifiable assets acquired, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt. We depend on retaining our existing senior management team and recruiting and retaining additional senior managers in order to be successful, and the loss of or failure to recruit key executives could materially and adversely affect our business. Our current and future performance depends, in significant part, upon retaining our existing senior management team, whose knowledge, leadership and technical abilities would be difficult to replace and 22 Table of Contents recruiting and retaining qualified senior managers. Our success also depends in part upon the ability of our executives to work effectively together and with the rest of our employees to continue to develop our technologies and services and to manage the operation and potential growth of our business. We also must continue to develop and retain a strong core group of senior executives in order to realize our goal of growing our business and sustaining profitability. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in our efforts. The unplanned loss of the services of one or more of our executives could have an adverse effect on our business and profitability. We are dependent on our allied customers and key industry relationships. We maintain important relationships with hardware and software technology leaders. We regard these relationships as more than traditional customer/supplier relationships and believe they represent an important lead referral source and sales channel for us. There can be no assurance that we or our key relationships can continue to be successful in maintaining relationships with customers or that we or our allied customers could find adequate replacements if needed. The loss of any of these allied customers or key relationships could result in the temporary or permanent cessation of a group of products or solutions and result in the loss of a portion of our existing and anticipated customer base and related revenue. We depend on third-party suppliers and manufacturers to manufacture our infrastructure products. If these third parties experience any delay, disruption or quality control problems in their operations, or cease manufacturing our products, we could lose market share and revenues, and our reputation may be harmed. A substantial portion of our products are manufactured, assembled, tested and packaged by third parties. We rely on several suppliers and manufacturers to procure components and various products that we sell and, in some cases, subcontract engineering work. Some of our products are manufactured by a single manufacturer and, if we were to lose the services of this manufacturer, finding a suitable replacement could prove particularly difficult. In most cases, we do not have long-term contracts with these third parties. If our suppliers and manufacturers encounter financial or other business difficulties, if their strategic objectives change, or if they perceive us to no longer be an attractive customer, they may cease to manufacture our products and our business could be harmed. The loss of the services of any of our primary manufacturers or a material change in the terms on which we do business with them could cause a significant disruption in operations and delays in product shipments, which could adversely impact our cash flow. Qualifying a new manufacturer and commencing volume production is expensive and time consuming. Our reliance on third-party suppliers and manufacturers also exposes us to the following risks over which we have limited control: •inability to procure key required components for our finished products to meet our customers' demands; •unexpected increases in manufacturing and repair costs; •unexpected reductions in payment terms; •interruptions in shipments if one of our manufacturers is unable to complete production; •inability to control the quality of finished products; •inability to control delivery schedules; •inability to obtain favorable pricing; •unpredictability of manufacturing yields; and •potential lack of adequate capacity to manufacture all or a part of the products we require. 23 Table of Contents If we are unable to provide our third-party suppliers and manufacturers with an accurate and timely forecast of our component and material requirements, we may experience delays in the manufacturing of our products and the costs of our products may increase. We provide our third-party suppliers and manufacturers with forecasts of our demand that they use to determine their material and component requirements. Lead times for ordering materials and components vary significantly and depend on various factors, such as the specific supplier, contract terms and demand and supply for a component at a given time. Some of our components require substantial lead times. If our forecasts are less than our actual requirements, or are not delivered in a timely manner, our manufacturers may not be able to manufacture enough products to meet our needs. If our forecasts are too high, our suppliers and manufacturers may be unable to use all of the components they have purchased on our behalf. Therefore, the cost per unit of producing products for us may be higher and those costs may be passed through to us, which could reduce our margins or raise our product prices relative to our competitors. Moreover, if they are unable to use certain components, we may be required to reimburse them for any losses they incur. Our industry is highly competitive, and competitive pressures from existing and new companies may have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, growth rates, market share, and profitability. Our industry is highly competitive and is influenced by many factors, including the following: •advances in technology; •introduction of new products and services; •evolving industry standards; •product improvements; •rapidly changing customer needs; •intellectual property invention and protection; •marketing and distribution capabilities; •competition from highly capitalized companies; •competition from companies with stronger brand recognition; •entrance of new competitors; •customer budget pressure on information technology spending; and •price competition. If we do not keep pace with product and technology advances, our products and services could be rendered obsolete, which would have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, revenues and prospects for growth. There is also likely to be continued pricing pressure as competitors attempt to maintain or increase market share. The products manufactured and marketed by us and our competitors are becoming more complex. As the technological and functional capabilities of our products increase, these products may begin to compete with products being offered by companies that have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and manufacturing resources than we do. We may not be able to compete successfully against these competitors, and competitive pressures may result in a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, growth rates, market share and profitability. We also compete with certain of our key relationships from time to time. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with them, we may be forced to compete directly with them for customers that we previously had served through our relationships. We may also lose our key relationships as customers. Our 24 Table of Contents key relationships generally have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and manufacturing resources than we do and may be able to directly offer their customers solutions similar to those we offer. If we fail to continue to introduce new products and services that achieve sufficient market acceptance on a timely basis, we will not be able to compete effectively and we will be unable to increase or maintain revenues and profitability. Our future success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products, services and technology enhancements that achieve sufficient market acceptance. If we are unable to develop and introduce new products and services that respond to emerging technological trends and customers' critical needs, our profitability and market share may suffer. The process of developing new technology and related services is complex and uncertain, and if we fail to accurately predict customers' changing needs or emerging technological trends, our business could be harmed. We must commit resources to developing new products before knowing whether our investments will result in products the market will accept. We may also have difficulty obtaining the capital resources necessary to develop and introduce new products. We may encounter delays in deploying new or improved products or offering new or improved services. If we expend a significant amount of resources and our efforts do not lead to the successful introduction of new or improved products or services, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, profitability, financial condition and market share. We may encounter delays in manufacturing and producing new products and our new products may not be commercially successful. Demand for existing products may decrease following the announcement of new or improved products. Further, since products under development are often announced before introduction, these announcements may cause customers to delay purchases of our products, even if newly introduced, until new or improved versions of those products are available. If customer orders decrease or are delayed during a product transition, we may experience a decline in revenue. Our profitability might decrease if customers, who may otherwise choose to purchase existing products, instead choose to purchase lower priced models of new products. Delays or deficiencies in the development, manufacturing, and delivery of, or demand for, our new or improved products could have a negative effect on our business and profitability. If we are unsuccessful in expanding our professional services, we may fail to achieve our objectives. We have been expanding our professional services and enhancing our technical knowledge in order to broaden our service offerings. To do so, we have been increasing our in-house talent pool and introducing new models for support and professional services, including through acquisitions of businesses that we believe complement our existing services. We look to leverage new employees that are skilled in our business to reduce our dependence on outside assistance. Our initiatives have included reducing dependence on outside service providers, determining specific methodologies and processes for meeting customer needs, conducting in-house training sessions, and leveraging business partnerships to increase professional services opportunities. These initiatives have required, and will continue to require, significant investment by us, including expenses relating to the recruiting and training of these new employees. There is no assurance that the expansion will improve the sales and profitability of our professional services. Any failure in our ability to offer high-quality support and other services could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. Once our products are integrated within our customers' hardware and software systems, our customers may depend on our support organization to manage those systems and resolve any issues that may arise. A high level of support is critical for the successful marketing and sale of our solutions. If we do not effectively assist our customers in deploying our products, succeed in helping our customers quickly resolve post-deployment issues, and provide effective ongoing support, our ability to sell our solutions to existing customers could be adversely affected, and our reputation with potential customers could be harmed. In addition, as we expand our operations internationally, our support organization will face 25 Table of Contents additional challenges, including those associated with delivering support, training and documentation in languages other than English. Our failure to maintain high-quality support and services, or to adequately assist our key relationships in providing high-quality support and services, could result in customers choosing to use our competitors' products and services instead of ours. The success of our business depends on the continuing development, maintenance and operation of our information technology systems. If we fail to maintain and upgrade our information technology systems to meet the demands of our customers and protect our information technology systems against risks that we cannot control, our business may be adversely affected. We compete for customers based in part on the flexibility and sophistication of our information technology systems. The failure of the hardware or software that supports these systems, the loss of data contained in the systems or the inability to access or interact with our website or connect with our customers electronically, could significantly disrupt our operations, prevent customers from placing orders with us or cause us to lose customers. Although we have redundant systems at a separate location to back up our primary application systems, there can be no assurance that these redundant systems will operate properly if and when required. If our information technology systems are unable to handle additional volume as our business and scope of professional services grows, our service levels and operating efficiency will likely decline. In addition, we expect that our customers will continue to demand increasingly sophisticated information technology systems from us. If we fail to hire or retain qualified persons to implement, maintain and protect our information technology systems, or if we fail to upgrade or replace these systems to handle increased volumes and levels of complexity and meet the increased demands of our customers, our business and profitability may be adversely affected. Our information technology systems are dependent upon global communications providers, web browsers, telephone systems and other aspects of Internet infrastructure which are vulnerable to a variety of threats, including computer viruses and natural disasters. There can be no guarantee that the steps we have taken to protect against those threats will be effective. Any disruption to or infiltration of our information technology systems could significantly harm our business and profitability. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights or if third parties assert we are in violation of their intellectual property rights, we could be prevented from selling our products, the time and attention of management could be diverted from operating our business and our ability to attract new customers and retain current customers could be hampered, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have 19 issued patents in the U.S. and four foreign patents issued related to wearable computers and RFID technology that manages medication delivery and administration. We also have 15 patent applications pending with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and five foreign patent applications related to medication delivery and administration and a proprietary power solution specifically designed for mobile workstations, a system and method for live interactive distance learning, and related mobile wireless computer systems. The patents for which we have received a final issuance have remaining legal lives that vary from 4 to 16 years. We have also developed other proprietary solutions, including form-factor PC technologies designed specifically for low power consumption, handheld and kiosk point of sale devices and several customized software applications. We seek to protect our proprietary information and technology through licensing agreements, third-party nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions, as well as through patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws in the U.S. and similar laws in other countries. There can be no assurance that these protections will be available in all cases or will be adequate to prevent our competitors from copying, reverse engineering or otherwise obtaining and using our technology, proprietary rights or products. 26 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that our competitors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology or design around our proprietary rights. In each case, our ability to compete and to receive licensing revenues could be significantly impaired. To prevent substantial unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights, it may be necessary to prosecute actions for infringement and/or misappropriation of our proprietary rights against third parties. Any such action could result in significant costs and diversion of our resources and management's attention, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in any such action. In addition, third parties may seek to challenge, invalidate or circumvent our patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets, or applications for any of the foregoing. Furthermore, the laws of certain countries in which our products are or may be licensed do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. Third parties may assert claims of infringement of intellectual property rights against us or against our partners for which we may be liable under certain indemnification arrangements. The failure to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms or the entry of an injunction that impairs our ability to market certain products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, profitability or financial condition. Any litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete. We may also be subject to claims from customers for indemnification. Any resulting litigation, regardless of its resolution, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. If it were determined that our products infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others, we would need to obtain licenses from these parties or reengineer our products in order to avoid infringement. We might not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms or at all, or to reengineer our products successfully. Moreover, if we are sued for infringement and lose the suit, we could be required to pay substantial damages or be enjoined from licensing or using the infringing products or technology, or both. Any of these events could cause us to incur significant costs and prevent us from selling our products and could have material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete. We rely upon third parties for technology that is critical to our products, and if we are unable to continue to use this technology and future technology our ability to offer competitive products could be harmed and our costs of production could increase. We obtain non-exclusive software license rights to technologies from third parties that are incorporated into and necessary for the operation and functionality of certain of our products. Because the intellectual property for which we have obtained licenses is available from third parties, barriers to entry for our competitors may be lower than if we owned exclusive rights to these technologies. On the other hand, if a competitor enters into an exclusive arrangement with any of our third-party technology providers, our ability to develop and sell products containing that technology could be severely limited. Our success depends in part on our continued ability to have access to these technologies on commercially reasonable terms. If we do not continue to hold or obtain licenses to use necessary technologies, we may be forced to acquire or develop alternative technology that may be of lower quality or performance standards. This could limit and delay our ability to offer competitive products and increase our costs of production. As a result, our profitability and market share could be harmed. Our products are complex and may contain undetected and unexpected defects, errors or failures. Substantial product defects could result in product recalls, repairs or an increased amount of product returns, loss of market acceptance and damage to our reputation, which in turn could increase our costs, cause us to lose sales and have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Product defects might also result in claims against us by our customers or others. In addition, the occurrence of any defects or errors in these products could result in cancellation of orders, difficulty in collecting accounts receivable, increased service and warranty costs in excess of our estimates, diversion of resources, and increased insurance costs and other losses to our business or to end-users. 27 Table of Contents Incompatibilities, defects or bugs in our products may not be detected until our customers begin to install the products or later. We may need to modify the design of our new or improved products if they have incompatibilities, defects or bugs, which could result in significant expenditures, delays in product purchases or canceled orders. Because we often sell our products on a purchase order basis, we are subject to uncertainties and variability in demand from our customers. We sell our mobile workstations and other devices on a purchase order basis rather than pursuant to long-term contracts or contracts with minimum purchase requirements. Consequently, the level and timing of our sales are subject to variations in demand from our customers. Orders can be cancelled, reduced or delayed due to customer budget cycles, the introduction or anticipated introduction of new products or technologies or general economic conditions. Generally, sales are sequentially down in the first quarter from the fourth quarter, higher in the second quarter, flat or slightly higher or lower in the third quarter, and strongest in the fourth quarter. If we are unable to anticipate and respond to the demands of our customers, our business, financial position and operating results may be adversely affected. Our products are subject to certain government regulations and noncompliance with, or a change in, those regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our products are subject to regulation by federal, state and local agencies in the U.S. and agencies in certain foreign countries where our products are manufactured or sold. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain compliance with these regulations, particularly if they were to change. Regulatory changes may require us to make modifications to certain of our products in order for us to continue to be able to manufacture and market our products, which could result in unanticipated costs and delays. Our failure to comply with these regulations, or delays resulting from modifications in order to come into compliance, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our growth objectives may depend on our ability to manage successfully potential international expansion. We intend to expand our geographic presence to non-U.S. markets, including Europe, the Middle East, Asia, and other emerging centers of healthcare and commercial activity. This expansion will require significant management attention and financial resources. We currently have limited experience in marketing and distributing our products internationally and in developing versions of products that comply with local standards and languages. We may also not be able to maintain or increase international market demand for our products. International operations are subject to other inherent risks, including foreign government regulation of technology or unexpected changes in regulatory and customs requirements, difficulty and delays in accounts receivable collection, difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations, reduced protection for intellectual property rights, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, and tax consequences. Armed hostilities, terrorism, natural disasters, or public health issues could harm our business. Armed hostilities, terrorism, natural disasters, or public health issues, whether in the U.S. or abroad, could cause damage or disruption to us, our suppliers or customers, or could create political or economic instability, any of which could harm our business. Any such events could, among other things, cause further instability in financial markets and could directly, or indirectly through reduced demand, negatively affect our facilities and operations or those of our customers or suppliers. If our customers experience any disruptions in the solutions that we provide to them as a result of any such events, we may not be successful in alleviating the disruptions, particularly if many customers are affected by any of these events. 28 Table of Contents Our directors and executive officers beneficially own a substantial number of shares of our common stock, which give them significant control over certain major decisions. As of March 31, 2009, our directors and executive officers beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 48.5% of our outstanding common stock. The interests of these stockholders may differ from the interests of other stockholders. As a result of their significant ownership, these stockholders will have significant control over all corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, irrespective of how our other stockholders may vote, including the following actions: •electing or defeating the election of our directors; •amending or preventing amendment of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws; •effecting or preventing a merger, sale of assets or other corporate transaction; and •controlling the outcome of any other matter submitted to our stockholders for a vote. The stock ownership of our directors and executive officers may discourage a potential acquiror from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could reduce our stock price or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over the market price of our stock. Risks Relating to our Common Stock Our stock may be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market if the closing bid price for our common stock is not maintained at $1.00 per share or higher. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market ("NASDAQ"), which imposes, among other requirements, a minimum bid requirement. The price of our common stock must trade at or above $1.00 to comply with NASDAQ's minimum bid requirement for continued listing. Our common stock has been trading below $1.00 per since October 28, 2008. On October 16, 2008, NASDAQ announced the immediate suspension of its enforcement of the rules requiring a minimum $1.00 closing bid price and that it will not take any action to delist any security that fails to comply with the minimum $1.00 closing bid price requirement until January 19, 2009 and, on March 23, 2009, NASDAQ extended the rule suspension until July 19, 2009. Consequently, for as long as NASDAQ's rule suspension remains in effect, NASDAQ will not delist our stock if the closing bid price for our common stock remains below $1.00 per share during the rule suspension period. If the closing bid price of our common stock continues to fail to meet NASDAQ's minimum closing bid price requirement at any time on or after July 20, 2009, or if we otherwise fail to meet all other applicable NASDAQ requirements, NASDAQ may make a determination to delist our common stock. Any such delisting could adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock and the market price of our common stock could decrease and could also adversely affect our ability to obtain financing for the continuation of our operations and/or result in the loss of confidence by investors, customers, suppliers and employees. Applicable SEC rules governing the trading of "penny stocks" may limit the liquidity of our common stock which may affect its trading price. Our common stock may be considered a "penny stock" and be subject to SEC rules and regulations that impose limitations upon the manner in which our shares may be publicly traded. These regulations require the delivery, before any transaction involving a penny stock, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the associated risks. Under these regulations, certain brokers who recommend penny stocks to persons other than established customers or certain accredited investors must make a special written suitability determination regarding the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to a transaction before a sale. These regulations could have the effect of limiting the trading activity of our common stock and reducing the liquidity of an investment in our common stock. Therefore, our stockholders may find it difficult to obtain accurate quotations of our common stock and/or to sell their shares. 29 Table of Contents The market price of our common stock may continue to be highly volatile and continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors that are beyond our control, including: •announcements of new products or services by our competitors; •quarterly variations in our revenues and operating expenses; •our announcements of technological innovations or new products or professional services; •sales of common stock by our directors and management; and •continuing uncertainty and adverse developments in the overall stock market. If a substantial number of our shares of common stock are sold in a short period of time, the market price of our shares of common stock could decline significantly. Although our common stock is listed on NASDAQ, it does not have a high average trading volume. For example, throughout 2008 our average daily trading volume was approximately 17,000 shares. Our low trading volume may continue to cause the price of our common stock to be volatile. The last reported sale price of our common stock on NASDAQ on March 26, 2009 was $0.49. A decline in the price of shares of our common stock might impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other equity securities. There may be a limited public market for our securities. Although we are listed on NASDAQ, there can be no assurance that the trading of our common stock will be sustained. If our common stock fails to qualify for continued listing on NASDAQ or for listing on another registered stock exchange, trading, if any, in our common stock would be conducted on the OTC Bulletin Board or in what are commonly referred to as "pink sheets." As a result, our stockholders may find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our common stock, and our common stock would become substantially less attractive for margin loans, for investment by financial institutions, as consideration in future capital raising transactions or other purposes. An active public market for shares of our common stock may not develop, or if one should develop, it may not be sustained. Therefore, our stockholders may not be able to find purchasers for their shares of our common stock. We do not expect to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to support the development and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any payment of future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including but not limited to our financial condition, operating results, cash needs, growth plans and the terms of any credit agreements that we may be a party to at the time. Our loan and security agreement with Hercules Technology Growth Capital, Inc. currently restricts our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. Accordingly, our stockholders must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to make a positive return on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price. Effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important in helping prevent financial fraud. If we are unable to achieve and maintain adequate internal controls, our business and operating results could be harmed. We 30 Table of Contents completed our second year of documentation and testing of our internal control procedures to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, which require, among other things, our management to assess annually the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, beginning with our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, and our independent registered public accounting firm to issue a report on the effectiveness of our internal controls. If our management or our registered public accounting firm were to conclude in their 2009 reports that our internal control over financial reporting was inadequate, our stockholders could lose confidence in our reported financial information and the trading price of our stock could drop significantly. Provisions in our organizational documents and under Delaware law may delay or prevent attempts by our stockholders to change our management and hinder efforts to acquire a controlling interest in us. Certain provisions of our bylaws are intended to strengthen our board of director's position in the event of a hostile takeover attempt. These provisions have the effect of providing our board of directors with the sole power to fill vacancies on our board of directors and providing that stockholders may only call a special meeting by the request, in writing, of stockholders owning individually or together ten percent or more of our entire capital stock outstanding and entitled to vote. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person which together with its affiliates owns or within the last three years has owned 15% of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Accordingly, Section 203 may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 