ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our publicly traded securities. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies, such as competition, technological obsolescence, labor relations, general economic conditions, geopolitical events and international operations. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations and our liquidity. Risks Relating to Our Business Conditions in the global economy and global capital markets may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Starting in 2008 and continuing in 2009, the U.S and global economy have undergone a sudden, sharp economic downturn. Global credit and capital markets have experienced unprecedented volatility and disruption, and business credit and liquidity have tightened in much of the world. Consumer confidence and spending are down significantly and the rates of unemployment and underemployment are increasing. As a result of current economic conditions, including turmoil and uncertainty in the capital markets, credit markets have tightened significantly such that the ability to obtain new capital has become more challenging and more expensive. Several large financial institutions have either recently failed or been dependent on the assistance of the U.S. federal government to continue to operate as a going concern. It is difficult to determine the breadth and duration of the economic and financial market problems and the many ways in which they may affect our suppliers, customers and business in general. Nonetheless, continuation or further worsening of these difficult financial and macroeconomic conditions could have a significant adverse effect on our sales, profitability and results of operations. Our business and operating results for 2008 were affected by these global economic issues, and we expect that trend to continue in 2009. Many of our customers have experienced (and will likely continue to experience) deterioration of their business. They may experience cash flow shortages and may have difficulty obtaining financing. As a result, our customers may delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and may not be able to fulfill their payment obligations to us in a timely fashion. Our suppliers may be experiencing similar conditions which could impact their ability to supply us with raw materials and otherwise fulfill their 12 Table of Contents Koppers Holdings Inc. 2008 Annual Report obligations to us. If the global economic recession continues for an extended period or deteriorates significantly, there could be a material adverse effect to our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, we rely on our $300.0 million revolving credit agreement with a consortium of banks to provide us with liquidity to meet our working capital needs. At December 31, 2008, we had $283.0 million of available borrowing capacity under this arrangement. In addition, as of December 31, 2008, we had $200.0 million aggregate amount of common stock, debt securities, preferred stock, depositary shares and warrants (or a combination of these securities) available to be issued under our registration statement on Form S-3 filed in 2007. We could seek to issue these securities to provide additional liquidity. Our ability to fund our liquidity needs and working capital requirements could be impacted in the event that disruptions in the credit markets result in the banks being unable to lend to us under our revolving credit agreement or disruptions in the U.S. financial markets prevent us from issuing new securities under our registration statement. Global economic issues could prevent us from accurately forecasting demand for our products which could have a material effect on our results of operations and our financial condition. Adverse global economic issues, market instability and volatile commodity price fluctuations make it increasingly difficult for us, our customers and our suppliers to accurately forecast future product demands, which could cause us to procure raw materials in excess of end-product demand. This could cause a material increase to our inventory carrying costs and result in significant inventory lower of cost or market charges. We may be required to recognize impairment charges for our long-lived assets. At December 31, 2008, the net carrying value of long-lived assets (property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets) totaled approximately $232.7 million. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we periodically assess these assets to determine if they are impaired. Significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, divestitures and market capitalization declines may result in impairments to goodwill and other long-lived assets. Future impairment charges could significantly affect our results of operations in the periods recognized. Impairment charges would also reduce our stockholders’ equity and could affect compliance with the covenants in our debt agreements. We may not be able to compete successfully in any or all of the industry segments in which we operate. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, and this competition could harm our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. If we are unable to respond successfully to changing competitive conditions, the demand for our products could be affected. We believe that the most significant competitive factor for our products is selling price. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources and larger capitalization than we do. Demand for our products is cyclical and we may experience prolonged depressed market conditions for our products. Our products are sold primarily in mature markets which historically have been cyclical, such as the aluminum, specialty chemical and utility industries. ¡ The principal consumers of our carbon pitch are primary aluminum smelters. Although the aluminum industry has experienced growth on a long-term basis, there may be cyclical periods of weak demand which could result in decreased primary aluminum production. Our pitch sales have historically declined during such cyclical periods of weak global demand for aluminum. ¡ The principal use of our phthalic anhydride is in the manufacture of plasticizers and flexible vinyl, which are used mainly in the housing and automobile industries. Therefore, a decline in remodeling and construction or global automobile production could reduce the demand for phthalic anhydride. ¡ Over the last several years, utility pole demand has declined as utilities in the United States and Australia have reduced spending due to competitive pressures arising from deregulation. Deregulation may continue to negatively affect both the new and replacement pole installation markets. We are currently experiencing significant volatility linked to global economic issues that we more fully discuss in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 13 Table of Contents We are dependent on major customers for a significant portion of our net sales, and the loss of one or more of our major customers could result in a significant reduction in our profitability. For the year ended December 31, 2008, our top ten customers accounted for approximately 50 percent of our net sales. During this period, our two largest customers each accounted for ten percent and eight percent, respectively, of our total net sales. The permanent loss of, or a significant decrease in the level of purchases by, one or more of our major customers could result in a significant reduction in our profitability. Our largest customer has significantly reduced their purchases of carbon pitch starting in the fourth quarter of 2008. We believe that this reduction is linked to global economic issues that we more fully discuss in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Fluctuations in the price, quality and availability of our primary raw materials could reduce our profitability. Our operations depend on an adequate supply of quality raw materials being available on a timely basis. The loss of a key source of supply or a delay in shipments could cause a significant increase in our operating expenses. For example, our operations are highly dependent on a relatively small number of freight transportation services. We are also dependent on utilizing specialized ocean-going transport vessels that we lease to deliver raw materials to our facilities and finished goods to our customers. Interruptions in such freight services could impair our ability to receive raw materials and ship finished products in a timely manner. We are also exposed to price and quality risks associated with raw material purchases. Such risks include the following: ¡ The primary raw material used by our Carbon Materials & Chemicals business is coal tar, a by-product of furnace coke production. A shortage in the supply of domestic coal tar or a reduction in the quality of coal tar could require us to increase coal tar and carbon pitch imports, as well as the use of petroleum substitutes to meet future carbon pitch demand. This could cause a significant increase in our operating expenses if we are unable to pass these costs on to our customers. Currently, we are experiencing reduced receipts of coal tar as furnace coke producers have significantly reduced the production of furnace coke due to global economic issues that we more fully discuss in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. ¡ In certain circumstances coal tar may also be used as an alternative to fuel. In the past, increases in energy prices have resulted in higher coal tar costs which we have attempted to pass through to our customers. If these increased costs cannot be passed through to our customers, it could result in margin reductions for our coal tar-based products. ¡ The availability and cost of softwood and hardwood lumber are critical elements in our production of pole products and railroad crossties, respectively. The supply of trees of acceptable size for the production of utility poles has decreased in recent years in relation to the demand, and we have been required to pay a higher price for these materials. Historically, the supply and cost of hardwood for railroad crossties have also been subject to availability and price pressures. We may not be able to source wood raw materials at economical prices in the future. ¡ Our price realizations and profit margins for phthalic anhydride have historically fluctuated with the price of orthoxylene and its relationship to our cost to produce naphthalene; however, during periods of excess supplies of phthalic anhydride, margins may be reduced despite high levels for orthoxylene prices. If the costs of raw materials increase significantly and we are unable to offset the increased costs with higher selling prices, our profitability will decline. Our products may be rendered obsolete or less attractive by changes in regulatory, legislative or industry requirements. Changes in regulatory, legislative or industry requirements may render certain of our products obsolete or less attractive. Our ability to anticipate changes in these requirements, especially changes in regulatory standards, will be a significant factor in our ability to remain competitive. We may not be able to comply in the future with new regulatory, legislative and/or industrial standards that may be necessary for us to remain competitive and certain of our products may, as a result, become obsolete or less attractive to our customers. 14 Table of Contents Koppers Holdings Inc. 2008 Annual Report The development of new technologies or changes in our customers’ products could reduce the demand for our products. Our products are used for a variety of applications by our customers. Changes in our customers’ products or processes may enable our customers to reduce consumption of the products we produce or make our products unnecessary. Customers may also find alternative materials or processes that no longer require our products. For example, in 2000 our largest carbon pitch customer announced that it was actively pursuing alternative anode technology that would eliminate the need for carbon pitch as an anode binder. The potential development and implementation of this new technology could seriously impair our ability to profitably market carbon pitch and related co-products. A substantial portion of our carbon pitch is sold to the aluminum industry under long-term contracts typically ranging from three to five years. If a new technology were developed that replaced the need for carbon pitch in the production of carbon anodes, it is possible that these contracts would not be renewed in the future. Hazards associated with chemical manufacturing may cause suspensions or interruptions of our operations. Due to the nature of our business, we are exposed to the hazards associated with chemical manufacturing and the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products and wastes in our manufacturing facilities or our distribution centers, such as fires, explosions and accidents that could lead to an interruption or suspension of operations. Any disruption could reduce the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility or of our company as a whole. Other hazards include the following: ¡ piping and storage tank leaks and ruptures; ¡ mechanical failure; ¡ exposure to hazardous substances; and ¡ chemical spills and other discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases. These hazards, among others, may cause personal injury and loss of life, damage to property and contamination of the environment, which could lead to government fines or work stoppage injunctions, cleanup costs and lawsuits by injured persons. While we are unable to predict the outcome of such matters, if determined adversely to us, we may not have adequate insurance to cover related costs or liabilities and, if not, we may not have sufficient cash flow to pay for such costs or liabilities. Such outcomes could harm our customer goodwill and reduce our profitability. We are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations and may incur significant costs as a result of continued compliance with, violations of or liabilities under environmental laws and regulations. Like other companies involved in environmentally sensitive businesses, our operations and properties are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including those concerning the following, among other things: ¡ the treatment, storage and disposal of wastes; ¡ the investigation and remediation of contaminated soil and groundwater; ¡ the discharge of effluents into waterways; ¡ the emission of substances into the air; ¡ the marketing, sale, use and registration of our chemical products, such as creosote; and ¡ other matters relating to environmental protection and various health and safety matters. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant costs to comply with environmental laws and as a result of remedial obligations. We could incur significant costs, including cleanup costs, fines, civil and criminal sanctions and claims by third parties for property damage and personal injury, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws and regulations. We accrue for environmental liabilities when a determination can be made that they are probable and reasonably estimable. Total environmental reserves at December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007 were $11.7 million and $12.5 million, respectively, which include provisions primarily for environmental fines and remediation. For the last three fiscal years, our annual capital expenditures in connection with environmental control facilities averaged approximately $6.0 million, and annual operating expenses for environmental matters, excluding depreciation, averaged approximately $12.8 million. Management 15 Table of Contents estimates that capital expenditures in connection with matters relating to environmental control facilities will be approximately $10.2 million for 2009. Contamination has been identified and is being investigated and remediated at many of our sites by us or other parties. Actual costs and liabilities to us may exceed forecasted amounts. Moreover, currently unknown environmental issues, such as the discovery of additional contamination or the imposition of additional sampling or cleanup obligations with respect to our sites or third party sites, may result in significant additional costs, and potentially significant expenditures could be required in order to comply with future changes to environmental laws and regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof. We also are involved in various litigation and proceedings relating to environmental matters and toxic tort claims which are described in detail in Note 19 of the consolidated financial statements. Beazer East and Beazer Limited may not continue to meet their obligations to indemnify us. Under the terms of the asset purchase agreement between us and Koppers Company, Inc. (now known as Beazer East, Inc.) upon the formation of Koppers Inc. in 1988, subject to certain limitations, Beazer East and Beazer Limited assumed the liability for and indemnified us against (among other things) certain clean-up liabilities for contamination occurring prior to the purchase date at sites acquired from Beazer East and third-party claims arising from such contamination (the “Indemnity”). Beazer East and Beazer Limited (which are indirect subsidiaries of Heidelberg Cement AG) may not continue to meet their obligations. In addition, Beazer East could in the future choose to challenge its obligations under the Indemnity or our satisfaction of the conditions to indemnification imposed on us thereunder. In addition, the government and other third parties also have the right under applicable environmental laws to seek relief directly from us for any and all such costs and liabilities. In July 2004, we entered into an agreement with Beazer East to amend the December 29, 1988 asset purchase agreement to provide, among other things, for the continued tender of pre-closing environmental liabilities to Beazer East under the Indemnity through July 2019. As consideration for the agreement, we agreed to pay Beazer East a total of $7.0 million in four installments over three years and to share toxic tort litigation defense costs arising from any sites acquired from Beazer East. Qualified expenditures under the Indemnity are not subject to a monetary limit. The Indemnity provides for the resolution of issues between Koppers Inc. and Beazer East by an arbitrator on an expedited basis upon the request of either party. The arbitrator could be asked, among other things, to make a determination regarding the allocation of environmental responsibilities between Koppers Inc. and Beazer East. Arbitration decisions under the Indemnity are final and binding on the parties. Periodically, issues have arisen between Koppers Inc. and Beazer East and/or other indemnitors that have been resolved without arbitration. From time to time, Koppers Inc. and Beazer East have engaged in discussions that involve, among other things, the allocation of environmental costs related to certain operating and closed facilities. Without reimbursement under the Indemnity, the obligation to pay the costs and assume the liabilities relating to these matters would have a significant impact on our net income. Furthermore, without reimbursement, we could be required to record a contingent liability on our balance sheets with respect to environmental matters covered by the Indemnity, which could result in our having significant negative net worth. Finally, the Indemnity does not afford us indemnification against environmental costs and liabilities attributable to acts or omissions occurring after the closing of the acquisition of assets from Beazer East under the asset purchase agreement, nor is the Indemnity applicable to liabilities arising in connection with other acquisitions by us after that closing. The insurance that we maintain may not fully cover all potential exposures. We maintain property, casualty, general liability and workers’ compensation insurance, but such insurance may not cover all risks associated with the hazards of our business and is subject to limitations, including deductibles and maximum liabilities covered. We may incur losses beyond the limits, or outside the coverage, of our insurance policies, including liabilities for environmental compliance and remediation. In addition, from time to time, various types of insurance for companies in our industry have not been available on commercially acceptable terms or, in some cases, have not been available at all. In the future, we may not be able to obtain coverage at current levels, and our premiums may increase significantly on coverage that we maintain. Adverse weather conditions may reduce our operating results. Our quarterly operating results fluctuate due to a variety of factors that are outside our control, including inclement weather conditions, which in the past have caused a decline in our operating results. For example, adverse weather conditions have at 16 Table of Contents Koppers Holdings Inc. 2008 Annual Report times negatively impacted our supply chain as wet conditions impacted logging operations, reducing our ability to procure crossties. In addition, adverse weather conditions have had a negative impact on our customers in the pavement sealer businesses, resulting in a negative impact on our sales of these products. Moreover, demand for many of our products declines during periods of inclement weather. We are subject to risks inherent in foreign operations, including changes in social, political and economic conditions. We have operations in the United States, Australia, China and Europe, and sell our products in many foreign countries. For the year ended December 31, 2008, net sales from products sold by our foreign subsidiaries accounted for approximately 38 percent of our total net sales. Like other global companies, we are exposed to market risks relating to fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. Our international revenues could be reduced by currency fluctuations or devaluations. Changes in currency exchange rates could lower our reported revenues and could require us to reduce our prices to remain competitive in foreign markets, which could also reduce our profitability. We have not historically hedged our financial statement exposure and, as a result, we could incur unanticipated losses. We are also subject to potentially increasing transportation and shipping costs associated with international operations. Furthermore, we are also exposed to risks associated with changes in the laws and policies governing foreign investments in countries where we have operations as well as, to a lesser extent, changes in U.S. laws and regulations relating to foreign trade and investment. Our strategy to selectively pursue complementary acquisitions may present unforeseen integration obstacles or costs. Our business strategy includes the potential acquisition of businesses and entering into joint ventures and other business combinations that we expect would complement and expand our existing products and the markets where we sell our products. We may not be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition or joint venture opportunities or complete any particular acquisition, combination, joint venture or other transaction on acceptable terms. We cannot predict the timing and success of our efforts to acquire any particular business and integrate the acquired business into our existing operations. Also, efforts to acquire other businesses or the implementation of other elements of this business strategy may divert managerial resources away from our business operations. In addition, our ability to engage in strategic acquisitions may depend on our ability to raise substantial capital and we may not be able to raise the funds necessary to implement our acquisition strategy on terms satisfactory to us, if at all. Our failure to identify suitable acquisition or joint venture opportunities may restrict our ability to grow our business. In addition, we may not be able to successfully integrate businesses that we acquire in the future, which could lead to increased operating costs, a failure to realize anticipated operating synergies, or both. Litigation against us could be costly and time-consuming to defend, and due to the nature of our business and products, we may be liable for damages arising out of our acts or omissions, which may have a material adverse affect on us. We produce chemicals that require appropriate procedures and care to be used in handling them or using them to manufacture other products. As a result of the nature of some of the products we use and produce, we may face product liability, toxic tort and other claims relating to incidents involving the handling, storage and use of and exposure to our products. For example, we are a defendant in a significant number of lawsuits in which the plaintiffs claim they have suffered a variety of illnesses (including cancer) and/or property damage as a result of exposure to coal tar pitch, benzene, wood treatment chemicals and other chemicals, including certain cases in state and federal court relating to our Grenada, Mississippi and Somerville, Texas facilities. A further description of the material claims against us is included in Note 19 of the consolidated financial statements. We are indemnified for certain product liability exposures under the Indemnity with Beazer East related to products sold prior to the closing of the acquisition of assets from Beazer East. Beazer East and Beazer Limited may not continue to meet their obligations under the Indemnity. In addition, Beazer East could choose to challenge its obligations under the Indemnity or our satisfaction of the conditions to indemnification imposed on us thereunder. If for any reason (including disputed coverage or financial incapability) one or more of such parties fail to perform their obligations and we are held liable for or otherwise required to pay all or part of such liabilities without reimbursement, the imposition of such liabilities on us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and 17 Table of Contents results of operations. Furthermore, we could be required to record a contingent liability on our balance sheets with respect to such matters, which could result in us having significant additional negative net worth. In addition to the above, we are regularly subject to legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business, such as workers’ compensation claims, governmental investigations, employment disputes, and customer and supplier disputes arising out of the conduct of our business. Litigation could result in substantial costs and may divert management’s attention and resources away from the day-to-day operation of our business. Labor disputes could disrupt our operations and divert the attention of our management and may cause a decline in our production and a reduction in our profitability. Of our employees, approximately 65 percent are represented by approximately 15 different labor unions and are covered under numerous labor agreements. The United Steelworkers of America currently represent approximately 350 of our employees at six of our facilities and, therefore, represent the largest number of our unionized employees. The four labor agreements that expire in 2009 cover approximately 16 percent of our total workforce. We may not be able to reach new agreements without union action or on terms satisfactory to us. Any future labor disputes with any such unions could result in strikes or other labor protests, which could disrupt our operations and divert the attention of our management from operating our business. If we were to experience a strike or work stoppage, it may be difficult for us to find a sufficient number of employees with the necessary skills to replace these employees. Any such labor disputes could cause a decline in our production and a reduction in our profitability. Our post-retirement obligations are currently underfunded. We expect to make significant cash payments to our pension and other post-retirement plans, which will reduce the cash available for our business. As of December 31, 2008, our benefit obligation under our defined benefit pension plans exceeded the fair value of plan assets by approximately $63.5 million. Our pension asset funding to total pension obligation ratio was 64 percent as of December 31, 2008. The underfunding was caused, in large part, by fluctuations in the financial markets that have caused the value of the assets in our defined benefit pension plans to be significantly lower than anticipated. For example, our pension assets declined in value by $43.0 million during 2008. In addition, our obligations for other post-retirement benefit obligations are unfunded and total $13.6 million at December 31, 2008. During the years ended December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, we contributed $3.3 million and $13.5 million, respectively, to our post-retirement benefit plans. In 2009, we estimate that mandatory funding obligations will be approximately $3 million for all of our post-retirement plans. With respect to our U.S. defined benefit pension plan which is our largest plan, we have no mandatory funding obligation in 2009. However, we estimate that mandatory funding for this plan will be approximately $20 million in 2010 and $30 million in 2011 unless legislative relief is granted. Management expects that any future obligations under our post-retirement benefit plans that are not currently funded will be funded from our future cash flow from operations. If our contributions to our post-retirement benefit plans are insufficient to fund the post-retirement benefit plans adequately to cover our future obligations, the performance of the assets in our pension plans does not meet our expectations or other actuarial assumptions or mandatory funding laws are modified, our contributions to our post-retirement benefit plans could be materially higher than we expect, thus reducing the cash available for our business. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which could harm our ability to operate our business, remain in compliance with debt covenants, make payments on our debt and pay dividends. As of December 31, 2008, we and our subsidiaries had approximately $374.9 million of indebtedness (excluding trade payables and intercompany indebtedness), consisting primarily of our Senior Discount Notes and the Koppers Inc.’s Senior Secured Notes. The degree to which we are leveraged could have important consequences, including the following: ¡ our ability to satisfy our obligations under our debt could be affected and any failure to comply with the requirements, including financial and other restrictive covenants, of any of our debt agreements could result in an event of default under the agreements governing such indebtedness; 18 Table of Contents Koppers Holdings Inc. 2008 Annual Report ¡ a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations will be required to make interest and principal payments and may not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes; ¡ our ability to obtain additional financing in the future may be impaired; ¡ we may be more highly leveraged than our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; ¡ our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry may be limited; ¡ our degree of leverage may make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business, our industry or the economy in general; and ¡ our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders may be impaired. Furthermore, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. If we incur additional indebtedness, the magnitude of the risks associated with our substantial leverage, including our ability to service our debt, would increase. Restrictions in our debt agreements could limit our growth and our ability to respond to changing conditions and, in the event of a default, all of these borrowings become immediately due and payable. Koppers Inc.’s revolving credit facility and the indentures governing our Senior Discount Notes and Koppers Inc.’s Senior Secured Notes contain a number of significant covenants in addition to covenants restricting the incurrence of additional debt. Among other things these covenants limit our ability to ¡ incur or guarantee additional debt and issue certain types of preferred stock; ¡ pay dividends on our capital stock or redeem, repurchase or retire our capital stock or subordinated debt; ¡ make investments; ¡ create liens on our assets; ¡ enter into sale and leaseback transactions; ¡ sell assets; ¡ engage in transactions with our affiliates; ¡ create restrictions on the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments to us; ¡ consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries; and ¡ transfer or issue shares of stock of subsidiaries. In addition, Koppers Inc.’s revolving credit facility contains other and more restrictive covenants. Additionally, it requires us to maintain certain financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests and require us to take action to reduce our debt or take some other action to comply with them. These restrictions could limit our ability to obtain future financings, make needed capital expenditures, withstand a downturn in our business or the economy in general or otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. We may also be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the limitations that the restrictive covenants under Koppers Inc.’s revolving credit facility and the indentures governing our Senior Discount Notes and Koppers Inc.’s Senior Secured Notes impose on us. A breach of any of these covenants would result in a default under the applicable debt agreement. A default, if not waived, could result in acceleration of the debt outstanding under that agreement and in a default with respect to, and acceleration of, the debt outstanding under our other debt agreements and the indentures governing our Senior Discount Notes and Senior Secured Notes. The accelerated debt would become immediately due and payable. If that should occur, we may not be able to pay all such debt or to borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. This would result in a significant interruption in our business operations, which would negatively impact the market price of our common stock. Even if new financing were then available, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. We may incur significant charges in the event we close all or part of a manufacturing plant or facility. We periodically assess our manufacturing operations in order to manufacture and distribute our products in the most efficient manner. Based on our assessments, we may make capital improvements to modernize certain units, move manufacturing or 19 Table of Contents distribution capabilities from one plant or facility to another plant or facility, discontinue manufacturing or distributing certain products or close all or part of a manufacturing plant or facility. We depend on our senior management team and the loss of any member could adversely affect our operations. Our success is dependent on the management, experience and leadership skills of our senior management team. Our senior management team has an average of over 20 years of industry experience. The loss of any of these individuals or an inability to attract, retain and maintain additional personnel with similar industry experience could prevent us from implementing our business strategy. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing senior management personnel or to attract additional qualified personnel when needed. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Our stock price may be extremely volatile. There has been significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of equity securities, which is unrelated to the financial performance of the companies issuing the securities. These broad market fluctuations may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Some specific factors that may have a significant effect on our common stock market price include the following: ¡ actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results or future prospects; ¡ the public’s reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC; ¡ strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; ¡ new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; ¡ changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; ¡ adverse conditions in the financial markets or general economic conditions, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism and responses to such events; ¡ sales of common stock by us, members of our management team or a significant shareholder; and ¡ changes in stock market analyst recommendations or earnings estimates regarding our common stock, other comparable companies or the aluminum or railroad industry generally. Prior to the initial public offering which closed on February 6, 2006, there was no public market for our common stock. We cannot predict the extent to which investor interest in our company will continue to support an active trading market on the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”) or otherwise or how liquid that market will continue to be. If there does not continue to be an active trading market for our common stock, you may have difficulty selling any of our common stock that you buy. Future sales, or the perception of future sales, of a substantial amount of our common stock may depress the price of the shares of our common stock. As of January 31, 2009, there were 20,428,727 shares of our common stock outstanding. Future sales, or the perception or the availability for sale in the public market, of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through future sales of equity securities at a time and price that we deem appropriate. We may issue shares of our common stock, or other securities, from time to time as consideration for future acquisitions and investments. We may also issue shares of our common stock, or other securities, in connection with employee stock compensation programs and board of directors’ compensation. In addition, we may issue shares of our common stock or other securities in public or private offerings as part of our efforts to raise additional capital. In the event any such acquisition, investment, issuance under stock compensation programs or offering is significant, the number of shares of our common stock or the number or aggregate principal amount, as the case may be, of other securities that we may issue may in turn be significant. We may also grant registration rights covering those shares or other securities in connection with any such acquisitions and investments. Any additional capital raised through the sale of our equity securities may dilute your percentage ownership in us. 20 Table of Contents Koppers Holdings Inc. 2008 Annual Report You may not receive dividends because our board of directors could, in its discretion, depart from or change our dividend policy at any time, because of restrictions in our debt agreements or because of restrictions imposed by Pennsylvania law. We are not required to pay dividends, and our shareholders are not guaranteed, and do not have contractual rights, to receive dividends. Our board of directors may decide at any time, in its discretion, to decrease the amount of dividends, otherwise change or revoke the dividend policy or discontinue entirely the payment of dividends. Our board of directors could depart from or change our dividend policy, for example, if it were to determine that we had insufficient cash to take advantage of other opportunities with attractive rates of return or if we failed to reach a sufficient level of profitability. In addition, if we do not pay dividends, for whatever reason, your shares of our common stock could become less liquid and the market price of our common stock could decline. The ability of Koppers Inc. and its subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments or distributions to us will depend on our operating results and may be restricted by, among other things, the covenants in Koppers Inc.’s revolving credit facility. Our ability to pay dividends is limited by the indentures governing our and Koppers Inc.’s outstanding notes as well as Pennsylvania law and may in the future be limited by the covenants of any future outstanding indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur. If a dividend is paid in violation of Pennsylvania law, each director approving the dividend could be liable to the corporation if the director did not act with such care as a person of ordinary prudence would use under similar circumstances. Directors are entitled to rely in good faith on information provided by employees of the corporation and experts retained by the corporation. Directors who are held liable would be entitled to contribution from any shareholders who received an unlawful dividend knowing it to be unlawful. Furthermore, we are a holding company with no operations, and unless we receive dividends, distributions, advances, transfers of funds or other payments from our subsidiaries, we will be unable to pay dividends on our common stock. Provisions of our charter documents may inhibit a takeover, which could negatively affect our stock price. Provisions of our charter documents and the Business Corporation Law of Pennsylvania, the state in which we are organized, could discourage potential acquisition proposals or make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of our company, even if doing so might be beneficial to our shareholders. Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws provide for various procedural and other requirements that could make it more difficult for shareholders to effect certain corporate actions. For example, our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation, or our Articles of Incorporation, authorizes our board of directors to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of unissued series of preferred stock without any vote or action by our shareholders. Our board of directors can therefore authorize and issue shares of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting or other rights of holders of our common stock. The following additional provisions could make it more difficult for shareholders to effect certain corporate actions: ¡ Our board of directors is classified into three classes. Each director will serve a three-year term and will stand for re-election once every three years. ¡ Our shareholders will be able to remove directors only for cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote in the election of directors. Vacancies on our board of directors may be filled only by our board of directors. ¡ Under Pennsylvania law, cumulative voting rights are available to the holders of our common stock if our Articles of Incorporation have not negated cumulative voting. Our Articles of Incorporation provide that our shareholders do not have the right to cumulative votes in the election of directors. ¡ Our Articles of Incorporation do not permit shareholder action without a meeting by consent except for the unanimous consent of all holders of our common stock. It also provides that special meetings of our shareholders may be called only by the board of directors or the chairman of the board of directors. ¡ Our Bylaws provide that shareholders seeking to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring business before an annual meeting of shareholders must provide timely notice of their proposal in writing to the corporate secretary. These provisions may discourage acquisition proposals and may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock or may delay, prevent or deter a merger, acquisition, tender offer or proxy contest, which may negatively affect our stock price. 21 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 