Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a number of risks. Before deciding to invest in us or to maintain or increase your investment, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this report and other reports we have filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business operations. If any of these risks are realized, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. In that event, the market price for our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Ability to Continue as a Going Concern Our independent registered public accounting firm has expressed doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We may need additional liquidity and capital resources to achieve our goals. As discussed in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Going Concern,” we have incurred significant losses from 2006 through 2009, including a net loss of $22,388 for the year ended December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2009, we had cash and cash equivalents of $1,018, total liabilities of $36,069 and an accumulated stockholders’ deficit of $2,544. We have substantial near-term liquidity requirements related to the repayment of a seller note that comes due on September 30, 2010 and our revolving line of credit under our Amended Loan Agreement with Hercules, and to earn out payment obligations from past acquisitions. We do not currently expect to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to fund those obligations. Based on our history of losses and substantial near-term liquidity requirements, our independent registered public accounting firm included an explanatory paragraph with respect to our ability to continue as a going concern in its report on our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2009. The presence of this explanatory paragraph may have an adverse impact on our relationship with third parties with whom we do business, including our customers, vendors and employees and could make it more challenging for us to raise additional financing or refinance our existing indebtedness. In light of our losses and liquidity requirements, we have undertaken a series of actions to reduce costs and have explored potential sources of financing and other strategic initiatives. Even with the restructuring of our debt with Hercules 15 Table of Contents on November 20, 2009 and subsequent additional borrowings from Hercules in February and April 2010, we continue to believe that we need to raise additional capital and to further restructure our debt obligations to meet our liquidity needs and to more effectively pursue our strategic objectives. Future initiatives include additional cost control measures and may include additional financing and further restructuring of our debt. Our continued operations are dependent on our ability to implement these plans successfully. If we are unable to do so, we may be unable to continue as a going concern. Risks Relating to our Indebtedness We will need additional financing to fund our operations and finance our growth; we may be unable to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us. We will be required to raise additional capital through either equity or debt financing to fund our operations, including any operating losses, and to implement our current or future strategies, including strategic acquisitions. Factors that could increase our need to seek additional financing include decreased demand and market acceptance for our products and services, the inability to successfully develop new products and services, competitive pressures resulting in lower pricing, new products and services offered by our competitors, and acquisition opportunities. In addition, if our obligations under existing indebtedness are accelerated or when our existing credit facilities expire, we would likely need to obtain replacement debt financing. The capital and credit markets in the United States continue to experience extreme volatility and disruptions, and the current turmoil affecting the financial markets and the banking system, as well as the possibility that financial institutions may consolidate or go out of business, have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets and a low level of liquidity in many financial markets. These developments have made financing terms materially less attractive and, in some cases, made financing unavailable. As a result, we may be unable to obtain any financing, including both new and replacement financing, that we might require to operate our business. In particular, in this environment, it will be extremely difficult to obtain additional debt financing or to refinance or replace our existing indebtedness. There can be no assurance that additional or replacement debt financing will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we incur additional debt, our interest expense would increase. If we raise capital through the sale of equity securities, the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders would be diluted. Any new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock, including liquidation preferences, dividend rights, board representation, and blocking rights for certain transactions and other matters. If we are unable to obtain additional or replacement financing when we need it, our ability to fund our operations and meet our plans for expansion would be materially adversely affected. We are currently in default under the terms of our Amended Loan Agreement and there can be no assurance that we can cure the default. Our Amended Loan Agreement provides us with a $12,000 line of credit, three term loans with an aggregate principal amount of $11,850, and an equipment loan with availability of up to $3,000. The term loans include a $5,500, 48-month amortizing loan, a $5,000 convertible note due on November 1, 2014, and a $1,350 convertible note due on April 1, 2013. The Amended Loan Agreement contains restrictions and covenants and requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and tests. For example, the Amended Loan Agreement restricts our ability, among other things, to incur additional indebtedness, to acquire other companies or the assets of other companies and to pay dividends without the lender’s consent. If we fail to meet or satisfy any of the restrictions, covenants, financial ratios or financial tests, we would be in default under the Amended Loan Agreement. The loans are secured by all of our assets. We are also required by our lender to maintain a minimum cash balance of $1,000. An event of default under the loan agreement would give the lender the right to declare all amounts outstanding under the credit facility due and payable and enforce its rights to foreclose on the collateral securing the loans. As of February 5, 2010, there was an event of default existing under the Amended Loan Agreement because our advances under the revolving line of credit portion of our credit facility exceeded our available borrowing base. On February 10, 2010, Hercules sent us a letter serving as a notice of event of default and reservation of rights. As a result of this violation and other financial covenant defaults that are continuing, Hercules is charging us default rate interest on all of our outstanding obligations under the Amended Loan Agreement, which rate is equal to the regular interest rate plus 3%. Hercules has the option to require payment of default rate interest in cash, in kind or in shares of common stock. Hercules has not accelerated our obligations under the Amended Loan Agreement, but has expressly not waived any events of default or any of its remedies under the Amended Loan Agreement. We do not have adequate liquidity to repay all outstanding amounts under the credit facility and payment acceleration would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, business, financial condition and results of operations. The covenants in our credit facility may restrict our operations, which could inhibit our ability to execute our growth strategy and have a negative effect on our results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Even without payment acceleration, the restrictions contained in the loan agreement could inhibit our ability to obtain financing and engage in other business activities that are important to our business and growth strategies, which could inhibit our ability to operate our business and increase our revenues and profitability. Our indebtedness could adversely impact our financial condition. On December 31, 2009, as a result of our Amended Loan Agreement, we had approximately $22,640 of total indebtedness outstanding, including short-term debt and approximately $7,559 under our credit facility. We may increase the amount of our indebtedness in the future, which could have an important impact on our stockholders. An increase in our indebtedness could: · cause us to violate certain provisions contained in our Amended Loan Agreement; · make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and limit our flexibility to plan for or react to changes in business and economic conditions; · limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures through increases in our cost of capital; and · harm our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing in the future. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our ability to execute our business and growth strategies would be impaired and our results of operations could be harmed. Risks Related to our Controlled Company /Status Interests of our controlling stockholder may conflict with the interest of our other stockholders. Our majority stockholder, HTI, a wholly owned subsidiary of our senior lender Hercules, owns approximately 40% of our outstanding common stock on a fully diluted basis and shares having approximately 72% of our total voting power. HTI may have interests that differ from our other stockholders’ interests, and it may vote in a way adverse to these interests. Additionally, as more fully discussed in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Recent Developments,” HTI has and will continue to have control over the outcome of certain matters requiring stockholder approval, including the power to, among other things, elect members of our board of directors, amend our certificate of incorporation or by-laws and approve extraordinary transactions, including mergers, acquisitions or dispositions of all or substantially all of our assets. HTI may also prevent or cause a change of control, delay a change of control, or cause a change of control to occur at a time when it is not favored by other stockholders. This could deprive other stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our Company and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. HTI’s ability to employ anti-takeover measures is strengthened due to the security ownership of its parent, Hercules, which owns securities convertible into approximately 37% of our outstanding common stock on a fully diluted basis. See also the risk factor “Provisions in our organizational documents and under Delaware law, as well as governance rights and security ownership of HTI and Hercules, may delay or prevent attempts by our stockholders to change our management and hinder efforts to acquire a controlling interest in us.” In addition, HTI and its affiliates may engage in business with companies that may compete with us or with our subsidiaries. HTI is not obligated to advise us of any investment or business opportunities of which they are aware, and they are not prohibited or restricted from competing with us or with our subsidiaries. Our controlling stockholder has the contractual right to nominate three members of our Board of Directors. Under the terms of a debt conversion agreement between us and HTI, HTI has the contractual right to nominate three of the seven voting members of our Board of Directors. Our Board of Directors appoints the members of our senior management. As a result, HTI has significant influence over the appointment of the members of our senior management and may be able to prevent any changes in senior management that other stockholders, or that other members of our Board of Directors, may deem advisable. Due to the significant influence of HTI on our Board of Directors, HTI has the power to influence all decisions of the Board of Directors, including whether to approve extraordinary transactions, mergers, acquisitions or dispositions of all or substantially all of our assets. Our stockholders do not have the same protections available to other stockholders of NASDAQ-listed companies because we are currently a “controlled company” within the meaning of NASDAQ Listing Rules. Our majority stockholder, HTI, currently controls a majority of our outstanding common stock. As a result, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the rules governing companies with stock quoted on The NASDAQ Capital Market. As a controlled company, we qualify for, and may and intend to rely upon, exemptions from several corporate governance requirements, including requirements that: 17 Table of Contents · a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors; · compensation of officers be determined or recommended to the board of directors by a majority of its independent directors or by a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors; and · director nominees be selected or recommended to the board of directors by a majority of its independent directors or by a nominating committee that is composed entirely of independent directors. Additionally, HTI has the right to have its nominees represented on our Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees. Accordingly, our stockholders will not be afforded the same protections as stockholders of other NASDAQ-listed companies for so long as HTI owns a majority of our outstanding common stock. Risks Relating to our Business and Industry We have incurred losses in the past and our ability to operate profitably in the future is uncertain. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, we generated net revenues of $86,916 and $100,700, respectively and incurred net losses of $22,388 and $13,184, respectively. We have incurred net losses in each of the last four full fiscal years, and we may incur additional losses in the future. Even if we achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If our business and revenues grow more slowly than we anticipate, our operating expenses exceed our expectations, we are unable to sell our products and services at acceptable prices relative to our costs, or we fail to develop and introduce on a timely basis new products and services from which we can derive additional revenues, our financial results will suffer. Achieving profitability may be affected by the continued downturn in economic, business or industry conditions. In weak economic, business or industry conditions, customers or potential customers could reduce or delay their technology investments. Reduced or delayed technology investments could decrease our sales and profitability. In such an environment, our customers may experience financial difficulty, cease operations or fail to budget or reduce budgets for the purchase of our products and professional services. This may lead to longer sales cycles, delays in purchase decisions, payment and collection, and may also result in downward price pressures, causing our sales and profitability to decline. In addition, general economic uncertainty and general declines in capital spending in the information technology sector make it likely that the purchasing requirements of our customers and the markets we serve will decline. There are many other factors that could affect our revenues and profitability, including: · the introduction and market acceptance of new technologies, products and services; · new competitors and new forms of competition; · adverse changes in the credit quality of our customers and suppliers; · changes in the pricing policies of, or the introduction of, new products and services by us or our competitors; · changes in the terms on which we do business with our customers, suppliers or key relationships; · the availability, pricing, quality, and delivery time of products from our suppliers; and · variations in costs for products and services and the mix of products and services sold. In particular, we serve the healthcare and commercial industries, which continue to experience significant challenges, primarily due to macroeconomic conditions that have resulted in a decreased demand for their products and services. Some of our customers are facing constraints on their information technology budgets and are seeking more flexibility in the timing of their purchases from us. As a result of the continuing macroeconomic downturn, some of our customers may face financial challenges going forward. It is unclear when the general economic climate will improve and when our customers may benefit from improved conditions. These factors could adversely affect our business, profitability and financial condition and diminish our ability to achieve our strategic objectives. Achieving profitability and managing our growth are necessary to achieve our strategic objectives. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive. To meet our growth objectives, we believe that we need to continue to add and increasingly emphasize higher-value, proprietary solutions, including mobile managed services, software applications and consulting services. There can be no assurance that we will effectively deploy our initiatives or be successful in obtaining customer acceptance of our current and anticipated higher margin products and services or developing new products and services with higher margins, and if we do not, we would not meet our strategic objectives. 18 Table of Contents In addition, the implementation of our strategic initiatives to reduce costs and achieve profitability may have the unintended effect of placing a significant burden on our management and our operational and financial resources. If we fail to successfully implement these initiatives, or encounter unexpected difficulties in that process, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Also, to manage any future growth of our business, we will need to hire, integrate and retain highly skilled and motivated employees. We will also need to continue to improve our financial and management controls, reporting and operational systems and procedures. If we do not effectively manage our growth and cost structure, we may not be able to meet our strategic objectives. We may engage in acquisitions that could disrupt our business, could be difficult to integrate with our existing operations, cause dilution to our stockholders and harm our business, operating results and financial condition, and we may be unable to find suitable acquisition candidates consistent with our strategic objectives. In the past, as part of our acquisition strategy, we acquired the businesses and certain assets of DDMS Holdings, LLC, AMTSystems, Inc., Healthcare Informatics Associates, Inc., Delta Health Systems, Inc. and Aware Interweave, Inc. during 2007 and 2008. Though we did not complete any business acquisitions in 2009 and acquisitions are not a primary focus of our current strategy, past and potential future acquisitions of other companies or businesses may present us with growth opportunities, but also involve numerous risks, including: · problems combining the acquired operations, technologies or products; · unanticipated costs; · diversion of management’s time and attention from our core business; · adverse effects on existing business relationships with customers and suppliers; · risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; · potential loss of key employees, particularly those of the acquired business; and · continuing obligations to fund earn-out payments or to repay acquisition financing. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage the integration of acquired businesses effectively or be able to retain and motivate key personnel from these businesses. Any difficulties we encounter in the integration process could divert management from day-to-day responsibilities, increase our expenses and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For future acquisitions, we may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates, we may not be able to complete acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all, and we may not be able to finance acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all. Though we have no current plans for acquisitions, if we do complete acquisitions, we may not maintain or may weaken our competitive position or may not achieve our goals, or may be viewed negatively by customers, financial commentators or investors. Acquisitions may disrupt our ongoing operations, divert management from day-to-day responsibilities, increase our expenses and adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. Future acquisitions may reduce our cash available for operations, debt service and other uses and could result in an increase in amortization expense related to identifiable assets acquired, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt. We depend on our existing senior management team and on recruiting and retaining additional senior managers in order to be successful, and the loss of or failure to recruit key executives could materially and adversely affect our business. Our current and future performance depends, in significant part, upon retaining our existing senior management team, whose knowledge, leadership and technical abilities would be difficult to replace and recruiting and retaining qualified senior managers. Our success also depends in part upon the ability of our executives to work effectively together and with the rest of our employees to continue to develop our technologies and services and to manage the operation and potential growth of our business. We also must continue to develop and retain a strong core group of senior executives in order to realize our goal of growing our business and achieving profitability. We may be unsuccessful in our efforts. The unplanned loss of the services of one or more of our executives could have an adverse effect on our business and profitability. We are dependent on our allied customers and key industry relationships. We maintain important relationships with hardware and software technology leaders. We regard these relationships as more than traditional customer/supplier relationships and believe they represent an important lead referral source and sales channel for us. There can be no assurance that we or our key relationships can continue to be successful in maintaining relationships with customers or that we or our allied customers could find adequate replacements if needed. The loss of any of these allied 19 Table of Contents customers or key relationships could result in the temporary or permanent cessation of a group of products or solutions and result in the loss of a portion of our existing and anticipated customer base and related revenue. We depend on third-party suppliers and manufacturers to manufacture our products. If these third parties experience any delay, disruption or quality control problems in their operations, or cease manufacturing our products, we could lose market share and revenues, and our reputation may be harmed. A substantial portion of our products are manufactured, assembled, tested and packaged by third parties. We rely on several suppliers and manufacturers to procure components and various products that we sell and, in some cases, subcontract engineering work. Some of our products are manufactured by a single manufacturer and, if we were to lose the services of this manufacturer, finding a suitable replacement could prove particularly difficult. In most cases, we do not have long-term contracts with these third parties. If our suppliers and manufacturers encounter financial or other business difficulties, if their strategic objectives change, or if they perceive us to no longer be an attractive customer, they may cease to manufacture our products and our business could be harmed. The loss of the services of any of our primary manufacturers or a material change in the terms on which we do business with them could cause a significant disruption in operations and delays in product shipments, which could adversely impact our cash flow. Qualifying a new manufacturer and commencing volume production is expensive and time consuming. Our reliance on third-party suppliers and manufacturers also exposes us to the following risks over which we have limited control: · inability to procure key required components for our finished products to meet our customers’ demands; · unexpected increases in manufacturing and repair costs; · unexpected reductions in payment terms; · interruptions in shipments if one of our manufacturers is unable to complete production; · inability to control the quality of finished products; · inability to control delivery schedules; · inability to obtain favorable pricing; · unpredictability of manufacturing yields; and · potential lack of adequate capacity to manufacture all or a part of the products we require. If we are unable to provide our third-party suppliers and manufacturers with an accurate and timely forecast of our component and material requirements, we may experience delays in the manufacturing of our products and the costs of our products may increase. We provide our third-party suppliers and manufacturers with forecasts of our demand that they use to determine their material and component requirements. Lead times for ordering materials and components vary significantly and depend on various factors, such as the specific supplier, contract terms and demand and supply for a component at a given time. Some of our components require substantial lead times. If our forecasts are less than our actual requirements, or are not delivered in a timely manner, our manufacturers may not be able to manufacture enough products to meet our needs. If our forecasts are too high, our suppliers and manufacturers may be unable to use all of the components they have purchased on our behalf. Therefore, the cost per unit of producing products for us may be higher and those costs may be passed through to us, which could reduce our margins or raise our product prices relative to our competitors. Moreover, if they are unable to use certain components, we may be required to reimburse them for any losses they incur. Our industry is highly competitive, and competitive pressures from existing and new companies may have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, growth rates, market share, and profitability. Our industry is highly competitive and influenced by many factors, including the following: · advances in technology; · introduction of new products and services; · evolving industry standards; · product improvements; · rapidly changing customer needs; · intellectual property invention and protection; 20 Table of Contents · marketing and distribution capabilities; · competition from highly capitalized companies; · competition from companies with stronger brand recognition and greater financial resources; · entrance of new competitors; · customer budget pressure on information technology spending; and · price competition. If we do not keep pace with product and technology advances, our products and services could be rendered obsolete, which would have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, revenues and prospects for growth. There is also likely to be continued pricing pressure resulting from the economic downturn or as competitors attempt to maintain or increase market share. The products manufactured and marketed by us and our competitors are becoming more complex. As the technological and functional capabilities of our products increase, these products may begin to compete with products being offered by companies that have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and manufacturing resources than we do. We may not be able to compete successfully against these competitors, and competitive pressures may result in a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, growth rates, market share and profitability. We also compete with certain of our key relationships from time to time. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with them, we may be forced to compete directly with them for customers that we previously had served through our relationships. We may also lose our key relationships as customers. Our key relationships generally have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and manufacturing resources than we do and may be able to directly offer their customers solutions similar to those we offer. If we fail to continue to introduce new products and services that achieve sufficient market acceptance on a timely basis, we will not be able to compete effectively and we will be unable to increase or maintain revenues and profitability. Our future success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products, services and technology enhancements that achieve sufficient market acceptance. If we are unable to develop and introduce new products and services that respond to emerging technological trends and customers’ critical needs, our profitability and market share will suffer. The process of developing new technology and related services is complex and uncertain, and if we fail to accurately predict customers’ changing needs or emerging technological trends, our business could be harmed. We must commit resources to developing new products before knowing whether our investments will result in products the market will accept. We may also have difficulty obtaining the capital resources necessary to develop and introduce new products. We may encounter delays in manufacturing, producing and deploying new or improved products or offering new or improved services. Our new products and services may not be commercially successful. If we expend a significant amount of resources and our efforts do not lead to the successful introduction of new or improved products or services, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, profitability, financial condition and market share. Demand for existing products may decrease following the announcement of new or improved products. Further, since products under development are often announced before introduction, these announcements may cause customers to delay purchases of our products, even if newly introduced, until new or improved versions of those products are available. If customer orders decrease or are delayed during a product transition, we may experience a decline in revenue. Our profitability might decrease if customers, who may otherwise choose to purchase existing products, instead choose to purchase lower priced models of new products. Delays or deficiencies in the development, manufacturing, and delivery of, or demand for, our new or improved products would adversely affect our business and profitability. If we are unsuccessful in expanding our professional services, we may fail to achieve our objectives. We have been expanding our professional services and enhancing our technical knowledge to broaden our service offerings and to transition our business to focus on higher margin software applications, consulting and other professional services and away from the sale of hardware and related warranties. To do so, we have been increasing our in-house talent pool and introducing new products for support and professional services, including through acquisitions of businesses that we believe complement our existing services. We look to leverage new employees that are skilled in our business to reduce our dependence on outside assistance. Our initiatives will include reducing dependence on outside service providers, determining specific methodologies and processes for meeting customer needs, conducting in-house training sessions, and leveraging business partnerships to increase professional services opportunities. These initiatives have required, and will continue to require, significant investment by us, including expenses relating to the recruiting and training of these new employees. There is no assurance that we will have adequate resources to continue to implement these initiatives or that they will improve the sales and profitability of our professional services. 21 Table of Contents Any failure in our ability to offer high-quality support and other services could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. Once our products are integrated within our customers’ hardware and software systems, our customers may depend on our support organization to manage those systems and resolve any issues that may arise. A high level of support is critical for the successful marketing and sale of our solutions. If we do not effectively assist our customers in deploying our products, succeed in helping our customers quickly resolve post-deployment issues, and provide effective ongoing support, our ability to sell our solutions to existing customers could be adversely affected, and our reputation with potential customers could be harmed. In addition, as we expand our operations internationally, our support organization will face additional challenges, including those associated with delivering support, training and documentation in languages other than English. Our failure to maintain high-quality support and services, or to adequately assist our key relationships in providing high-quality support and services, could result in customers choosing to use our competitors’ products and services instead of ours. We rely on information technology and could be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain and upgrade our technology to remain competitive. We have invested in sophisticated technologies and information systems to allow us to provide customized solutions to our customers’ needs. We anticipate that it will be necessary to select, invest in and upgrade our technology and systems to maintain our competitiveness. In the event of substantial improvements in technologies and equipment, we may be required to invest in new systems and equipment and to hire and retain qualified persons to implement and maintain them. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to maintain and upgrade the technology and systems necessary for our business to remain competitive, and any disruption to or infiltration of our information technology systems could significantly harm our business and profitability. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights or if third parties assert we are in violation of their intellectual property rights, we could be prevented from selling our products, the time and attention of management could be diverted from operating our business and our ability to attract new customers and retain current customers could be hampered, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We file patent applications to protect technology, innovations and improvements that we consider important to the development of our business. Throughout our history, we have invested in and acquired intellectual property assets. We continue to partner and invest to develop, capture and deliver unique, high-quality, differentiated and cost-effective mobile workforce technology solutions for our customers. We have 23 issued patents in the U.S. and 13 in other countries related to wearable computers and surrounding RFID technology that manages proper medication delivery and administration. We have 5 patent applications pending with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and 6 in other countries, likewise related to medication delivery and administration and aspects of wearable computing devices. We have also developed other proprietary solutions, including form-factor PC technologies designed specifically for low power consumption, handheld and kiosk point of sale devices and several customized software applications. We seek to protect our proprietary information and technology through licensing agreements, third-party nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions, as well as through patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws in the U.S. and similar laws in other countries. There can be no assurance that these protections will be available in all cases or will be adequate to prevent our competitors from copying, reverse engineering or otherwise obtaining and using our technology, proprietary rights or products. Our competitors may independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology or design around our proprietary rights. In each case, our ability to compete and to receive licensing revenues could be significantly impaired. To prevent substantial unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights, it may be necessary to prosecute actions for infringement and/or misappropriation of our proprietary rights against third parties. Any such action could result in significant costs and diversion of our resources and management’s attention, and we may be unsuccessful in any such action. In addition, third parties may seek to challenge, invalidate or circumvent our patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets, or applications for any of the foregoing. Furthermore, the laws of certain countries in which our products are or may be licensed do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. Third parties may assert claims of infringement of intellectual property rights against us or against our partners for which we may be liable under certain indemnification arrangements. The failure to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms or the entry of an injunction that impairs our ability to market certain products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, profitability or financial condition. Any litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete. We may also be subject to claims from customers for indemnification. Any resulting litigation, regardless of its resolution, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. If it were determined that our products infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others, we would need to obtain licenses from these parties or reengineer our products in 22 Table of Contents order to avoid infringement. We might not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms or at all, or to reengineer our products successfully. Moreover, if we are sued for infringement and lose the suit, we could be required to pay substantial damages or be enjoined from licensing or using the infringing products or technology, or both. Any of these events could cause us to incur significant costs and prevent us from selling our products and could have material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete. We rely upon third parties for technology that is critical to our products, and if we are unable to continue to use this technology and future technology our ability to offer competitive products could be harmed and our costs of production could increase. We obtain non-exclusive software license rights to technologies from third parties that are incorporated into and necessary for the operation and functionality of certain of our products. Because the intellectual property for which we have obtained licenses is available from third parties, barriers to entry for our competitors may be lower than if we owned exclusive rights to these technologies. On the other hand, if a competitor enters into an exclusive arrangement with any of our third-party technology providers, our ability to develop and sell products containing that technology could be severely limited. Our success depends in part on our continued ability to have access to these technologies on commercially reasonable terms. If we do not continue to hold or obtain licenses to use necessary technologies, we may be forced to acquire or develop alternative technology that may be of lower quality or performance standards. This could limit and delay our ability to offer competitive products and increase our costs of production. As a result, our profitability and market share could be harmed. Our products are complex and may contain undetected and unexpected defects, errors or failures. Substantial product defects could result in product recalls, repairs or an increased amount of product returns, loss of market acceptance and damage to our reputation, which in turn could increase our costs, cause us to lose sales and have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Product defects might also result in claims against us by our customers or others. In addition, the occurrence of any defects or errors in these products could result in cancellation of orders, difficulty in collecting accounts receivable, increased service and warranty costs in excess of our estimates, diversion of resources, and increased insurance costs and other losses to our business or to end-users. Incompatibilities, defects or bugs in our products may not be detected until our customers begin to install the products or later. We may need to modify the design of our new or improved products if they have incompatibilities, defects or bugs, which could result in significant expenditures, delays in product purchases or canceled orders. Because we often sell our products on a purchase order basis, we are subject to uncertainties and variability in demand from our customers. We sell our mobile workstations and other devices on a purchase order basis rather than pursuant to long-term contracts or contracts with minimum purchase requirements. Consequently, the level and timing of our sales are subject to variations in demand from our customers. Orders can be cancelled, reduced or delayed due to customer budget cycles, the introduction or anticipated introduction of new products or technologies or general economic conditions. Generally, sales are sequentially down in the first quarter from the fourth quarter, higher in the second quarter, flat or slightly higher or lower in the third quarter, and strongest in the fourth quarter. If we are unable to anticipate and respond to the demands of our customers, our business, financial position and operating results may be adversely affected. Our products are subject to certain government regulations and noncompliance with, or a change in, those regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our products are subject to regulation by federal, state and local agencies in the U.S. and agencies in certain foreign countries where our products are manufactured or sold. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain compliance with these regulations, particularly if they were to change. Regulatory changes may require us to make modifications to certain of our products so that we can continue to manufacture and market our products, which could result in unanticipated costs and delays. Our failure to comply with these regulations, or delays resulting from modifications could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Armed hostilities, terrorism, natural disasters, or public health issues could harm our business. Armed hostilities, terrorism, natural disasters, or public health issues, whether in the U.S. or abroad, could cause damage or disruption to us, our suppliers or customers, or could create political or economic instability, any of which could harm our business. Any such events could, among other things, cause further instability in financial markets and could directly, or indirectly through reduced demand, negatively affect our facilities and operations or those of our customers or suppliers. If our customers experience any disruptions in the solutions that we provide to them as a result of any such events, we may not be successful in alleviating the disruptions, particularly if many customers are affected by any of these events. 23 Table of Contents Risks Relating to our Common Stock Our stock may be subject to delisting from The NASDAQ Capital Market if the closing bid price for our common stock is not maintained at $1.00 per share or higher. Our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market, which imposes, among other requirements, a minimum bid requirement. The price of our common stock must trade at or above $1.00 to comply with the minimum bid requirement for continued listing. On September 16, 2009, we received a deficiency letter from the NASDAQ Stock Market stating that we no longer met the minimum $1.00 per share requirement. We had a grace period of 180 calendar days, or until March 15, 2010, to regain compliance, which would occur if the bid price of our stock closed at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days. On January 5, 2010, we amended our certificate of incorporation to effect a one-for-twenty-five reverse stock split of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock in an attempt to increase the trading price of our common stock and to regain compliance with the minimum bid price rule and avoid delisting of our stock. The reverse stock split was reflected on The NASDAQ Capital Market at the opening of trading on January 6, 2010. Since that date, the closing price of our common stock has ranged from a low of $1.67 to a high of $8.55. As such, on January 21, 2010, we received a notice from NASDAQ that we have regained compliance with the minimum bid price requirement and the matter is now closed. There is no guarantee that the market price of our common stock will continue to trade above $1.00 or that we will continue to comply with the minimum bid requirement. If we fail to maintain compliance with the continued listing standards, a delisting could adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock and the market price of our common stock could decrease and could also adversely affect our ability to obtain financing for the continuation of our operations and/or result in the loss of confidence by investors, customers, suppliers and employees. Our stock may be delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market if we do not maintain certain levels of stockholders’ equity, market value of listed securities, or net income from continuing operations. Our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market, which imposes, among other requirements, a requirement that a listed company maintain either a minimum of $2,500 in stockholders’ equity, a minimum of $35,000 of market value of listed securities, or a net income from continuing operations of at least $500 in the most recently completed fiscal year or in two of the three most recently completed fiscal years. On August 19, 2009, we received a letter from NASDAQ, notifying us that we were not in compliance with these requirements. On October 30, 2009, we received notice that NASDAQ granted our request for an extension to regain compliance with these requirements. We had until November 20, 2009 to regain such compliance. On November 25, 2009, we received notice from NASDAQ that we have regained compliance with the $2,500 stockholders’ equity requirement for continued listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market. NASDAQ, however, will continue to monitor our ongoing compliance with the stockholders’ equity requirement and, because our stockholders’ deficiency of $2,544 at December 31, 2009 does not evidence compliance with that requirement, we may be subject to delisting. Any such delisting could adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock and the market price of our common stock could decrease and could also adversely affect our ability to obtain financing for the continuation of our operations and/or result in the loss of confidence by investors, customers, suppliers and employees. The market price of our common stock may continue to be highly volatile and continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors that are beyond our control, including: · announcements of new products or services by our competitors; · quarterly variations in our revenues and operating expenses; · our announcements of technological innovations or new products or professional services; · sales of common stock by our directors and executive officers or HTI or Hercules; and · continuing uncertainty and adverse developments in the overall stock market. 24 Table of Contents If a substantial number of our shares of common stock become available for sale and are sold in a short period of time, the market price of our shares of common stock could decline. We have filed a registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC and it is anticipated that prior to the effective date of this registration statement, we will have approximately 1,030,354 million shares of common stock that were available to be publicly traded. The registration statement on Form S-3 that we have filed covers the resale by the selling stockholder of up to 3,364,738 shares of our common stock. Although our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market, it does not generally have a high average trading volume. For example, since we became listed on NASDAQ in September 2007, our average daily trading volume has been approximately 16,682. Our low trading volume may cause the price of our common stock to be volatile. The last reported sale price of our common stock on NASDAQ on April 13, 2010 was $5.34. If HTI sells substantial amounts of our shares of common stock, the market price of our shares of common stock could decrease significantly. The perception in the public market that HTI might sell our shares of common stock could also depress our market price. The number of shares of common stock that will be available to be publicly traded after the effective date of the registration statement on Form S-3 will increase by approximately 327%. Furthermore, we are obligated to file a registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC prior to May 31, 2010. There may be a limited public market for our securities. Although we are listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market, there can be no assurance that the trading of our common stock will be sustained. If our common stock fails to qualify for continued listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market or for listing on another registered stock exchange, trading, if any, in our common stock would be conducted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board or in what are commonly referred to as “pink sheets.” As a result, our stockholders may find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our common stock, and our common stock would become substantially less attractive for margin loans, for investment by financial institutions, as consideration in future capital raising transactions or other purposes. An active public market for shares of our common stock may not develop, or if one should develop, it may not be sustained. Therefore, our stockholders may not be able to find purchasers for their shares of our common stock. We do not expect to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to support the development and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any payment of future dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors after taking into account various factors, including, but not limited to, our financial condition, operating results, cash needs, growth plans and the terms of any credit agreements that we may be a party to at the time. Our Amended Loan Agreement with Hercules currently restricts our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. Accordingly, our stockholders must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to make a positive return on their investment. Due to a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting were determined not to be effective for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009. Our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not be effective in future periods as a result of existing or newly identified material weaknesses in internal controls. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and effectively prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results could be harmed. Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to furnish a report by management on internal control over financial reporting, including management’s assessment of the effectiveness of such control. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business and operating results could be adversely impacted, we could fail to meet our reporting obligations, and our business and stock price could be adversely affected. Our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act) and have concluded that, subject to the inherent limitations identified in Item 9A(T) of Part II of this Form 10-K, as of April 15, 2010, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective due to our independent public accountants’ identification of the existence of a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as described below. 25 A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. A deficiency in internal control over financial reporting exists when the design or operation of a control does not allow management or employees, in the normal course of performing their assigned functions, to prevent or detect financial statement misstatements on a timely basis. A deficiency in design exists when a control necessary to meet the control objective is missing, or when an existing control is not properly designed so that even in the control operates as designed, the control objective would not be met. A deficient in operation exists when a properly designed control does not operate as designed or when the person performing the control does not possess the necessary authority or competence to perform the control effectively. In connection with the audit on our consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2009, our independent public accountants, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, identified deficiencies in internal control related to our accounting for the Hercules Restructuring. Specifically, we failed to properly apply the Debt Topic of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification and failed to timely make certain material adjustments required in connection with the Hercules Restructuring, including recording a $5,800 loss on debt extinguishment and a $4,400 increase in additional paid-in capital. For further discussion of our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls, see Item 9A(T). “—Controls and Procedures” in Part II of this Form 10-K. We intend to take appropriate and reasonable steps to make the necessary improvements to remediate these deficiencies. We cannot be certain that our remediation efforts will ensure that our management designs, implements and maintains adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or will be sufficient to address and eliminate the material weakness identified. Our inability to remedy the identified material weakness or any additional deficiencies or material weaknesses that may be identified in the future could, among other things, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, as well as impair our ability to meet our quarterly, annual and other reporting requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 in a timely manner, and require us to incur additional costs or to divert management resources. Provisions in our organizational documents and under Delaware law, as well as governance rights and security ownership of HTI and Hercules, may delay or prevent attempts by our stockholders to change our management and hinder efforts to acquire a controlling interest in us. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may strengthen our Board of Directors’ position in the event of a hostile takeover attempt. These provisions have the effect of providing stockholders may only remove a director by a majority vote of all shares outstanding and entitled to vote at a special meeting called for that purpose, that stockholders may only call a special meeting by the request, in writing, of stockholders owning individually or together 10% 26 Table of Contents or more of our entire capital stock outstanding and entitled to vote, and that we may issue preferred stock with such rights, preferences, privileges and limitations as our Board of Directors may establish. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person which together with its affiliates owns or within the last three years has owned 15% of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Accordingly, Section 203 may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. Furthermore, HTI’s rights to representation on our Board of Directors, the controlling ownership interest currently held by HTI and the ability of HTI and its parent corporation, Hercules, to further increase their holdings of our common stock could be a significant deterrent to any other person interested in acquiring a controlling interest in us. See the risk factor titled “Our controlling stockholder has the contractual right to nominate three members of our Board of Directors.” Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 