ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following is a summary of the material risks related to an investment in the Company's securities. A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF THE BANK'S BUSINESS IS CONCENTRATED IN REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT AND CONSTRUCTION LENDING. At December 31, 2006, approximately 23.1% of our loans are commercial and residential real estate development and construction loans, which are secured by the real estate under development. Construction lending involves extensive risks. In addition to the risk that the market values of the real estate securing these loans may deteriorate, these loans are also subject to the development risks that the projects will not be completed in a timely manner or according to original specifications. Real estate development and construction projects that are not completed in a timely manner or according to original specifications are generally less marketable than projects that are fully developed, and the loans underlying such projects may be subject to greater losses in the event that the real estate collateral becomes the source of repayment. Construction projects are commonly underwritten based upon projections, such as the sales of homes or future leasing of commercial spaces, and substantial deviations from such projections can occur. Construction lending is also labor intensive for the Bank, requiring Bank employees to expend substantial time and resources in monitoring and servicing each construction loan to completion. In addition, a construction loan that is in default can create problems for the Bank, such as designating replacement builders for a project, considering alternate users for the project and site and handling any structural or environmental issues that might arise. Such problems and the risks inherent in construction lending may have a material adverse effect on the Company's earnings and overall financial condition. MOST OF THE BANK'S LOANS ARE SECURED, IN WHOLE OR IN PART, WITH REAL ESTATE COLLATERAL. In addition to the financial strength and cash flow characteristics of the borrower in each case, the Bank often secures its loans with real estate collateral. At December 31, 2006, approximately 95% of the Bank's loans had real estate as a primary, secondary or tertiary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower, but such collateral may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan during a period of reduced real estate values to satisfy the debt, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. 17 SOME OF THE BANK'S ASSETS ARE CLASSIFIED AS NON-PERFORMING ASSETS THAT MAY LOSE FURTHER VALUE. The Bank has non-performing assets, which at this time only include non-accruing loans. At December 31, 2006, the Bank's non-performing loans were 0.34% of outstanding net loans. There is a possibility that the Bank's earnings could be reduced in the event that the eventual values of these non-performing assets are or become less than the values that we have assigned to them. THE BANK MAY EXPERIENCE LOAN LOSSES IN EXCESS OF ITS ALLOWANCE. The risk of credit losses on loans varies with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the value and marketability of the collateral for the loan. The Bank's management maintains an allowance for loan losses based upon, among other things, historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions and regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality. Based upon such factors, management makes various assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectability of the loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses based upon a percentage of the outstanding balances and for specific loans when their ultimate collectability is considered questionable. If the Bank's management's assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect and the allowance for loan losses is inadequate to absorb future losses, or if the bank regulatory authorities require the Bank to increase the allowance for loan losses as a part of their examination process, the Bank's earnings and capital could be significantly and adversely affected. As of December 31, 2006, the allowance for loan losses was approximately $4.5 million, which represented 1.45% of outstanding net loans. At such date, we had non-accruing loans totaling $789,000. The Bank actively manages its non-accruing loans in an effort to minimize credit losses. Although the Bank's management believes that its allowance for loan losses is adequate, there can be no assurance that the allowance will prove sufficient to cover future loan losses. Further, although the Bank's management uses the best information available to make determinations with respect to the allowance for loan losses, future adjustments may be necessary if economic conditions differ substantially from the assumptions used or adverse developments arise with respect to the Bank's non-performing or performing loans. Material additions to the Bank's allowance for loan losses would result in a decrease in the Bank's net income and capital, and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. THE BANK OPERATES IN A COMPETITIVE MARKET. The Bank operates in a competitive environment, competing for deposits and loans with commercial banks, savings associations and other financial entities. Competition for deposits comes primarily from other commercial banks, savings associations, credit unions, money market and mutual funds and other investment alternatives. Competition for loans comes primarily from other commercial banks, savings associations, mortgage banking firms, credit unions and other financial intermediaries. Many of the financial intermediaries operating in our market area offer certain services, such as trust investment and international banking services, which the Bank does not offer. In addition, banks with a larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits and are thereby able to serve the needs of larger customers. Finally, the Bank's continued growth and profitability will depend upon its ability to attract and retain skilled managerial, marketing and technical personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in the banking industry is intense, and there can be no assurance that the Bank will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. 18 THE BANK IS DEPENDENT ON CERTAIN KEY PERSONNEL. The success of the Bank depends, to a great extent, upon the services of Vito S. Pantilione, the Bank's President and Chief Executive Officer, Robert A. Kuehl, the Bank's Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, David O. Middlebrook, the Bank's Senior Vice President and Senior Loan Officer, and Elizabeth A. Milavsky, the Bank's Senior Vice President of Retail Operations, Human Resources and Compliance. The Bank has been able to retain the services of Mr. Pantilione since its inception and of Mr. Middlebrook since he joined the Bank in 1999. The Bank has needed, from time to time, to recruit personnel to fill vacant positions for experienced lending and credit administration officers. There can be no assurance that the Bank will continue to be successful in recruiting and retaining the necessary personnel for the Bank's lending, operations, accounting and administrative functions. The Bank's inability to hire or retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations. CHANGES IN INTEREST RATES AFFECT THE COMPANY'S PROFITABILITY AND ASSETS. The Company derives its income mainly from the difference, or "spread," between the interest earned by the Bank on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and the interest paid by the Bank on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. If more interest-earning assets than interest-bearing liabilities re-price or mature during a time when interest rates are declining, then the Company's net interest income may be reduced. If more interest-bearing liabilities than interest-earning assets re-price or mature during a time when interest rates are rising, then the Company's net interest income may be reduced. At December 31, 2006, the Bank's total interest-earning assets maturing or re-pricing within one year exceeded interest-bearing liabilities maturing or re-pricing during the same time period by $3.9 million. As a result, the cost on its interest-bearing liabilities should adjust to changes in interest rates at a faster rate than the yield of its interest-earning assets, and its net interest income may be reduced when interest rates increase significantly for this period of time. THE BANK'S MANAGEMENT CONTROLS A SIGNIFICANT PERCENTAGE OF OUR COMMON STOCK. At March 22, 2007, the Company's and the Bank's directors and executive officers beneficially owned 1,419,739 shares or exercisable warrants and options, or 49.4%, of our common stock. Because of the large percentage of stock held by the Company's and the Bank's directors and executive officers, these persons could influence the outcome of any matter submitted to a vote of our shareholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 