D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our limited operating history makes evaluating our business and prospects difficult. We commenced operations in July 2002 and completed our first mobile handset design project in September 2003. We started selling completed handsets only in 2006 and such product sales constituted over 90% of our total net revenues in 2008. As a result, we have a limited operating history, which may not provide a meaningful basis for evaluating our business, financial performance and prospects. We may not have sufficient experience to address the risks frequently encountered by early stage companies, including our potential inability to: • achieve and maintain our profitability and margins; • acquire and retain customers; • attract, train and retain qualified personnel; • maintain adequate control over our costs and expenses; • keep up with evolving industry standards and market developments; or • respond to competitive and changing market conditions. If we are unsuccessful in addressing any of these risks, our business may be materially and adversely affected. If we fail to timely and effectively meet market demand after our human resource restructuring, our business may be materially and adversely affected. The recent global crisis in the financial services and credit markets has resulted in significant volatility and dislocation in the global capital markets. It is uncertain how long the global crisis in the financial services and credit markets will continue and how much adverse impact it will have on the global economy in general or the Chinese economy in particular. To cope with the global economic downturn, we undertook a human resource restructuring throughout 2008. Under this plan, we streamlined business processes to improve efficiency. As a result, the number of our employees was reduced from 1,363 as of December 31, 2007 to 522 as of December 31, 2008. If we cannot timely and effectively meet market demand with our restructured work force, our business may be materially and adversely affected. If our customers fail to achieve success in their business, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. If any of our customers is unsuccessful in its mobile handset sales, whether due to lack of market acceptance of its products, shortage of component supplies, slowdown of replacement sales of mobile handsets or otherwise, the customer may downsize or discontinue its mobile handset business, which in turn could adversely affect our business in mobile handset design services and product sales. Accordingly, our success depends on our customers’ success in their business. Our largest customer in 2006, 2007 and 2008 contributed approximately 15.6%, 11.0% and 12.3%, respectively, of our total revenues, and our largest three customers in 2006, 2007 and 2008 contributed approximately 28.5%, 25.0% and 28.8%, respectively, of our total revenues. If any of these customers experiences financial difficulty or is otherwise unable to achieve success in its own business, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We are not certain whether our customers will be able to achieve success in their business and how long they will remain competitive in their business even if initially successful. 4 Table of Contents We are exposed to the inventory risk and the credit risk of our customers. As our product sales increasingly make up the majority of our revenues, we are correspondingly exposed to inventory risks. Although we arrange with our EMS providers for product manufacturing according to the sales order, we nevertheless need to order some raw material and components in advance of assigning them to the EMS providers and to build inventory in advance of customer’s orders to balance the longer lead time for components and shorter delivery time requested by our customers. Because demand for our products is affected by a number of factors, including competition and general economic conditions, there is risk that we may forecast demand incorrectly and order from third parties excess or insufficient inventories of particular products. In addition, credit risk of our customers may arise from events or circumstances beyond the control of us or our customers. For instance, an economic downturn may cause our customers to default under the product sales contracts entered into with us. Therefore, we are exposed to the risks that our customers may refuse to buy from us the original number of mobile handsets in accordance with the purchase orders or may not be able to pay us timely or at all in accordance with the sales contracts. Even if we may sometimes be able to retain as penalties the partial prepayments or deposits received from such defaulting customers, this might not be sufficient to offset the resulting loss of profits and the increased cost of unsold inventory. If our customers default in paying us, we would have to make provisions for doubtful debts or incur bad debt write-offs, which would materially and adversely affect our profitability. We are subject to product liability or product recall exposure and have limited insurance coverage. Our sales agreements with customers require us to undertake any product recalls for products that we, a regulatory body or our customers determine fail to meet pre-determined specifications, standards, laws, regulations or contain substantial defects or substantial product hazards which could cause damage. We may be required to bear all costs related to the recall that arise out of our breach of warranty as set forth in a purchase agreement. As we continue to sell completed feature phones and smart phones to our customers in 2009, we are exposed to potential product liability claims in the event that the use of our products causes or is alleged to have caused personal injuries or other adverse effects. A successful product liability claim against us could require us to pay substantial damages. Product liability claims against us, whether or not successful, are costly and time-consuming to defend. Also, in the event that our products prove to be defective, we may be required to recall or redesign such products, which could result in substantial costs, diversion of management attention and resources and damage to our reputation. However, as the insurance industry in China is still in an early stage of development, product liability insurance available in China offers limited coverage compared to coverage offered in many other countries. We have acquired product liability insurance, but the coverage provided by this insurance is limited and future liability claims may exceed the coverage limits of our insurance. We cannot assure you that product liability insurance will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. A product liability claim, with or without merit, could result in significant adverse publicity against us, and could have a material adverse effect on the marketability of our products and our reputation, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we do not have any business interruption insurance coverage for our operations. Any business disruption or natural disaster could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. We may cease to be profitable and experience net losses in the future. Although we had recorded net income in 2008, a net loss was recorded in 2006 and 2007. We cannot assure you that our return to profitability will continue in the future. We continue to cut down our operating expenses as a proportion to our sales to control cost. However, any decrease or delay in generating additional revenues could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and result in substantial operating losses as the operating expenses might not decline to the same extent that revenues decrease. In addition, competition from other independent mobile handset design services providers and original design manufacturers, or ODMs, may exert downward pressure on our prices to maintain our competitive position. If we do not achieve profitability or otherwise meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the market price of our ADSs will likely decline. 5 Table of Contents We are dependent on our suppliers and EMS providers for timely manufacturing and delivery of the products sold to our customers. We rely on our suppliers for procuring the raw materials and components required for the manufacturing of the finished products that we sell to our customers. As we do not have our own manufacturing facilities, we rely on EMS providers for assembling and manufacturing the mobile handsets. If these suppliers or EMS providers fail to deliver their goods or services to us in a timely manner, our ability to deliver the finished goods to our customers on a timely basis will be accordingly affected. If we fail to maintain our relationships with existing suppliers or EMS providers or fail to find new suppliers or EMS providers for cooperation on competitive terms, our business operations and financial results may be materially and adversely impacted. The mobile handset market in China is highly competitive, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against our competitors. The mobile handset market in China is intensely competitive and highly fragmented. We face current and potential competition from established suppliers of wireless communications solutions to mobile device manufacturers. These competitors include original design manufacturers, or ODMs, such as Arima Communications, BenQ and Compal Communications. We also face competitors who outsource the manufacturing to EMS providers as they, like us, do not own the manufacturing facility. For this group of competitors, the outsourcing of the manufacturing process allows lower operating costs and reduced capital investments and other fixed costs. This in turn results in the low barriers of entry, and accordingly an increasing number of new players may enter this market in the near future. Many of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, sales and other resources than we do. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors. We are subject to risks from customers’ claims for refund and liquidated damages. Our agreements with many customers contain refund and liquidated damages provisions, which entitle the customers to demand a refund and liquidated damages if we cannot complete a mobile handset design by the deadline, or if the requisite certifications cannot be obtained, or if we cannot timely deliver our smart phone or feature phone products to our customers. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully perform every customer contract, or that costs associated with refunds and liquidated damages will not be material. Under the recently realigned business of providing turn-key solutions to our smart phone customers, we will outsource the assembly of final handset products to third-party companies. Any failure of such assembly companies in timely delivering to us the finished products with the stipulated quality will cause us to be liable to our customers. We may not be able to prevent others from unauthorized use of our intellectual property, which could harm our business and competitive position. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, trade secret laws and copyrights, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods to protect our intellectual property rights. Implementation of PRC intellectual property-related laws has historically been lacking, primarily because of ambiguities in the PRC laws and difficulties in enforcement. Accordingly, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology is difficult and expensive. The steps we have taken may be inadequate to prevent the misappropriation of our proprietary technology. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technologies could enable third parties to benefit from our technologies without paying us for doing so, which could harm our business and competitive position. Although we are not currently involved in any litigation, we may need to resort to court action to enforce our intellectual property rights. Litigation relating to our intellectual property might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. See “— Risks Related to Doing Business in China — Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us.” 6 Table of Contents We may face intellectual property infringement and other claims that could be time-consuming and costly to defend and result in our loss of significant rights. Other parties may assert intellectual property infringement and other claims against us. Litigation is expensive and time-consuming and could divert management’s attention from our business. If there is a successful claim of infringement, we may be required to pay substantial damages to the party claiming infringement, develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or license agreements that may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Our failure to develop non-infringing technologies or license the proprietary rights on a timely basis would harm our business. Parties asserting infringement claims may be able to obtain an injunction, which could prevent us from providing our services or using technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property. While currently we do not have any on-going infringement claims against us, we had in the past been, and may in the future be, subject to claims by other parties alleging infringements of their intellectual property rights by our products. To resolve such claims, we may be required to pay licensing fees to third parties, which could adversely affect our financial condition. Any intellectual property litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Our business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our senior executives, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success depends heavily upon the continued services of our senior executives, especially our Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Defu Dong. We rely on their experience in mobile handset design and manufacturing, business operations and selling and marketing and on their relationships with our customers. We do not maintain key-man life insurance for any of our key executives. If one or more of our key executives are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them easily or at all. Therefore, our business may be severely disrupted, and we may incur additional expenses to recruit and retain new officers. Several executives of our company, including our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Defu Dong, were involved in litigation, arbitration or administrative proceedings in the past. Although we are not aware of any pending claims against us or our executives, any future litigation or administrative proceedings involving any of our key executives may result in diversion of management attention away from our business, or damage to our reputation. In addition, if any of our executives joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose our customers. If any disputes arise between our executive officers and us, we cannot assure you the extent to which our rights could be enforced in China, where these executive officers reside and hold most of their assets, in light of the uncertainties with PRC legal system. See “— Risks Related to Doing Business in China — Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us.” The global financial and economic crisis, particularly the slowdown in China’s economy, may adversely affect on our business, results of operations and financial conditions. The global financial markets have experienced significant disruptions recently, and most of the world’s major economies have entered into recession. As a result, China’s economy has slowed down significantly since the second half of 2008 and this trend may continue into the rest of 2009 and beyond. Since we derive most of our revenues from our customers in China, the recent macroeconomic developments in China have negatively affected our operating results in the fourth quarter of 2008. Any persistent slowdown in China’s economy may have additional negative impacts on our business, operating results and financial conditions in a number of ways. For example, due to decreased demand from the Chinese consumers, our current customers may correspondingly reduce the requirement for our services and products. In addition, to the extent we offer credit to any customer and such customer experiences financial difficulties due to the economic slowdown, we could have difficulty collecting payment from such customer. Furthermore, the current financial turmoil affecting the financial markets and banking system may significantly restrict our ability to obtain financing in the capital markets or from financial institutions. Future acquisitions may have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. If we are presented with appropriate opportunities, we may acquire complementary technologies or companies. Future acquisitions would expose us to potential risks, including risks associated with the assimilation of new technologies and personnel, unforeseen or hidden liabilities, the diversion of management attention and resources from our existing business and the inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset the costs and expenses of acquisitions. Any difficulties encountered in the acquisition and integration process may have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. 7 Table of Contents We may incur losses due to business interruptions resulting from the occurrence of adverse public health developments such as outbreak of epidemic, acts of terrorism, fires and natural catastrophes such as earthquakes. In April 2009, influenza A (H1N1), a new strain of flu virus commonly referred to as “swine flu,” was first discovered in North America and quickly spread to other parts of the world, including China. In June, World Health Organization formally declared a swine flu pandemic. Should any adverse public health developments such as outbreak of avian flu, SARS, influenza A (H1N1) or other health epidemic, any acts of terrorism or natural catastrophes such as earthquakes, floods, typhoons occur in Beijing, where our principal offices are located, or at other locations where we have substantial business operations, we might suffer significant loss of revenues due to the resulting disruptions to our business operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material and adverse effect on the trading price of our ADSs. We are subject to the reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, has adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the effectiveness of such companies’ internal control over financial reporting in its annual report. These requirements apply to this annual report on Form 20-F. Our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting for the period covered by this report was ineffective. The material weaknesses we identified are: (1) the lack of sufficient personnel with necessary knowledge on internal control; (2) insufficient inventory management controls over sample phones which resulted in late significant adjustments to the recording of inventory; and (3) operating ineffectiveness of revenue contracts review and revenue recognition procedures which resulted in late significant adjustments to the recognition of revenue. If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. As a result, our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting may result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. If we lose our license for CDMA-related technology, we may not be able to obtain alternative licenses in a timely manner. We are dependent on QUALCOMM Incorporated, or QUALCOMM, for CDMA-related technology we use in designing CDMA-based mobile handsets. Suspension or termination of our CDMA license agreement by QUALCOMM could adversely affect our business and prospects, because we may not be able to obtain alternative licenses in a timely manner to meet our customers’ demands. We formed a joint venture with QUALCOMM in 2006 to develop application software for wireless devices to initially focus on CDMA mobile handsets. However, we cannot assure you of our continuing successful relationship with QUALCOMM in this joint venture. Any breakdown in this collaboration could adversely affect our business and prospects. Defects in our designs could result in loss of customers and claims against us. Our mobile handset designs are complex and must meet stringent quality requirements. Complex designs such as mobile handset designs sometimes contain defects, errors and bugs when they are first introduced. If any of our designs have reliability, quality or compatibility problems, we may not be able to correct these problems on a timely basis. Consequently, our reputation may be damaged, and customers may be reluctant to continue to contract with us, which could harm our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers. Because we cannot test for all possible scenarios, our designs may contain errors that are not discovered until mass production of mobile handsets. These problems may result in a loss of our customers as well as claims against us. For example, one of our former clients once sought compensation from us due partly to defects in some third-party components we sourced and incorporated in a mobile handset model for the client. This client later acknowledged that the design defects were attributable to the third-party components and cancelled its claim against us. We face such risk not only in the case of the customers for our handset design services, but also in the case of the customers for our product sales. As our revenues are increasingly being dominated by product sales, any design defects in the mobile handsets that we sell to such customers may subject us to liability. We cannot assure you that we will not be subject to claims by our customers in the future, and if we fail on the merits of these claims, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 8 Table of Contents If we cannot keep up with industry standards and design or offer for sales new mobile handset models in a timely and cost-efficient manner to meet our customers’ demand, the growth and success of our business will be materially and adversely affected. The mobile handset market is characterized by changing end-user preferences and demand for new and advanced functions and applications on mobile handsets, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, intense competition, evolving industry standards and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. If we cannot design or offer for sales new mobile handset models in a timely and cost-efficient manner to meet our customers’ demand, the growth and success of our business will be materially and adversely affected. As the market for 2.75G and third-generation, or 3G, mobile handsets develops, our existing and potential customers may increasingly demand 2.75G and 3G mobile handsets. Since 2006, we have begun to design 2.75G, 3G and 3.5G mobile handsets, however we do not have a proven track record in this market. We have received orders for 3G and 3.5G mobile handset designs and in 2007 we launched the WCDMA/GSM dual mode dual standby phone. From 2008 we have also received sales orders from our customers for the above products. However, we cannot assure you that there will be sufficient customer demand for such phones in the future. Further, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully meet our customers’ demand with respect to cost, quality and time to completion. Our failure to meet customer demand could hurt our reputation and affect our business and results of operation. Risks Related To Doing Business in China Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our services and materially and adversely affect our competitive position. Our business operations are primarily conducted in China. We also believe that a significant portion of the mobile handsets we design are sold to end users in China. Accordingly, our results of operations, financial condition and prospects are subject to a significant degree to the economic, political and legal developments of China. Since the late 1970s, the PRC government has been reforming the economic system in China. These reforms have resulted in significant economic growth. However, we cannot predict the future direction of economic reforms or the effects such measures may have on our business, financial position or results of operations. Any adverse change in the economic conditions in China, in policies of the PRC government or in laws and regulations in China, could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China and investment in the mobile handset industry. Such developments could materially and adversely affect our business, lead to reduction in demand for our services and materially and adversely affect our competitive position. Our business benefits from certain tax incentives, and changes to these tax incentives could adversely affect our operating results. On March 16, 2007, the National People’s Congress adopted the Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. Prior to December 31, 2008, Techfaith China and Techfaith Intelligent Handset Beijing applied for High- and New-Tech Enterprises, or HNTE, status that would allow for a reduced applicable tax rate under EIT Law. The official HNTE certificates were issued to Techfaith China and Techfaith Intelligent Handset Beijing on December 24, 2008. While the certificates are valid for three years, we believe we will be able to reapply successfully for the renewal of the current certificates as we believe we will continue to meet the published criteria. Accordingly, Techfaith China and Techfaith Intelligent Handset Beijing have used the reduced applicable tax rate in calculations of deferred tax balances for the foreseeable future. Techfaith Shanghai is qualified as a “productive enterprise” and has been agreed by the relevant tax authorities for a two-year exemption from income tax in 2005 and 2006, followed by a 50% reduction in tax rates for the succeeding three years in 2007, 2008 and 2009. Techfaith Shenzhen is also qualified as a “productive enterprise” and has been agreed by the relevant tax authorities to entitle to a two-year exemption from income tax in 2007 and 2008, followed by a 50% reduction in tax rate for succeeding three years in 2009, 2010 and 2011. Techfaith Hangzhou, is also qualified as a “productive enterprise” and has been agreed by the relevant tax authorities to be entitled to a two-year exemption from income tax in 2007 and 2008, followed by a 50% reduction in tax rate for succeeding three years in 2009, 2010 and 2011. There is, however, no assurance that our subsidiaries in China will continue to receive such or any other preferential tax treatment. If any of these incentives are reduced or eliminated by government authorities in the future, the effective tax rates of our subsidiaries in China and our effective tax rates on a consolidated basis could increase significantly. Any such change could adversely affect our operating results. 9 Table of Contents Our subsidiaries in China are subject to restrictions on dividend payments, or making other payments to us or any other affiliated company. We are a holding company incorporated in the Cayman Islands. We conduct substantially all of our operations through our subsidiaries in China. Current PRC regulations permit our subsidiaries in China to pay dividends only out of their respective accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. In addition, our subsidiaries in China are each required to set aside at least 10% of their respective accumulated profits each year, if any, to fund certain reserve funds. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. In addition, if any of our subsidiaries in China incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us. We may be treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes under the New Tax Law, which may subject us to PRC income tax for our income originated both within and outside the PRC and PRC income tax withholding for any dividends we pay to our non-PRC shareholders. Under the New Tax Law, enterprises established under the laws of non-PRC jurisdictions, but whose de facto management body is located in the PRC, may be treated as “resident enterprises” for PRC tax purposes. The implementing rules of the New Tax Law define de facto management as having substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties of the enterprise. Based on our analysis of the current facts, we believe that Techfaith, and its overseas subsidiaries should not be treated as resident enterprises for PRC tax purposes. It continues to be unclear as to how tax authorities will determine tax residency based on the facts of each case. For the year ended December 31, 2008, our calculation of income taxes generally reflects our status as a non-China tax resident company. If the PRC governmental authorities hold that Techfaith or its overseas subsidiaries should be treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes after January 1, 2008, the effective date of the New Tax Law, our worldwide income will be subject to PRC income tax at the 25% uniform tax rate, which will include any dividend income we receive from our subsidiaries, unless such dividend income is otherwise exempted from taxable income under the New Tax Law. If we are required to pay income tax for dividends we receive from our subsidiaries, it will materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. With the newly imposed 10% PRC dividend withholding tax, we will incur an incremental PRC tax cost when PRC profits are distributed to ultimate shareholders. In addition, if we are determined to be a PRC resident enterprise under the new PRC tax system and receive income other than dividends, our profitability and cash flow would be adversely impacted due to our worldwide income being taxed in China under the new PRC tax law. Moreover, under the new PRC tax law, foreign ADS holders may be subject to a 10% withholding tax upon dividends payable by us and gains realized on the sale or other disposition of ADSs or ordinary shares, if such income is sourced from within the PRC. Although our company is incorporated in the Cayman Islands, it remains unclear whether the dividends payable by us or the gains our foreign ADS holders may realize will be regarded as income from sources within the PRC if we are classified as a PRC resident enterprise. Any such tax on our dividend payments will reduce the returns of your investment. Fluctuation in the value of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar, Euro and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions and China’s foreign exchange policies. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi was permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy caused the Renminbi to appreciate approximately 21.5% against the U.S. dollar over the following three years. Since reaching a high against the U.S. dollar in July 2008, however, the Renminbi has traded within a narrow band against the U.S. dollar, remaining within 1% of its July 2008 high but never exceeding it. As a consequence, the Renminbi has fluctuated sharply since July 2008 against other freely traded currencies, in tandem with the U.S. dollar. For example, the Renminbi appreciated approximately 27% against the Euro between July 2008 and November 2008. It is difficult to predict how long the current situation may last and when and how it may change again. 10 Table of Contents The majority of our revenues are denominated in Renminbi, while a small portion of our cost of revenues is denominated in U.S. dollars. Fluctuations in exchange rates, primarily those involving the U.S. dollar, may affect our cost of revenues and profit margins as well as our net income. In addition, these fluctuations could result in exchange losses and increased costs in Renminbi terms. Also, as dividends might be paid to us in the future by our subsidiaries in China, any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on the value of and any dividends payable on our ADSs in foreign currency terms. If we decide to convert Renminbi we receive from our subsidiaries into U.S. dollars for the purpose of distributing dividends on our ordinary shares or for other purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. Conversely, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the Renminbi amount we receive from the conversion. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by China’s exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into U.S. dollars. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. The principal regulation governing foreign currency exchange in China is the Foreign Currency Administration Rules (1996), as amended. Under these rules, RMB are freely convertible for trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not for direct investment, loan or investment in securities outside China unless the prior approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, is obtained. Although the PRC government regulations now allow greater convertibility of RMB for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain. For example, foreign exchange transactions under our subsidiaries’ capital account, including principal payments in respect of foreign currency-denominated obligations, remain subject to significant foreign exchange controls and the approval of SAFE. Regulations were issued January 24, 2005, April 8, 2005 and October 21, 2005 by SAFE that will require approvals from, and registrations with, PRC government authorities in connection with direct or indirect offshore investment activities by PRC residents and PRC corporate entities. The SAFE regulations retroactively require approval and registration of direct or indirect investments previously made by PRC residents in offshore companies. In the event that a PRC shareholder with a direct or indirect stake in an offshore parent company fails to obtain the required SAFE approval and make the required registration, the PRC subsidiaries of such offshore parent company may be prohibited from making distributions of profit to the offshore parent and from paying the offshore parent proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation in respect of the PRC subsidiaries. Further, failure to comply with the various SAFE approval and registration requirements described above, as currently drafted, could result in liability under PRC law for foreign exchange evasion. Because a majority of our business are operated in China, these regulations could result in the relevant PRC government authorities limiting or eliminating our ability to purchase and retain currencies other than the RMB in the future, which could limit or eliminate our ability to fund any business activities we may have outside China or to make dividend payments in U.S. dollars in the future. PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident shareholders to personal liability and limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us, or otherwise adversely affect us. SAFE issued a public notice in November 2005 requiring PRC residents to register with the local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China for the purpose of capital financing, referred to in the notice as a “special purpose offshore company.” PRC residents that are shareholders of special purpose offshore companies established before November 1, 2005 were required to register with the local SAFE branch before March 31, 2006. 11 Table of Contents We have notified beneficial owners of our company who we know are PRC residents to register with the local SAFE branch if they are required to register under the SAFE notice. The failure or inability of beneficial owners of our company resident in the PRC to comply with the registration procedures set forth therein may subject such beneficial owners to fines and legal sanctions and may also limit our ability to contribute additional capital into our PRC subsidiary, limit our PRC subsidiary’s ability to distribute profits to our company or otherwise adversely affect our business. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us. We conduct substantially all of our business through our subsidiaries established in China. Our subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China and, in particular, laws applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises and Sino-foreign joint ventures. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since the PRC legal system is still evolving, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. Risks Related to Shares and ADSs The future sales by our existing shareholders of a substantial number of our ADSs in the public market could adversely affect the price of our ADSs. If our existing shareholders sell substantial amounts of our ADSs in the public market, the market price of our ADSs could fall. Such sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. As of the date of this annual report, our management collectively beneficially owns approximately 38.4% of our outstanding shares, or approximately 32.0% of our total issued and outstanding shares in the event of a full conversion of the notes held by entities affiliated with IDG Partners into the maximum of 129,941,915 ordinary shares, or 19.99% of our total issued and outstanding shares. They may cause us to register the sale of their shares under the Securities Act. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in these shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act immediately upon the effectiveness of the registration. Sales of these registered shares in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. The market price for our ADSs has been and may continue to be volatile. The market price for our ADSs has been and may continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • conditions in the mobile handset market; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other mobile handset design houses, original design product providers or manufacturers; • performance of other China-based companies that are listed on Nasdaq; • announcements by us or our competitors of new products, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • addition or departure of key personnel; and • fluctuations of exchange rates between the RMB and U.S. dollar. 12 Table of Contents In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. In particular, the global financial crisis and the ensuing deteriorating global economic conditions have caused and may continue to cause extreme volatility in the global stock markets. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our ADSs, regardless of our operating performance. Volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may also adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, some of whom have been granted options or other equity incentives. Our subsidiary has issued convertible notes to certain third-party investors, and the conversion of such notes could result in substantial dilution to the holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs and may depress the price of our ADSs. On June 9, 2009, to accelerate the development of our gaming business, our subsidiary Leo Technology Limited issued US$10 million of common equity to the Hong Kong-based venture capital firm Infiniti Capital Limited and US$10 million aggregate principal amount of 8% senior secured convertible promissory notes with a maturity date of three years to certain entities affiliated with IDGVC Partners, a leading venture capital firm. At the earlier of (i) 30 months after the note issuance date if a qualified initial public offering of Leo Technology Limited has not occurred by that time, or (ii) the occurrence of an event of default, the note holders may also require Leo Technology Limited to redeem the notes in cash equal to the principal amount plus an annual return of 20% compounded annually on the principal amount, accrued but unpaid dividends (if any) and late charges (if any). The notes are convertible into our ordinary shares or Leo Technology Limited’s ordinary shares at the option of the note holders. In the event of a full conversion of the notes, a total of 126,050,421 ordinary shares of our company (subject to adjustment but in any event not exceeding 129,941,915 ordinary shares, or 19.99% of our total and issued outstanding shares) may be issued to the holders of the notes. If the convertible notes are converted into our ordinary shares, the holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs may experience substantial dilution and the market price of our ADSs could decline. The sale of the ordinary shares issued upon such conversion, or the perception that such convertible notes might be converted, or the ordinary shares issued upon such conversion might be sold, could also adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. We may need additional capital, and the sale of additional ADSs or other equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for the next 12 months. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If these resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and our ability to protect our rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association and by the Companies Law (2007 Revision) and common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and provides significantly less protection to investors. Therefore, our public shareholders may have more difficulties in protecting their interests in the face of actions by our management, directors or controlling shareholders than would public shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. In addition, Cayman Islands’ companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action before the federal courts of the United States. As a result, we may not be able to protect our interests if we are harmed in a manner that would otherwise enable us to sue in a United States federal court. 13 Table of Contents Your ability to bring an action against us or against our directors and officers, or to enforce a judgment against us or them, will be limited because we are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, because we conduct a substantial portion of our operations in China and because the majority of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, and we conduct a substantial portion of our operations in China through our wholly owned subsidiaries and several affiliated entities in China. Most of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States and most of the assets of those persons are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. You may not be able to exercise your right to vote. As a holder of ADSs, you may instruct the depositary of our ADSs to vote the shares underlying your ADSs but only if we ask the depositary to ask for your instructions. Otherwise, you will not be able to exercise your right to vote unless you withdraw the shares. However, you may not know about the meeting enough in advance to withdraw the shares. If we ask for your instructions, the depositary will notify you of the upcoming vote and arrange to deliver our voting materials to you. We cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your shares. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions or for the manner of carrying out voting instructions. This means that you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and there may be nothing you can do if the shares underlying your ADSs are not voted as you requested. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act, or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Also, under the deposit agreement, the depositary bank will not make those rights available to you unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act, or exempt from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. You may not receive distributions on ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical to make them available to you. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it decides that it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. We have no obligation to register ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or other securities under U.S. securities laws. We also have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of ADSs. This means that you may not receive the distribution we make on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available to you. These restrictions may have a material adverse effect on the value of your ADSs. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs represented by the ADRs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary thinks it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. 14 Table of Contents We are controlled by a small group of our existing shareholders, whose interests may differ from other shareholders. As of the date of this annual report, our directors and executive officers as a group beneficially own 249,611,999 ordinary shares of our company, of which Mr. Defu Dong, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owns 249,250,000 ordinary shares (constituting approximately 38.3% of our current total issued and outstanding shares, or approximately 32.0% of our total issued and outstanding shares in the event of a full conversion of the notes held by entities affiliated with IDG Partners into the maximum of 129,941,915 ordinary shares, or 19.99% of our total issued and outstanding shares) and has power to vote on behalf of the record holders of these shares over matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including electing directors and approving mergers or other business combination transactions. This concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our ADSs. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequences to U.S. Holders. Based on the price of the ADSs and our ordinary shares, the composition of our income and assets and our operations, we believe that we may have been a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes for our taxable year ended December 31, 2008. We must make a separate determination each year as to whether we are a PFIC (after the close of each taxable year). We expect that even if we were not a PFIC for our taxable year ended December 31, 2008, we will very likely be a PFIC for our current taxable year ending December 31, 2009 unless our share value increases and/or we invest a substantial amount of the cash and other passive assets we hold in assets that produce active assets. A non-U.S. corporation will be considered a PFIC for any taxable year if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets during a taxable year) is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. The value of our assets is generally determined by reference to the market price of our ADSs and ordinary shares, which has decreased significantly. If we were treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. Holder held an ADS or an ordinary share, certain adverse United States federal income tax consequences could apply to the U.S. Holder. See “Item 10. Additional Information —E. Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation — Passive Foreign Investment Company.” 