Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this report before making an investment decision with regard to our securities. The statements contained in or incorporated into this annual report on Form 10-K that are not historic facts are forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by forward-looking statements. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. 7 Risks Relating to Our Overall Business Operations We may not be able to comply with all applicable government regulations. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation by the central, regional and local authorities in the PRC, where our business operations take place. We believe that we are currently in substantial compliance with all laws and governmental regulations and that we have all material permits and licenses required for our operations. Nevertheless, we cannot assure investors that we will continue to be in substantial compliance with current laws and regulations, or that we will be able to comply with any future laws and regulations. To the extent that new regulations are adopted, we will be required to conform our activities in order to comply with such regulations. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and finances. Compliance with environmental regulations can be expensive, and noncompliance with these regulations may result in adverse publicity and potentially significant monetary damages and fines. Our business operations generate noise, waste water, and gaseous and other industrial wastes. We are required to comply with all national and local regulations regarding protection of the environment. We are in compliance with current environmental protection requirements and have all necessary environmental permits to conduct our business. However, if more stringent regulations are adopted in the future, the costs of compliance with these new regulations could be substantial. Additionally, if we fail to comply with present or future environmental regulations, we may be required to pay substantial fines, suspend production or cease operations. Any failure by us to control the use of, or to restrict adequately the discharge of, hazardous substances could subject us to potentially significant monetary damages and fines or suspensions to our business operations. Certain laws, ordinances and regulations could limit our ability to develop, use, or sell our products. Our business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our executive officers, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success depends substantially on the continued services of our executive officers, especially our CEO and Chairman of the Board of Directors, Mr. Hu Xiaoming. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our executive officers. Although this possibility is low, if any of our executive officers are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them readily, if at all. Therefore, our business may be severely disrupted, and we may incur additional expenses to recruit and retain new officers. In addition, if any of our executives joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose some of our customers. We may be subject to product liability claims, recalls or warranty claims, which could be expensive, damage our reputation and result in a diversion of management resources. The Company may be subject to lawsuits resulting from injuries associated with the use of the vehicles that it sells. The Company may incur losses relating to these claims or the defense of these claims. There is a risk that claims or liabilities will exceed our insurance coverage. In addition, the Company may be unable to retain adequate liability insurance in the future. 8 The Company may also be required to participate in recalls involving our vehicles, if any prove to be defective, or we may voluntarily initiate a recall or make payments related to such claims as a result of various industry or business practices or the need to maintain good customer relationships. Such a recall would result in a diversion of resources. While we do maintain product liability insurance, we cannot assure you that it will be sufficient to cover all product liability claims, that such claims will not exceed our insurance coverage limits or that such insurance will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Any product liability claim brought against us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. As disclosed in a number of areas, including Item 3 of this Form 10-K, there are two lawsuits currently pending in state court in Ripley County, Missouri against the Company and its subsidiary, Kandi Vehicles, as well as other third parties, in connection with the death of two individuals who died on March 3, 2006, while operating a go-cart that was allegedly manufactured by Kandi Vehicles. The Company intends to defend these cases vigorously and expects to prevail in this lawsuit since neither the Company nor its subsidiaries manufactured the subject vehicle in the accident; however, if the Company does not prevail, or resolve this lawsuit favorably, these lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. General economic conditions may negatively impact our results. The consumption of entertainment products, such as go-karts, and super-mini-cars depends on continued economic growth. Due to the European Debt Crisis and the slow global economy, the uncertainty of the current economic environment remains. Moderate or severe economic downturns or adverse conditions may negatively affect our operations. These conditions may be widespread or isolated to one or more geographic regions. A tightening of the labor markets in one or more geographic regions may result in fewer qualified applicants for job openings in our facilities. Higher wages, related labor costs and other increasing cost trends may negatively impact our results. Government policies may negatively affect our result The Company’s EV products currently are mainly sold to Chinese domestic market, and EV industry is supported by the Chinese central and local governments. Therefore, our EV products performance is significantly affected by the policies adopted by Chinese central and local governments. Any significant adverse changes in the Chinese governments’ supporting policies may negatively affect our results. The audit report included in this annual report was prepared by auditors who are not inspected by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as a result, you are deprived of the benefits of such inspection The independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the SEC, as auditors of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or the "PCAOB", is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because our auditors are located in Hong Kong, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections, our auditors are not currently inspected by the PCAOB. Inspections of other firms that the PCAOB has conducted outside the US have identified deficiencies in those firms' audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. This lack of PCAOB inspections in China and Hong Kong prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating our auditor's audits and its quality control procedures. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. 9 The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of auditors in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor's audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors outside of China that are subject to PCAOB inspections. Investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. Risks Relating to Our Vehicle Machinery Production Operations We may be subject to significant potential liabilities as a result of defects in production and product liability. Through our machinery production operations, we may be subject to claims of product defects and/or product liability arising in the ordinary course of business. These claims are common to the machinery production industry and can be costly. With respect to certain general liability exposures, including manufacturing defect and product liability, interpretation of underlying current and future trends, assessment of claims and the related liability and reserve estimation process is highly subjective due to the complex nature of these exposures, with each exposure exhibiting unique circumstances. Furthermore, once claims are asserted for construction defects, it is difficult to determine the extent to which the assertion of these claims will expand geographically. We may not have sufficient funds available to cover any liability for damages, the cost of repairs, and/or the expense of litigation surrounding such claims, and future claims may arise out of events or circumstances not covered by insurance and not subject to effective indemnification agreements with our subcontractors. The vehicle machinery industry is highly competitive, and we are subject to risks relating to competition that may adversely affect our performance. The vehicle machinery industry is highly competitive, and our continued success depends upon our ability to compete effectively in markets that contain numerous competitors, some of which have significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. Competition may reduce our pricing structures, potentially causing us to lower our prices, which may adversely impact our profits. New or existing competition that uses a business model that is different from our business model may put pressure on us to change our model so that we can remain competitive. Our high concentration of sales to relatively few customers may result in significant uncollectible accounts receivable exposure, which may adversely impact our liquidity, business, results of operations and financial condition. As of December 31, 2012, our top five customers, in the aggregate, accounted for 83% and 86%, respectively, of our sales and accounts receivable. Due to the concentration of sales to relatively few customers, we face credit exposure from our customers and may experience uncollectible receivables from these customers should they face financial difficulties. If these customers fail to pay their accounts receivable, file for bankruptcy or significantly reduce their purchases of our programming, it would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. 10 The Company’s major customers for the year ended December 31, 2012 accounted for the following percentages of total sales and accounts receivable as follows: Sales Accounts Receivable Twelve Twelve Months Months Ended Ended Major Customers December 31, 2012 December 31, 2011 December 31, 2012 December 31, 2011 Company A 33% 8% 21% 2% Company B 19% - 42% - Company C 12% 25% 8% 56% Company D 11% 20% 7% 19% Company E 8% - 8% - Our business is subject to the risk of supplier concentrations. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for the sourcing of major components and parts and principal raw materials. As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, one supplier accounted for 32% and 61% of our purchases, respectively. As a result of this concentration in our supply chain, our business and operations would be negatively affected if any of our key suppliers were to experience significant disruption affecting the price, quality, availability or timely delivery of their products. The partial or complete loss of these suppliers, or a significant adverse change in our relationship with any of these suppliers, could result in lost revenue, added costs and distribution delays that could harm our business and customer relationships. In addition, concentration in our supply chain can exacerbate our exposure to risks associated with the termination by key suppliers of our distribution agreements or any adverse change in the terms of such agreements, which could have a negative impact on our revenues and profitability. The Company’s major suppliers for the twelve months ended December 31, 2012 accounted for the following percentage of total purchases and accounts payable as follows: Purchases Accounts Payable Twelve Twelve Months Months Ended Ended Major Suppliers December 31, 2012 December 31, 2011 December 31, 2012 December 31, 2011 Company F 32% 61% 4% 1% Company G 26% - - - Company H 6% - 1% - Company I 2% - 1% - Company J 2% - 1% - 11 Risks Related to Doing Business in China Changes in political and economic conditions may affect our business operations and profitability. Since our business operations are primarily located in China, our business operations and financial position are subject, to a significant degree, to the economic, political and legal developments in China. While the Chinese government has not halted its economic reform policy since 1978, any significant adverse changes in the social, political and economic conditions of China may fundamentally impact China’s economic reform policies, and thus the Company’s operations and profits may be adversely affected. Change in tax laws and regulations in China may affect our business operations. Various tax reform policies have been implemented in the PRC in recent years. However, there can be no assurance that the existing tax laws and regulations will not be revised or amended in the future. Uncertainties with respect to the Chinese legal system could have a material adverse effect on us and may restrict the level of legal protections to foreign investors. China’s legal system is based on statutory law. Unlike the common law system, statutory law is based primarily on written statutes. Previous court decisions may be cited as persuasive authority but do not have a binding effect. Since 1979, the PRC government has been promulgating and amending the laws and regulations regarding economic matters, such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. However, since these laws and regulations are relatively new, and the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretation of many laws, regulations and rules is not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involves uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management’s attention. The legal system in China cannot provide investors with the same level of protection as in the U.S. The Company is governed by the law and regulations generally applicable to local enterprises in China. Many of these laws and regulations were recently introduced and remain experimental in nature and subject to changes and refinements. Interpretation, implementation and enforcement of the existing laws and regulations can be uncertain and unpredictable and therefore may restrict the legal protections of foreign investors. Changes in Currency Conversion Policies in China may have a material adverse effect on us. Renminbi (“RMB”) is still not a freely exchangeable currency. Since 1998, the State Administration of Foreign Exchange of China has promulgated a series of circulars and rules in order to enhance verification of foreign exchange payments under a Chinese entity’s current account items, and has imposed strict requirements on borrowing and repayments of foreign exchange debts from and to foreign creditors under the capital account items and on the creation of foreign security in favor of foreign creditors. 12 This may complicate foreign exchange payments to foreign creditors under the current account items and thus will affect the ability to borrow under international commercial loans, the creation of foreign security, and the borrowing of RMB under guarantees in foreign currencies. Furthermore, the value of RMB may become subject to supply and demand, which could be largely impacted by international economic and political environments. Any fluctuations in the exchange rate of RMB could have an adverse effect on the operational and financial condition of the Company and its subsidiaries in China. You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions based on United States or other foreign laws against us, our management or the experts named in the prospectus. We conduct substantially all of our operations in China and substantially all of our assets are located in China. In addition, almost all of our senior executive officers reside in China. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon our senior executive officers, including with respect to matters arising under U.S. federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. Moreover, our PRC counsel has advised us that the PRC does not have treaties with the United States or many other countries providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgment of courts. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Securities Our stock price may be volatile, which may result in losses to our shareholders. The stock markets have experienced significant price and trading volume fluctuations, and the market prices of companies listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market and NASDAQ Global Market have been volatile in the past and have experienced sharp share price and trading volume changes. Although our stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, the trading price of our common stock is likely to be volatile and could fluctuate widely in response to many factors, including the following, some of which are beyond our control: variations in our operating results; changes in expectations of our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; changes in operating and stock price performance of other companies in our industry; additions or departures of key personnel; and future sales of our common stock. 13 Domestic and international stock markets often experience significant price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations, as well as general economic and political conditions unrelated to our performance, may adversely affect the price of our common stock. Mr. Hu, our CEO, President and Chairman of our Board of Directors is the beneficial owner of a substantial portion of our outstanding common stock, which may enable Mr. Hu to exert significant influence on corporate actions. Excelvantage Group Limited controls approximately 37.9% of our outstanding shares of common stock as of December 31, 2012. On March 29, 2010, Hu Xiaoming, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, President and Chairman of the Board of Directors, became the sole stockholder of Excelvantage Group Limited. Excelvantage Group Limited has a substantial impact on matters requiring the vote of the shareholders, including the election of our directors and most corporate actions. This control could delay, defer or prevent others from initiating a potential merger, takeover or other change in our control, even if these actions would benefit our other shareholders and the Company. This control could adversely affect the voting and other rights of our other shareholders and could depress the market price of our common stock. Our common shares may become thinly traded and you may be unable to sell your shares readily We cannot predict the extent to which an active public market for trading our common stock will be sustained. Although our trading volume has increased gradually in recent years, our stock has historically been sporadic or “thinly-traded,” meaning that the number of persons interested in purchasing our common shares at any given time may be relatively small. This situation is attributable to a number of factors, including the fact that we are a small company which is relatively unknown to stock analysts, stock brokers, institutional investors and others in the investment community who generate or influence sales volume. Even if we came to the attention of such persons, those persons tend to be risk-averse and may be reluctant to follow, purchase, or recommend the purchase of shares of an unproven company such as ours until such time as we become more seasoned and viable. As a consequence, there may be periods of several days or more when trading activity in our shares is minimal, as compared to a seasoned issuer which has a large and steady volume of trading activity that will generally support continuous sales without an adverse effect on share price. We cannot give you any assurance that a broader or more active public trading market for our common stock will develop or be sustained, or that current trading levels will be sustained. The market price for our common stock is particularly volatile given our status as a relatively small company, which could lead to wide fluctuations in our share price. You may be unable to sell your common stock at or above your purchase price if at all, which may result in substantial losses to you. Substantial exercise of warrants could adversely affect our stock price or our ability to raise additional financing in the public capital markets. As of December 31, 2012, there were 2,274,851 shares of warrants outstanding. If the warrant holders exercise the warrants and sell a substantial number of shares of our Common Stock in the future, or if investors perceive that these sales may occur, the market price of our Common Stock could decline or market demand for our Common Stock could be sharply reduced. The exercise of warrants and subsequent sale of a substantial number of shares of our Common Stock could also adversely affect demand for, and the market price of, our Common Stock. Each of these transactions could adversely affect our ability to raise additional financing by issuing equity or equity-based securities in the public capital markets. As of the filing date of this Form 10-K, the number warrant shares outstanding as of December 31, 2012 (2,274,851) has been reduced, as a result of expiration or exercises to 1,210,912. 14 We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends to our common shareholders. We presently do not anticipate that we will pay dividends on any of our common stock in the foreseeable future. If payment of dividends does occur at some point in the future, it would be contingent upon our revenues and earnings, if any, capital requirements, and general financial condition. The payment of any common stock dividends will be within the discretion of our Board of Directors. We presently intend to retain all earnings after paying the interest for the preferred stock, if any, to implement our business plan; accordingly, we do not anticipate the declaration of any dividends for common stock in the foreseeable future. Fluctuation in the value of the RMB may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The change in value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar, the Euro and other currencies is affected by changes in China’s political and economic conditions, among other things. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the RMB to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the RMB is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. While the international reaction to the RMB revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. As a portion of our costs and expenses is denominated in RMB, the revaluation in July 2005 and potential future revaluation has and could further increase our costs. In addition, any significant revaluation of the RMB may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars we receive from financings into RMB for our operations, appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the RMB amount we receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert our RMB into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the RMB would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. We may be unable to maintain compliance with NASDAQ Marketplace Rules which could cause our common stock to be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market. This could result in the lack of a market for our common stock, cause a decrease in the value of our common stock, and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Under the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules our common stock must maintain a minimum price of $1.00 per share for continued inclusion on the NASDAQ Global Market. We cannot guarantee that our stock price will remain at or above $1.00 per share and if the price again drops below $1.00 per share, the stock could become subject to delisting. If our common stock is delisted, trading of the stock will most likely take place on an over-the-counter market established for unlisted securities. An investor is likely to find it less convenient to sell, or to obtain accurate quotations in seeking to buy, our common stock on an over-the-counter market, and many investors may not buy or sell our common stock due to difficulty in accessing over-the-counter markets, or due to policies preventing them from trading in securities not listed on a national exchange or other reasons. For these reasons and others, delisting would adversely affect the liquidity, trading volume and price of our common stock, causing the value of an investment in us to decrease and having an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations by limiting our ability to attract and retain qualified executives and employees and limiting our ability to raise capital. 15 Volatility in Our Common Share Price May Subject Us to Securities Litigation. The market for our common stock is characterized by significant price volatility as compared to seasoned issuers, and we expect that our share price will continue to be more volatile than a seasoned issuer for the indefinite future. In the past, plaintiffs have often initiated securities class action litigation against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We may, in the future, be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and liabilities and could divert management’s attention and resources. The Elimination of Monetary Liability Against our Directors, Officers and Employees under Delaware law and the Existence of Indemnification Rights of our Directors, Officers and Employees May Result in Substantial Expenditures by our Company and may Discourage Lawsuits Against our Directors, Officers and Employees. Our articles of incorporation do not contain any specific provisions that eliminate the liability of our directors for monetary damages to our company and shareholders; however, we are prepared to give such indemnification to our directors and officers to the extent provided for by Delaware law. We may also have contractual indemnification obligations under our employment agreements with our officers. The foregoing indemnification obligations could result in our company incurring substantial expenditures to cover the cost of settlement or damage awards against directors and officers, which we may be unable to recoup. These provisions and resultant costs may also discourage our company from bringing a lawsuit against directors and officers for breaches of their fiduciary duties, and may similarly discourage the filing of derivative litigation by our shareholders against our directors and officers even though such actions, if successful, might otherwise benefit our company and shareholders. We may need additional capital, and the sale of additional shares or other equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. In the future, we may require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If our resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities could result in dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. 16 Our business is subject to changing regulations related to corporate governance and public disclosure that have increased both our costs and the risk of noncompliance. Because our common stock is publicly traded, we are subject to certain rules and regulations of federal, state and financial market exchange entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC and NASDAQ, have issued requirements and regulations and continue to develop additional regulations and requirements in response to corporate scandals and laws enacted by Congress, most notably the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our efforts to comply with these regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue resulting in, increased general and administrative expenses and diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Because new and modified laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This evolution may result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and additional costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to our disclosure and governance practices. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 17 