Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related To Our Business and Industry Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and will continue to fluctuate in the future, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past, and we believe that they will continue to fluctuate in the future, due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. For example, our revenues were $71.4 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2007, increased to $111.3 million for the quarter ended December 29, 2007 and decreased to $67.8 million for the quarter ended March 29, 2008 and then increased to $75.8 million for the quarter ended June 28, 2008 and then decreased to $65.1 million for the quarter ended September 27, 2008 and then decreased further to $38.8 million for the quarter ended January 3, 2009. The decrease in revenue in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 is attributed to a variety of reasons including a slowing of the global economy. Further, our gross margin decreased dramatically in the second quarter of 2008 as a result of competition for the business of a principal customer. We expect that our revenues, gross margin and earnings per share will fluctuate on a quarterly basis in future periods. If in future periods our operating results do not meet the expectations of investors or analysts who choose to follow our company, our stock price may fall. Factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include the following: • fluctuations in the buying patterns and sizes of customer orders from one quarter to the next; • increased competition causing us to sell our products or services at decreasing margins; • location and timing requirements for the delivery of our products and services; • addition of new customers or loss of existing customers, especially involving our largest customers; • gross margin obtained on the sales of products and services, especially to our largest customers; • write-off of excess and obsolete inventory; • impairment and shortening of the useful life of components from our suppliers; • unexpected changes in the price for, and the availability of, components from our suppliers; • our ability to enhance our products with new and better designs and functionality; • costs associated with obtaining components to satisfy customer demand; • productivity and growth of our sales force; • actions taken by our competitors, such as new product announcements or introductions or changes in pricing; • revenues and gross margin disparity among our lines of server product and storage product lines; • market acceptance of our newer products, such as ICE Cube and CloudRack 13 Table of Contents • technology regulatory compliance, certification and intellectual property issues associated with our products; • the payment of unexpected legal fees and potential damages or settlements resulting from protecting or defending our intellectual property or other matters; • the payment of significant damages or settlements resulting from faulty or malfunctioning products or the provision of services unsatisfactory to our customers; • the departure and acquisition of key management and other personnel; and • general economic trends, including changes in information technology spending or geopolitical events such as war or incidents of terrorism. We are substantially dependent on a concentrated number of customers, specifically Internet companies that purchase in large quantities. If we are unable to maintain or replace our relationships with these customers and/or diversify our customer base, our revenues may fluctuate and our growth may be limited. Historically, a significant portion of our revenues has come from a limited number of customers. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to sustain our revenue levels from these customers because our revenues have largely been generated in connection with these customers’ decisions to deploy large-scale server and storage farms and their capacity requirements may become fulfilled. In 2007, our three largest customers accounted for 64% of our revenues. In 2008, our three largest customers accounted for 56% of our revenue. Moreover, the proportion of our revenues derived from a limited number of customers may be even higher in any future quarter. If we cannot maintain or replace the customers that purchase large amounts of our products, or if they do not purchase products at the levels or at the times that we anticipate, our ability to maintain or grow our revenues will be adversely affected. To maintain our relationships with our largest customers, and to continue to win their business, we may from time to time sell products to them at less than optimal gross margins. For example, in the second quarter of 2008 our gross margin was negatively impacted by an order shipped in the quarter to a significant customer priced at unfavorable gross margins with the intent of preserving an existing and significant customer relationship. In addition, customer concentration may expose us to credit risk, as a large portion of our accounts receivable may be from a small number of customers. For example, as of January 3, 2009, 77% of our accounts receivable were owed to us from our three largest customers. In 2007 and 2008, a substantial majority of our revenues were generated from companies that compete in the Internet market. A significant part of our growth has been due to the fact that these companies are doing well and, in many cases, expanding and, as a result, have been purchasing large quantities of products from us. If economic factors change for these Internet companies, as they have before, our ability to maintain or grow our revenues will be adversely affected. The recent economic downturn, volatile business environment and continued unpredictable and unstable market conditions adversely impact the internet sector and our key customers, negatively affecting our business and outlook. We face intense competition from the leading enterprise computing companies in the world as well as from emerging companies. If we are unable to compete effectively, we might not be able to achieve sufficient market penetration, revenue growth or profitability. The markets for compute server products and storage products are highly competitive. In addition to intensely competitive smaller companies, we face challenges from some of the most established companies in the computer industry, such as Dell, Inc, Hewlett-Packard Company (“H-P”), International Business Machines Corporation and Sun Microsystems, Inc in the computer server market. In the storage market, we compete primarily with EMC Corporation, H-P, Hitachi Data Systems, Inc, Super Micro Computer, Inc and Network Appliance, Inc. These larger competitors have at least the following advantages over us: • substantially greater market presence and greater name recognition; 14 Table of Contents • substantially greater financial, technical, research and development, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution and other resources; • longer operating histories; • a broader offering of products and services; • more established relationships with customers, suppliers and other technology companies; and • the ability to acquire technologies or consolidate with other companies in the industry to compete more effectively. Because these competitors may have greater financial strength than we do and are able to offer a more diversified bundle of products and services, they may have the ability to severely undercut the pricing of our products or provide additional products or servicing at little or no cost, which would make us less competitive or force us to reduce our average selling prices, negatively impacting our margins. In the past, we have had transactions where one or more competitors undercut our prices causing us to reduce our price, which negatively impacted our gross margin on that transaction and our overall gross margin. In addition, we have on occasion lost sales opportunities due to a competitor undercutting the pricing of our products or maintaining superior brand recognition. These competitors may be able to develop products that are superior to the commercially available components that we incorporate into our products, or may be able to offer products that provide significant price advantages over those we offer. For instance, a competitor could use its resources to develop proprietary motherboards with specifications and performance that are superior in comparison with the platforms that are currently available to the marketplace, which could give that competitor a distinct technological advantage. In addition, if our competitors’ products become more accepted than our products, our competitive position will be impaired. As the enterprise computing industry evolves, we expect to encounter additional competitors, including companies in adjacent technology businesses such as storage and networking infrastructure and management, companies providing technology that is complementary to ours in functionality, such as datacenter management software, contract manufacturers, and other emerging companies that may announce server product offerings. Moreover, our current and potential competitors, including companies with whom we currently have strategic alliances, may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with other third parties. If this occurs, new competitors or alliances may emerge that could negatively impact our competitive position. Our products incorporate open standard, commoditized components and materials that we obtain in spot markets, and, as a result, our cost structure and our ability to respond in a timely manner to customer demand are sensitive to volatility of the market prices for these components and materials. A significant portion of our cost of goods sold is directly related to the pricing of commoditized materials and components utilized in the manufacture of our products, such as memory, hard drives, central processing units (“CPUs”), or power supplies. As part of our procurement model, we generally do not enter into long-term supply contracts for these materials and components, but instead, purchase these materials and components in a competitive bid purchase order environment with suppliers or on the open market at spot prices. As a result, our cost structure is affected by the availability and price volatility in the marketplace for these components and materials, especially for Dynamic Random Access Memory (“DRAM”), and new versions of hard drives and CPUs that are introduced by our suppliers. In the fourth quarter of 2006, we experienced volatility in DRAM prices that caused us to procure DRAM at prices higher than anticipated, which negatively impacted our overall gross margin for the quarter. In 2007 and 2008, prices of DRAM decreased. This volatility makes it difficult to predict expense levels and operating results and may cause them to fluctuate significantly. In addition, if we are successful in growing our business, we may not be able to continue to procure components solely on the spot market, which would require us to enter into contracts with component suppliers to obtain these components. This could increase our costs and decrease our gross margins. Also, if we try to take advantage of favorable pricing of a particular component by purchasing a large quantity, there is the risk that a shift in our customers’ preferred components may render any stockpiled components of little value to us. For example, we recorded a 15 Table of Contents $16.6 million expense related to the write down for excess and obsolete inventory during fiscal year 2007, contributed in part by customer driven technology platform shift from AMD to Intel, affecting demand for memory, motherboards, CPUs and chassis that we had previously purchased. In addition, because our procurement model involves our ability to maintain a low inventory and to acquire materials and components as needed, and because we do not enter into long-term supply contracts for these materials and components, our ability to effectively and efficiently respond to customer orders may be constrained by the then-current availability or the terms and pricing of these materials and components. Our industry has experienced component shortages and delivery delays in the past, and in the future we may experience shortages or delays of critical components as a result of strong demand in the industry or other factors. As one example, DRAM can represent a significant portion of our cost of revenues, and both the price and availability of various kinds of DRAM are subject to substantial volatility in the spot market. In the fourth quarter of 2006 we encountered situations where we were forced to pay higher prices than we anticipated for DRAM and we have encountered situations where DRAM was in tight supply and we were unable to deliver customer orders on their anticipated delivery dates. As another example, the industry in the past has experienced a shortage of selected Intel chips, which caused some of our motherboard suppliers to reduce or suspend shipments of motherboards using these chips. This impacted our ability to ship selected configurations to some of our customers, and in some cases accelerated a transition to other platforms. If shortages or delays arise, the prices of these components may increase or the components may not be available at all. We may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build new products to meet customer demand, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. In addition, if any of our suppliers, such as Intel or AMD, were to increase the costs to Rackable for components we use, we would either pass these price increases on to our customers, which could cause us to lose business from these customers, or we would need to absorb these price increases, which would cause our margins to decrease, either of which could adversely affect our business and financial results. We intend to expand our operations and increase our expenditures in an effort to grow our business. If we are not able to manage this growth and expansion, or if our business does not grow as we expect, our operating results may suffer. We intend to continue to grow our business by entering new markets, acquisitions, developing new product and service offerings and pursuing new customers. In connection with this growth, we expect that our annual operating expenses may increase over the next several years to the extent we expand our sales and marketing, research and development, manufacturing and production infrastructure, and our customer service and support efforts. Our failure to timely or efficiently expand operational and financial systems and to implement or maintain effective internal controls and procedures could result in additional operating inefficiencies that could increase our costs and expenses more than we had planned and might cause us to lose the ability to take advantage of market opportunities, enhance existing products, develop new products, satisfy customer requirements, respond to competitive pressures or otherwise execute our business plan. Additionally, if we do increase our operating expenses in anticipation of the growth of our business and this growth does not meet our expectations, our financial results could be negatively impacted. If we acquire or invest in other companies, assets or technologies and we are not able to integrate them with our business, or we do not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for any of these existing or future transactions, our financial performance may be impaired. If appropriate opportunities present themselves, as they have in the past, we may consider acquiring or making investments in companies, assets or technologies that we believe are strategic. We only have limited experience in doing so, and for any such company, asset or technology which we successfully acquire or invest in, we will be exposed to a number of risks, including: • we may find that the acquired company, asset or technology does not further our business strategy, that we overpaid for the company, asset or technology or that the economic conditions underlying our acquisition decision have changed; 16 Table of Contents • we may have difficulty integrating the assets, technologies, operations or personnel of an acquired company, or retaining the key personnel of the acquired company; • our ongoing business and management’s attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and the complexity of managing geographically or culturally diverse enterprises; • we may encounter difficulty entering and competing in new product or geographic markets or increased competition, including price competition or intellectual property litigation; and • we may experience significant problems or liabilities associated with product quality, technology and legal contingencies relating to the acquired business or technology, such as intellectual property or employment matters. For example, in connection with our acquisition of Terrascale Technologies, Inc., we expended a great deal of effort and resources, but have been unable to generate revenue, increase gross profit or contribute positive cash flow into our business, sufficient to realize our investment, causing us to exit this product line. This resulted in an impairment charge of $17.5 million for the year ended January 3, 2009. We have shown the results of this product line as a discontinued operation in our consolidated financial statements. If we were to proceed with one or more significant acquisitions or investments in which the consideration included cash, we could be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash. To the extent we issue shares of capital stock or other rights to purchase capital stock, including options and warrants, existing stockholders might be diluted and earnings per share might decrease. In addition, acquisitions and investments may result in the incurrence of debt, large one-time write-offs, such as of acquired in-process research and development costs, and restructuring charges. We intend to further expand our sales into additional international markets, which may be more difficult than we expect, and if we are unable to do so successfully, our revenues and operating results may be adversely impacted. One component of our growth strategy is to continue to expand into international markets. However, we have limited experience in selling our systems overseas, and we may encounter unexpected difficulties in doing so. To date, our sales to these geographies have been primarily originated from our U.S. based multi-national customers. If we are not able to successfully expand into international markets, our ability to grow our business will be adversely affected. Some of the factors that may impact our ability to initiate and maintain sales in foreign markets include: • our ability to establish international manufacturing, support and service, which could be costly and time consuming; • our ability to establish channel relationships with resellers in international markets; • adoption of new laws or changes to existing international laws; • our ability to service international installations; • compliance with local laws, regulations and requirements for doing business in such jurisdictions; • tax liabilities and currency fluctuations; and • political and economic instability. Our business depends on decisions by potential customers to adopt our modular, open standard-based products and to replace their legacy server systems with our products, and they may be reluctant to do so, which would limit our growth. Our business depends on companies moving away from large proprietary RISC/UNIX servers to standardized servers that utilize commercially available x86 processor architectures and can deploy a variety of operating systems, including Linux and Microsoft Windows. Excluding sales to Microsoft Corporation, we 17 Table of Contents believe that a majority of the server systems that we sold in 2008, 2007 and 2006 ran on the Linux operating system and are subject to the GNU General Public License. While litigation involving the SCO Group’s claim against IBM that Linux is an unauthorized derivative work of the UNIX® operating system has been stayed due to SCO’s bankruptcy filing, if it ultimately results in a ruling that users of Linux must pay royalties to SCO or others, that could impede broader Linux adoption and could materially harm our ability to sell our products based on the Linux operating system. In addition, Microsoft has publicly claimed that Linux infringes 235 or more of Microsoft’s patents and has entered into transactions with Novell inc. and other Linux distributors under which the parties reportedly agree, among other things, not to sue each other’s customers for potential patent infringements related to Linux. It is possible that a party (including Microsoft) could prove a claim for proprietary rights in the Linux operating system or other programs developed and distributed under the GNU General Public License. In addition, the GNU General Public License is a subject of litigation, and it is possible that a court could hold these licenses to be unenforceable in that litigation. Any ruling by a court that the Linux operating system or significant portions of it may not be copied, modified or distributed subject only to the minimal restrictions contained in these licenses, that users or distributors of Linux must pay royalties to Microsoft or others or that these licenses are not enforceable could also impede broader Linux adoption and materially harm our ability to sell our products based on the Linux operating system. Further, because potential customers have often invested significant capital and other resources in existing systems, many of which run mission-critical applications, customers may be hesitant to make dramatic changes to their datacenter systems. The failure of our customers and potential customers to replace their legacy server systems and adopt open standard-based modular technologies could have a material adverse impact on our ability to maintain or generate additional revenues. We rely primarily on our direct sales force to generate revenues, and may be unable to hire additional qualified sales personnel in a timely manner or retain our existing sales representatives. To date, we have relied primarily on our direct sales force to sell our products in the United States. Because we are looking to expand our customer base and grow our sales to existing customers, we will need to continue to hire qualified sales personnel if we are to achieve our anticipated revenue growth. The competition for qualified sales personnel in our industry, and particularly in Silicon Valley, is very intense. If we are unable to hire, train, deploy and manage qualified sales personnel in a timely manner, our ability to grow our business will be impaired. For example, in the past it has taken us up to six months to hire a qualified sales executive and it may take a newly-hired sales executive up to nine months after hiring to become productive, resulting in aggregate lag time between the commencements of the search to productivity, in excess of one year. In addition, if we are unable to retain our existing sales personnel, or if our sales personal are ineffective, our ability to maintain or grow our current level of revenues will be adversely affected. In addition, a large percentage of our revenue is generated from a small number of customers. If we are unable to retain the sales personnel who are responsible for those customer accounts, our business could be negatively impacted. We are continuing to develop and execute upon a channel strategy to generate additional sales and revenues, and the failure to successfully expand channel sales might affect our ability to sustain revenue growth and may harm our business and operations. An increasing portion of our sales strategy is to develop our sales efforts through the use of resellers and other third parties to sell our systems. We may not be successful in building or expanding relationships with these third parties. Further, even if we do develop and expand these relationships, they may conflict with our direct sales efforts in some territories. Ineffective marketing of our products by our resellers or disruptions in our distribution channels could lead to decreased sales or slower than expected growth in revenues and might harm our business and operations. 18 Table of Contents Our sales cycle requires us to expend a significant amount of resources, and could have an adverse effect on the amount, timing and predictability of future revenues. The sales cycle of our products, beginning from our first customer contact to closing of the sale, often ranges from three to six months. We may expend significant resources during the sales cycle and ultimately fail to close the sale. The success of our product sales process is subject to factors, over which we have little or no control, including: • the timing of our customers’ budget cycles and approval processes; • our customers’ existing use of, or willingness to adopt, open standard server products, or to replace their existing servers or expand their processing capacity with our products; • the announcement or introduction of competing products; and • established relationships between our competitors and our potential customers. We expend substantial time, effort and money educating our current and prospective customers as to the value of our products. Even if we are successful in persuading lower-level decision makers within our customers’ organizations of the benefits of our products, senior management might nonetheless elect not to buy our products after months of sales efforts by our employees or resellers. If we were unsuccessful in closing sales after expending significant resources, our revenues and operating expenses will be adversely affected. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property adequately, we may not be able to compete effectively. Our intellectual property is critical to our success and our ability to compete. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, our competitors might gain access to our technology. Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property. For example, in September 2005, we filed a patent infringement action against one defendant in response to which the defendant counterclaimed that two of our patents are invalid and not infringed. In addition, we previously initiated two patent infringement actions against six defendants, seeking to enforce our intellectual property rights. We obtained consent judgments and permanent injunctions against five of the defendants, and reached a confidential settlement with the sixth. However, litigation is inherently uncertain, and there is no assurance that any litigation we initiate will have a successful outcome. Monitoring unauthorized use of our technology is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where we have two patent applications pending but do not have any issued patents, and the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as the laws of the United States. Any claims or litigation that we have initiated or that we may initiate in the future to protect our proprietary technology could be time consuming and expensive and divert the attention of our technical and management resources whether or not the claims or litigation are decided in our favor. We currently have a small number of patents issued in the United States and a number of utility patent applications pending. These patents may be limited in value in asserting our intellectual property rights against more established companies in the computer technology sector that have sizeable patent portfolios and greater capital resources. In addition, patents may not be issued from these patent applications, and even if patents are issued, they may not benefit us or give us adequate protection from competing products. For example, issued patents might be circumvented or challenged, and could be declared invalid or unenforceable. Moreover, if other companies develop unpatented proprietary technology similar to ours or competing technologies, our competitive position will be weakened. If we are found to have violated the intellectual property rights of others, we could be required to indemnify our customers, resellers or suppliers, redesign our products, pay significant royalties and enter into license agreements with third parties. Our industry is characterized by a large number of patents, copyrights, trade secrets and trademarks and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violation of intellectual property rights. As we 19 Table of Contents continue our business, expand our product lines and our product functionality, and expand into new jurisdictions around the world, third parties may assert that our technology or products violate their intellectual property rights. Any claim, regardless of its merits, could be expensive and time consuming to defend against. It would also divert the attention of our technical and management resources. Successful intellectual property claims against us could result in significant financial liability, impair our ability to compete effectively, or prevent us from operating our business or portions of our business. In addition, resolution of claims may require us to redesign our technology, to obtain licenses to use intellectual property belonging to third parties, which we may not be able to obtain on reasonable terms, to cease using the technology covered by those rights, and to indemnify our customers, resellers or suppliers. Any of these events could negatively affect our competitive position and materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we lose the services of one or more members of our current executive management team or other key employees, or if we are unable to attract additional executives or key employees, we may not be able to execute on our business strategy. Our future success depends in large part upon the continued service and enhancement of our executive management team and other key employees, including, for example, Mark Barrenechea, who joined our company as our chief executive officer, at the end of April 2007. Changes in management can be disruptive within a company, which could negatively affect our operations, our culture and our strategic direction. All of our employees are “at will” and their employment can be terminated by us or them at any time. The failure of our management team to seamlessly manage employee transitions, or the loss of services of any of these executives or of one or more other members of our executive management or sales team or other key employees could seriously harm our business. Competition for qualified executives is intense, particularly in Silicon Valley, and if we are unable to continue expanding our management team, or successfully integrate new additions to our management team in a manner that enables us to scale our business and operations effectively, our ability to operate effectively and efficiently could be limited or negatively impacted. In addition, in January 2009 we reduced our workforce by approximately 15% as part of our efforts to reduce costs and improve the efficiency and profitability of our business. This reductions in our workforce may impair our ability to recruit and retain qualified employees. If we need to rehire terminated individuals or hire individuals with similar skills, we may be unable to do so. If we fail to maintain or expand our relationships with our suppliers, we may not have adequate access to new or key technology necessary for our products, and, as a result, our ability to deliver leading-edge products may be impaired. In addition to the technologies we develop, our suppliers develop product innovations at our direction that are requested by our customers. In many cases, we retain the ownership of the intellectual property developed by these suppliers. In addition, we rely heavily on our component suppliers, such as Intel and AMD, to provide us with leading-edge components. If we are not able to maintain or expand our relationships with our suppliers or continue to leverage their research and development capabilities to develop new technologies desired by our customers, our ability to deliver leading-edge products may be impaired and we could be required to incur additional research and development expenses. We depend on our compute server products for the majority of our revenues. If market acceptance of our compute server products does not continue, we may not be able to achieve growth. Sales of our compute server products accounted for 85% of our revenues during fiscal 2008, 92% of revenues in fiscal 2007 and 91% in fiscal 2006. If our compute server products fail to maintain market acceptance, or if we are unsuccessful in developing improved products or products to replace or supplement our current server product lines, we may not be able to achieve expected financial results. Further, because our customers are engaged in large-scale data center implementations, if customers believe that new generations of our products will become available in the near future, this perception may cause customers to delay or cancel existing orders, which would affect our ability to generate revenues in accordance with forecasted levels. 20 Table of Contents We rely on contract manufacturers to manufacture our products, and our failure to successfully manage our relationships with these contract manufacturers could impair our ability to deliver our systems in a manner consistent with required volumes or delivery schedules, which could damage our relationships with our customers and decrease our revenues. We rely on a very small number of contract manufacturers to assemble and test a majority of our products. None of these third-party contract manufacturers are obligated to perform services or supply products to us for any specific period, or in any specific quantities, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. Moreover, none of our contract manufacturers has provided contractual assurances to us that adequate capacity will be available to us to meet future demand for our products. If our contract manufacturers are not able to maintain our high standards of quality, are not able to increase capacity as needed, or are forced to shut down a factory, our ability to deliver quality products to our customers on a timely basis may decline, which would damage our relationships with customers, decrease our revenues and negatively impact our growth. Our customers require a high degree of reliability in our products and services, and if we cannot meet their expectations our relationships with our customers could be damaged and demand for our products and services will decline. Because our customers rely on our products and services for their enterprise or mission critical applications, any failure to provide high quality products and reliable services, whether caused by our own failure or failures by our suppliers or contract manufacturers, could damage our reputation and reduce demand for our products and services. Some of our products, such as our ICE cube line, are particularly complex and carry a higher per unit price. A failure of products in our ICE cube line would therefore potentially be more costly to us, with the risk and potential cost to us increasing proportionately with the number of products we sell from this line. In addition, delays in our ability to fill product orders as a result of quality control issues, such as an increase in failure rates or the rate of product returns, may negatively impact our relationships with our customers and harm our revenues and growth. Unstable market and economic conditions may have serious adverse consequences on our business. Our general business strategy may be adversely affected by the recent economic downturn and volatile business environment and continued unpredictable and unstable market conditions. If the current equity and credit markets deteriorate further, or do not improve, it may make any necessary debt or equity financing more difficult, more costly, and more dilutive. We believe we are well positioned with significant capital resources to meet our current working capital and capital expenditure requirements. However, a prolonged or profound economic downturn may result in adverse changes to demand for our products, or our customers’ ability to pay for our products, which would harm our operating results. There is also a risk that one or more of our current service providers, manufacturers and other partners may not survive these difficult economic times, which would directly affect our ability to attain our operating goals on schedule and on budget. Failure to secure any necessary financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and stock price and could require us to change our business plans. Uncertainty in the credit market may negatively affect the value of auction rate securities owned by us and our ability to liquidate these securities. Our investment portfolio as of January 3, 2009 includes various auction rate securities (“ARS”). ARS are variable-rate debt securities. While the underlying security has a long-term maturity, the interest rate is reset through Dutch auctions that are held at pre-determined intervals, usually every 28 days. In the past, liquidity for ARS was provided by this auction process that allowed investors to roll over their holdings or obtain immediate liquidity by selling the ARS at market. Recent uncertainty in the credit market has negatively affected these auctions and these auctions have not had sufficient bidders to allow investors to complete a sale of ARS. In February 2008, auctions related to the $9.1 million of ARS currently owned by us failed. These are the only ARS 21 Table of Contents investments in our portfolio as of January 3, 2009. Due to the uncertainty of liquidity, we have classified these investments of $8.7 million as long term and have included such investments in long term investments. We have recorded an unrealized loss of $0.4 million on such investments to other comprehensive income. In the future, failed auctions for our ARS may affect our ability to liquidate these ARS until a future auction is successful, a buyer is found outside of the auction process, the underlying securities have matured or the securities are recalled by the issuer. In addition, failed auctions may affect the fair value of our ARS and may result in an impairment charge. Maintaining and improving our financial controls and the requirements of being a public company may strain our resources and divert management’s attention. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and The NASDAQ Stock Market Rules. The requirements of these rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and may also place undue strain on our personnel, systems and resources. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. This can be difficult to do. As a result of this and similar activities, management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we are unable to continue to meet these requirements, we may not be able to remain listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. We have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, and this material weakness creates a reasonable possibility of material misstatements in our financial statements. Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. As a publicly traded company we must maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. This can be difficult to do. A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that: • pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; • provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and • provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the Company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. In connection with the preparation of our financial statements for the year ended January 3, 2009, we determined that we had a material weakness, and therefore determined that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective, and therefore created a reasonable possibility of material misstatements in our financial statements. This material weakness related to our accounting for inventory valuation as more fully explained in Part II “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and has not yet been remediated. 22 Table of Contents In order to improve and to maintain the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, significant resources and management oversight will be required. We began the process of remediating this material weakness when first identified in connection with the preparation of our financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2007, but this process takes time, and we will not be able to assert that we have remediated this material weakness until the procedures that we put in place have been working for a sufficient period of time for us to determine that they are effective. As a result of this and similar activities, management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to remediate this material weakness, or in a future report one or more additional material weaknesses, there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Even after corrective actions are implemented, the effectiveness of our controls and procedures may be limited by a variety of risks including: • faulty human judgment and simple errors, omissions or mistakes; • collusion of two or more people; • inappropriate management override of procedures; and • the risk that enhanced controls and procedures may still not be adequate to assure timely and reliable financial information A failure to have effective internal controls and procedures for financial reporting in place could result in a restatement of our financial statements, as it did in our Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 29, 2008, or impact our ability to accurately report financial information on a timely basis, which could adversely affect our stock price. Risk Related to Owning Our Stock Our stock price in the past has been volatile, and may continue to be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance, and investors may not be able to resell shares at or above the price at which they purchased the shares. Our stock has been publicly traded for a relatively short period of time, having first begun trading in June 2005. During that time our stock price has fluctuated significantly, from a low of approximately $3.61 per share to a high of approximately $56 per share. At times the stock price has changed very quickly. For example, most recently, our stock has dropped from a high of more than $10 per share at the end of September 2008 to a low of less than $4 per share towards the end of December 2008. If investors purchase shares of our common stock, they may not be able to resell those shares at or above the price at which they purchase them. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control including: • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market; • purchases of shares of our common stock pursuant to our share repurchase program; • the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in these projections or our failure to meet these projections; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other technology companies generally, or those that sell enterprise computing products in particular; • changes in financial estimates by any securities analysts who follow our company, our failure to meet these estimates or failure of those analysts to initiate or maintain coverage of our stock; 23 Table of Contents • ratings downgrades by any securities analysts who follow our company; • the public’s response to our press releases or other public announcements, including our filings with the SEC; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant technical innovations, customer wins or losses, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • introduction of technologies or product enhancements that reduce the need for our products; • market conditions or trends in our industry or the economy as a whole; • the loss of one or more key customers; • the loss of key personnel; • the development and sustainability of an active trading market for our common stock; • lawsuits threatened or filed against us; • future sales of our common stock by our officers, directors and significant stockholders; and • other events or factors, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to these events. In addition, the stock markets, and in particular the NASDAQ Stock Market, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many technology companies. Stock prices of many technology companies have fluctuated in a manner unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. In the past, stockholders have instituted securities class action litigation following periods of market volatility. If we were involved in securities litigation, it could have substantial costs and divert resources and the attention of management from our business. Due to these factors, sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. These sales, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock. In February 2009, we announced that our board of directors had authorized a stock repurchase program providing for the repurchase of up to $40 million of our common stock. The duration of the repurchase program is open ended. Under the program, we are able to purchase shares of common stock through open market transactions and privately negotiated purchases at prices deemed appropriate by management. The timing and amount of repurchase transactions under this program will depend on market conditions, corporate and regulatory considerations, alternative investment opportunities, and other relevant considerations. The program may be discontinued at any time by our board of directors. There can be no assurance that we will continue to buy any of our common stock under our share repurchase program or that any future repurchases will have a positive impact on our stock price. Important factors that could cause us to discontinue our share repurchases include, among others, unfavorable market conditions, the market price of our common stock, the nature of other investment opportunities presented to us from time to time, and the availability of funds necessary to continue purchasing common stock. Some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may deter third parties from acquiring us. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our board of directors, including the following: • limitations on persons authorized to call a special meeting of stockholders; • our stockholders may take action only at a meeting of stockholders and not by written consent; • our certificate of incorporation authorizes undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval; and 24 Table of Contents • advance notice procedures required for stockholders to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring matters before an annual meeting of stockholders. These anti-takeover defenses could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors of their choosing and cause us to take other corporate actions they desire. We do not expect to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate that we will pay any cash dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends in the foreseeable future should not purchase our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 