Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related To Our Business and Industry Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and will continue to fluctuate in the future, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past, and we believe that they will continue to fluctuate in the future, due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. For example, our revenues grew from $18.1 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2004 to $34.8 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2004, but declined to $33.9 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2004 and to 19 Table of Contents $23.0 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2004. Although our revenues have increased on a quarterly basis since the fourth quarter of 2004, we expect our revenues will fluctuate on a quarterly basis in future periods, and we have projected that revenues for the first quarter of 2006 will be lower than revenues in the fourth quarter of 2005. If in future periods our operating results do not meet the expectations of investors or analysts who choose to follow our company, our stock price may fall. Factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include the following: • fluctuations in the buying patterns and sizes of customer orders from one quarter to the next; • timing of delivery of our products; • addition of new customers or loss of existing customers; • our ability to enhance our products with new and better functionality; • costs associated with obtaining components to satisfy customer demand; • productivity and growth of our sales force; • new product announcements or introductions or changes in pricing by our competitors; • the portion of our revenues that result from the sale of server products and storage products; • technology and intellectual property issues associated with our products; and • general economic trends, including changes in information technology spending or geopolitical events such as war or incidents of terrorism. We are substantially dependent on a concentrated number of customers, specifically Internet companies, that purchase in large quantities. If we are unable to maintain or replace our relationships with customers and diversify our customer base, our revenues may fluctuate and our growth may be limited. Historically, a significant portion of our revenues has come from a limited number of customers. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to sustain our revenue levels from these customers because our revenues have largely been generated in connection with these customers’ decisions to deploy large-scale server and storage farms and their capacity requirements may become fulfilled. For example, our largest customer in fiscal 2002 accounted for 32% of our revenues, but this customer only accounted for 6% of our revenues in fiscal 2003 and none of our revenues in fiscal 2004. Similarly, our largest customer in fiscal 2004 accounted for 36% of our revenues, but only accounted for 1% of our revenues in fiscal 2003. In 2005, our three largest customers accounted for approximately 60% of our revenues, and, in the fourth quarter of 2005, our three largest customers accounted for approximately 72% of our revenues. Moreover, the proportion of our revenues derived from a limited number of customers may be even higher in any future quarter. If we cannot maintain or replace the customers that purchase large amounts of our products, or if they do not purchase products at the levels or at the times that we anticipate, our ability to maintain or grow our revenues will be adversely affected. In 2005, a substantial majority of our revenues was generated from companies that compete in the Internet services market, which percentage further increased during the second half of 2005. A significant part of our growth has been due to the fact that these companies are doing well and in many cases expanding, and, as a result, have been purchasing large quantities of products from us. If economic factors change for these Internet companies, as they have before, our ability to maintain or grow our revenues will be adversely affected. We face intense competition from the leading enterprise computing companies in the world as well as from emerging companies. If we are unable to compete effectively, we might not be able to achieve sufficient market penetration, revenue growth or profitability. The markets for compute server products and storage products are highly competitive. Our most significant competitors, Dell, Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company, International Business Machines Corporation and Sun 20 Table of Contents Microsystems, Inc. in the compute server market and EMC Corporation, Hewlett-Packard Company, Hitachi Data Systems, Ltd. and Network Appliance, Inc. in the storage market, represent some of the most established companies in the computer industry. These competitors have the following advantages over us: • substantially greater market presence and greater name recognition; • substantially greater financial, technical, research and development, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution and other resources; • longer operating histories; • a broader offering of products and services; • more established relationships with customers, suppliers and other technology companies; and • the ability to acquire technologies or consolidate with other companies in the industry to compete more effectively. Because these competitors have greater financial strength than we do and are able to offer a more diversified bundle of products and services, they may have the ability to severely undercut the pricing of our products, which would make us uncompetitive or force us to reduce our average selling prices, negatively impacting our margins. In addition, we have on occasion lost sales opportunities due to a competitor undercutting the pricing of our products or maintaining superior brand recognition. These competitors may be able to develop products that are superior to the commercially available components that we incorporate into our products, or may be able to offer products that provide significant price advantages over those we offer. For instance, a competitor could use its resources to develop proprietary motherboards with specifications and performance that are superior in comparison with the platforms that are currently available to the marketplace, which could give that competitor a distinct technological advantage. In addition, if our competitors’ products become more accepted than our products, our competitive position will be impaired. As the enterprise computing industry evolves, we expect to encounter additional competitors, including companies in adjacent technology businesses such as storage and networking infrastructure and management, companies providing technology that is complementary to ours in functionality, such as datacenter management software, contract manufacturers, and other emerging companies that may announce server product offerings. Moreover, our current and potential competitors, including companies with whom we currently have strategic alliances, may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with other third parties. If this occurs, new competitors or alliances may emerge that could negatively impact our competitive position. Our products incorporate open standard, commoditized components and materials that we obtain in spot markets, and, as a result, our cost structure and our ability to respond in a timely manner to customer demand are sensitive to volatility of the market prices for these components and materials. A significant portion of our operating expenses is directly related to the pricing of commoditized materials and components utilized in the manufacture of our products, such as memory, hard drives and central processing units, or CPUs. As part of our procurement model, we do not enter into long-term supply contracts for these materials and components, but instead purchase these materials and components in a competitive bid purchase order environment with suppliers or on the open market at spot prices. As a result, our cost structure is affected by price volatility in the marketplace for these components and materials, especially for dynamic random access memory, or DRAM. This volatility makes it difficult to predict expense levels and operating results and may cause them to fluctuate significantly. In addition, if we are successful in growing our business, we may not be able to continue to procure components solely on the spot market, which would require us to enter into contracts with component suppliers to obtain these components. This could increase our costs and decrease our gross margins. In addition, because our procurement model involves our ability to maintain a low inventory and to acquire materials and components as needed, and because we do not enter into long-term supply contracts for these 21 Table of Contents materials and components, we may be in a position in which our ability to effectively and efficiently respond to customer orders may be constrained by the then-current availability or the terms and pricing of these materials and components. Our industry has experienced component shortages and delivery delays in the past, and in the future we may experience shortages or delays of critical components as a result of strong demand in the industry or other factors. As one example, DRAM can represent a significant portion of our cost of revenues, and both the price and availability of various kinds of DRAM are subject to substantial volatility in the spot market. In the past, we have encountered situations where we were forced to pay higher prices than we anticipated for DRAM, and we have encountered situations where DRAM was in tight supply and we were unable to deliver customer orders on their anticipated delivery dates. As another example, the industry recently experienced a shortage of selected Intel chips, which caused some of our motherboard suppliers to reduce or suspend shipments of motherboards using these chips. This impacted our ability to ship selected configurations to some of our customers, and in some cases accelerated a transition to other platforms. If shortages or delays arise, the prices of these components may increase or the components may not be available at all. We may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build new products to meet customer demand, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. We intend to expand our operations and increase our expenditures in an effort to grow our business. If we are not able to manage this growth and expansion, or if our business does not grow as we expect, our operating results may suffer. We intend to continue to grow our business by entering new markets, developing new product and service offerings and pursuing new customers. In connection with this growth, we expect that our annual operating expenses will increase over the next several years as we expand our sales and marketing, research and development, manufacturing and production infrastructure, and our customer service and support efforts. Our failure to timely or efficiently expand operational and financial systems and to implement or maintain effective internal controls and procedures could result in additional operating inefficiencies that could increase our costs and expenses more than we had planned and might cause us to lose the ability to take advantage of market opportunities, enhance existing products, develop new products, satisfy customer requirements, respond to competitive pressures or otherwise execute our business plan. Additionally, if we do increase our operating expenses in anticipation of the growth of our business and this growth does not meet our expectations, our financial results will be negatively impacted. We rely primarily on our direct sales force to maintain and grow revenues, and may be unable to hire additional qualified sales personnel in a timely manner or retain our existing sales representatives. To date, we have relied primarily on our direct sales force to sell our products in the United States. Because we are looking to expand our customer base and grow our sales to existing customers, we will need to hire additional qualified sales personnel in the near term and beyond if we are to achieve revenue growth. The competition for qualified sales personnel in our industry, and particularly in Silicon Valley, is very intense. If we are unable to hire, train, deploy and manage qualified sales personnel in a timely manner, our ability to grow our business will be impaired. For example, in the past, it has taken us up to six months to hire a qualified sales executive and it may take a newly hired sales executive up to nine months after hiring to become productive, resulting in aggregate lag time between the commencement of the search to productivity in excess of one year. In addition, if we are unable to retain our existing sales personnel, our ability to maintain or grow our current level of revenues will be adversely affected. If we acquire or invest in other companies, assets or technologies and we are not able to integrate them with our business, or we do not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for any of these transactions, our financial performance may be impaired. If appropriate opportunities present themselves, we may consider acquiring or making investments in companies, assets or technologies that we believe are strategic. We do not have any experience in doing so, and if 22 Table of Contents we do succeed in acquiring or investing in a company, asset or technology, we will be exposed to a number of risks, including: • we may find that the acquired company, asset or technology does not further our business strategy, that we overpaid for the company, asset or technology or that the economic conditions underlying our acquisition decision have changed; • we may have difficulty integrating the assets, technologies, operations or personnel of an acquired company, or retaining the key personnel of the acquired company; • our ongoing business and management’s attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and the complexity of managing geographically or culturally diverse enterprises; • we may encounter difficulty entering and competing in new product or geographic markets or increased competition, including price competition or intellectual property litigation; and • we may experience significant problems or liabilities associated with product quality, technology and legal contingencies relating to the acquired business or technology, such as intellectual property or employment matters. In addition, from time to time we may enter into negotiations for acquisitions or investments that are not ultimately consummated. These negotiations could result in significant diversion of management time, as well as substantial out-of-pocket costs. If we were to proceed with one or more significant acquisitions or investments in which the consideration included cash, we could be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash, including proceeds from this offering. To the extent we issue shares of capital stock or other rights to purchase capital stock, including options and warrants, existing stockholders might be diluted and earnings per share might decrease. In addition, acquisitions and investments may result in the incurrence of debt, large one-time write-offs, such as acquired in-process research and development costs, and restructuring charges. We have begun to expand our sales into international markets and intend to further expand our sales into additional international markets, which may be more difficult than we expect, and if we are unable to do so successfully, our revenues and operating results may be adversely impacted. One component of our growth strategy is to expand into international markets, which includes our recent establishment of a subsidiary in Ireland. However, we have limited experience in selling our systems overseas, and we may encounter unexpected difficulties in doing so. If we are not able to successfully expand into international markets, our ability to grow our business will be adversely affected. Some of the factors that may impact our ability to initiate and maintain sales in foreign markets include: • our ability to establish international manufacturing, support and service, which could be costly and time consuming; • our ability to establish channel relationships with resellers in international markets; • adoption of new laws or changes to existing international laws; • our ability to service international installations; • currency fluctuations; and • political and economic instability. Our business depends on decisions by potential customers to adopt our modular, open standard-based products and to replace their legacy server systems with our products, and they may be reluctant to do so, which would limit our growth. Our business depends on companies moving away from large proprietary RISC/UNIX servers, to servers based on modular, open standard-based architecture, including servers that run on Linux and Microsoft Windows 23 Table of Contents operating systems and that utilize commercially available x86 processor architectures. If enterprises do not continue to adopt this open standard-based approach, the market for our products may not grow as we anticipate and our revenues would be adversely affected. Excluding sales to Microsoft Corporation, we believe that a majority of the server systems that we sold in 2004 and 2005 ran on the Linux operating system, and are subject to the GNU General Public License. Pending litigation involving the SCO Group’s claim against IBM that Linux is an unauthorized derivative work of the UNIX® operating system, if it results in a ruling that users of Linux must pay royalties to SCO or others, could impede broader Linux adoption and could materially harm our ability to sell our products based on the Linux operating system. In addition, the GNU General Public License is a subject of litigation, and it is possible that a court could hold these licenses to be unenforceable in that litigation or that a party could prove a claim for proprietary rights in the Linux operating system or other programs developed and distributed under these licenses. Any ruling by a court that these licenses are not enforceable, or that the Linux operating system or significant portions of it may not be copied, modified or distributed subject only to the minimal restrictions contained in these licenses, could also impede broader Linux adoption and limit our ability to sell our products based on the Linux operating system. Further, because potential customers have often invested significant capital and other resources in existing systems, many of which run mission-critical applications, customers may be hesitant to make dramatic changes to their datacenter systems. The failure of our customers and potential customers to replace their legacy server systems and adopt open standard-based modular technologies could have a material adverse impact on our ability to maintain or generate additional revenues. We are developing a channel strategy to generate additional sales and revenues, and the failure to implement this strategy successfully might impair our ability to sustain or grow revenues and may harm our business and operations. An increasing portion of our sales strategy is to develop our sales efforts through the use of resellers and other third parties to sell our systems. We may not be successful in building or expanding relationships with these third parties. Further, even if we do develop and expand these relationships, they may conflict with our direct sales efforts in some territories. Ineffective marketing of our products by our resellers or disruptions in our distribution channels could lead to decreased sales or slower than expected growth in revenues and might harm our business and operations. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects, and may increase the risk of an investor’s investment. Our company has only been in existence since October 1999, and much of our growth has occurred since December 2002. Our limited operating history may make it difficult to evaluate our current business and our future prospects. We have encountered and will continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly changing industries. If we do not address these risks successfully, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Our sales cycle requires us to expend a significant amount of resources, and could have an adverse effect on the amount, timing and predictability of future revenues. The sales cycle of our products, beginning from our first customer contact to closing of the sale, often ranges from three to six months. We may expend significant resources during the sales cycle and ultimately fail to close the sale. The success of our product sales process is subject to factors over which we have little or no control, including: • the timing of our customers’ budget cycles and approval processes; • our customers’ existing use of, or willingness to adopt, open standard server products, or to replace their existing servers or expand their processing capacity with our products; • the announcement or introduction of competing products; and • established relationships between our competitors and our potential customers. 24 Table of Contents We expend substantial time, effort and money educating our current and prospective customers as to the value of our products. Even if we are successful in persuading lower-level decision makers within our customers’ organizations of the benefits of our products, senior management might nonetheless elect not to buy our products after months of sales efforts by our employees or resellers. If we are unsuccessful in closing sales after expending significant resources, our revenues and operating expenses will be adversely affected. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property adequately, we may not be able to compete effectively. Our intellectual property is critical to our success and our ability to compete. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, our competitors might gain access to our technology. Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property. In September 2005, we filed a patent infringement action against one defendant in response to which the defendant counterclaimed that two of our patents are invalid and not infringed. In addition, we previously initiated two patent infringement actions against six defendants, seeking to enforce our intellectual property rights. We obtained consent judgments and permanent injunctions against five of the defendants, and reached a confidential settlement with the sixth. However, litigation is inherently uncertain, and there is no assurance that any litigation we initiate will have a successful outcome. Monitoring unauthorized use of our technology is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where we have two patent applications pending but do not have any issued patents, and the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as the laws of the United States. Any claims or litigation that we have initiated or that we may initiate in the future to protect our proprietary technology could be time consuming and expensive and divert the attention of our technical and management resources whether or not the claims or litigation are decided in our favor. We currently have seven patents issued in the United States and 17 utility patent applications pending. Patents may not be issued from these patent applications, and even if patents are issued, they may not benefit us or give us adequate protection from competing products. For example, issued patents might be circumvented or challenged, as is the case in the current patent infringement action, and could be declared invalid or unenforceable. Moreover, if other companies develop unpatented proprietary technology similar to ours or competing technologies, our competitive position will be weakened. If we are found to have violated the intellectual property rights of others, we could be required to indemnify our customers, resellers or suppliers, redesign our products, pay significant royalties and enter into license agreements with third parties. Our industry is characterized by a large number of patents, copyrights, trade secrets and trademarks and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violation of intellectual property rights. As we continue our business, expand our product lines and our product functionality, and expand into new jurisdictions around the world, third parties may assert that our technology or products violate their intellectual property rights. Although we have no knowledge of being in infringement, we cannot assure investors that we are not in infringement of third party patents. Any claim, regardless of its merits, could be expensive and time consuming to defend against, and would divert the attention of our technical and management resources. Successful intellectual property claims against us could result in significant financial liability or prevent us from operating our business or portions of our business. In addition, resolution of claims may require us to redesign our technology, to obtain licenses to use intellectual property belonging to third parties, which we may not be able to obtain on reasonable terms, to cease using the technology covered by those rights, and to indemnify our customers, resellers or suppliers. Any of these events could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our cash balance and short term investments may decrease significantly during a quarter and if we are unable to raise additional capital or improve our cash position from operating activities in such a quarter, our business may be harmed. Our cash balance may decrease significantly during a quarter. For example, as of September 30, 2005, we had an aggregate of $10.7 million available in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments compared with 25 Table of Contents an aggregate of $35.9 million as of June 30, 2005, primarily as a result of higher accounts receivable and inventory balances and the repayment of $1.5 million in promissory notes to our founders that were partially offset by an increase in accounts payable. Due to the significant increase in order volume at the end of the third quarter and beginning of the fourth quarter of 2005, we used more of our cash in operations which was not immediately offset by payments to us from our customers. Accounts receivable increased from $19.6 million at June 30, 2005 to $46.2 million at September 30, 2005 and inventories increased from $19.7 million at June 30, 2005 to $40.0 million at September 30, 2005. We raised an additional $46.2 million (net of issuance costs) of capital in our follow-on public offering in December 2005, which resulted in total cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $54.2 million as of December 31, 2005. However, if we fail to reduce the cash consumed by operations, or generate additional cash from our operations on a timely basis, we may not have the cash resources required to run our business, which may require us to seek additional sources of funds to meet our needs. The uncertainty related to such a circumstance could adversely affect our relationships with customers, vendors and partners. In particular, we could face substantial liquidity pressure if vendors or others with whom we do business were to change the payment terms under which we operate. If we lose the services of one or more members of our current executive management team or other key employees, or if we are unable to attract additional key employees, we may not be able to execute on our business strategy. Our future success depends in large part upon the continued service of our executive management team and other key employees. In particular, Thomas K. Barton, our president and chief executive officer, and Todd R. Ford, our executive vice president of operations and chief financial officer, are critical to the overall management of our company as well as to the development of our culture and our strategic direction. Giovanni Coglitore, our chief technology officer and one of our founders, plays a key role in our future technology and product development. All of our employees are “at will” and their employment can be terminated by us or them at any time. The loss of services of any of these executives or of one or more other members of our executive management or sales team or other key employees could seriously harm our business. Competition for qualified executives and other senior management personnel is intense, particularly in Silicon Valley, and if we are unable to attract and integrate additional key employees, including additions to our sales team, in a manner that enables us to scale our business and operations effectively, our ability to operate effectively and efficiently could be limited. If we fail to maintain or expand our relationships with our suppliers, we may not have adequate access to new or key technology necessary for our products, and, as a result, our ability to deliver leading-edge products may be impaired. In addition to the technologies we develop, our suppliers develop product innovations at our direction that are requested by our customers. In many cases, we retain the ownership of the intellectual property developed by these suppliers. In addition, we rely heavily on our component suppliers, such as AMD and Intel, to provide us with leading-edge components. If we are not able to maintain or expand our relationships with our suppliers or continue to leverage their research and development capabilities to develop new technologies desired by our customers, our ability to deliver leading-edge products may be impaired and we could be required to incur additional research and development expenses. We depend on our Foundation Series compute servers for substantially all of our revenues. If the market acceptance of our Foundation Series compute servers does not continue, or if we are unsuccessful in introducing our Scale Out Series compute servers, we may not be able to achieve or sustain our anticipated growth. We sold our first Foundation Series compute servers in February 2000. For fiscal 2004 and 2005, revenues for our Foundation Series product line accounted for approximately 93% and 83%, respectively, of our total revenues. We launched our Scale Out Series compute servers in August 2004 as an additional offering in our compute server segment. Revenues for our Scale Out Series product line accounted for approximately 7% of our 26 Table of Contents total revenues in fiscal 2005. While we expect this series to contribute to future revenues, we are not certain if this contribution will continue or grow. If our Scale Out Series compute servers fail to achieve market acceptance, or if we are unsuccessful in developing improved products or products to replace or supplement our current product line, we may not grow our business and revenues as we expect. In addition, while it is not our intention, there is the risk that sales of our Scale Out Series compute servers will, in some cases, replace sales of our Foundation Series compute servers, which would decrease the ability of our Scale Out Series compute servers to increase our revenues. Further, because our customers are engaged in large-scale data center implementations, if customers believe that new generations of our products will become available in the near future, this perception may cause customers to delay or cancel existing orders, which would affect our ability to generate revenues in accordance with forecasted levels. We rely on contract manufacturers to manufacture our products, and our failure to successfully manage our relationships with these contract manufacturers could impair our ability to deliver our systems in a manner consistent with required volumes or delivery schedules, which could damage our relationships with our customers and decrease our revenues. We rely on a small number of contract manufacturers to assemble and test a majority of our products. In 2004, we relied on Sanmina-SCI Corporation to manufacture a majority of our products. During 2005, Synnex manufactured a majority of our products. None of these third-party contract manufacturers are obligated to perform services or supply products to us for any specific period, or in any specific quantities, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. Moreover, none of our contract manufacturers has provided contractual assurances to us that adequate capacity will be available to us to meet future demand for our products. If our contract manufacturers are not able to maintain our high standards of quality, are not able to increase capacity as needed, or are forced to shut down a factory, our ability to deliver quality products to our customers on a timely basis may decline, which would damage our relationships with customers, decrease our revenues and negatively impact our growth. Our customers require a high degree of reliability in our products and services, and if we cannot meet their expectations our relationships with our customers could be damaged and demand for our products and services will decline. Because our customers rely on our products and services for their enterprise or mission critical applications, any failure to provide high quality products and reliable services, whether caused by our own failure or failures by our suppliers or contract manufacturers, could damage our reputation and reduce demand for our products and services. In addition, delays in our ability to fill product orders as a result of quality control issues, such as an increase in failure rates or the rate of product returns, may negatively impact our relationships with our customers and harm our revenues and growth. If we are not able to recover sales and use taxes from past sales to several of our customers, we may have to pay those taxes out of our funds and record an additional charge to our operating results. In December 2005, we identified potential state sales and use tax liabilities relating to certain of our product sales to customers outside of California. We estimate the tax liability to the states identified to be $1.2 million. We quantified the exposure relating to interest and estimated collection exposures and, accordingly, recorded a $426,000 charge to general and administrative expense in the year ended December 31, 2005. Although we believe that we have the right to recover the sales tax from these customers, and accordingly have recorded a receivable for $1.2 million (included in other current assets), if we are not able to recover these sales taxes from these customers, we will record an additional charge to our operating results and need to pay these taxes out of our funds. 27 Table of Contents Maintaining and improving our financial controls and the requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, divert management’s attention and affect our ability to attract and retain qualified board members. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and The NASDAQ Stock Market Rules, or Nasdaq rules. The requirements of these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and may also place undue strain on our personnel, systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. This can be difficult to do. For example, in connection with our audit for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2004, our independent registered public accounting firm noted a reportable condition with respect to the method of accounting that we applied to the embedded derivatives related to our mandatorily redeemable preferred stock, the preferred stock issued to two executives in exchange for promissory notes and certain stock options. As a result, audit adjusting entries were required for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2004. Due to the magnitude of the adjustments, this reportable condition was determined to be a material weakness. The accounting for equity and derivative instruments is complex, and the relevant accounting implications must be closely monitored, researched and evaluated. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight are required. As a result of this and similar activities, management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we are unable to continue to meet these requirements, we may not be able to remain listed on the Nasdaq National Market. In connection with these efforts, we intend to implement a new Enterprise Resource Planning system, or ERP system in 2006. If we are unable to implement the ERP system and Sarbanes-Oxley compliance-related activities in a timely and efficient manner, management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns and we may encounter difficulties in accurately reporting on our financial performance on a timely basis, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and Nasdaq rules, we are required to maintain an independent board. If we are unable to maintain adequate directors’ and officers’ insurance, our ability to recruit and retain qualified directors, especially those directors who may be deemed independent for purposes of Nasdaq rules, and officers will be significantly curtailed. Risks Related to Owning Our Stock Our stock price may be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance, and investors may not be able to resell shares at or above the price at which they purchased the shares. Our stock has been publicly traded for a short period of time. If investors purchase shares of our common stock, they may not be able to resell those shares at or above the price at which they purchased them. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market; • changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other technology companies generally, or those that sell enterprise computing products in particular; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; 28 Table of Contents • the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in these projections or our failure to meet these projections; • changes in financial estimates by any securities analysts who follow our company, our failure to meet these estimates or failure of those analysts to initiate or maintain coverage of our stock; • ratings downgrades by any securities analysts who follow our company; • the public’s response to our press releases or other public announcements, including our filings with the SEC; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant technical innovations, customer wins or losses, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • introduction of technologies or product enhancements that reduce the need for our products; • market conditions or trends in our industry or the economy as a whole; • the loss of one or more key customers; • the loss of key personnel; • the development and sustainability of an active trading market for our common stock; • lawsuits threatened or filed against us; • future sales of our common stock by our officers, directors and significant stockholders; and • other events or factors, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to these events. In addition, the stock markets, and in particular the Nasdaq National Market, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many technology companies. Stock prices of many technology companies have fluctuated in a manner unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. In the past, stockholders have instituted securities class action litigation following periods of market volatility. If we were involved in securities litigation, it could have substantial costs and divert resources and the attention of management from our business. A significant portion of our total outstanding common stock is restricted from immediate resale but may be sold into the market in the near future. If there are substantial sales of our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline. The price of our common stock could decline if there are substantial sales of our common stock by our existing stockholders and if a large number of shares of our common stock are available for sale. As of December 31, 2005, we had outstanding 23,040,449 shares of common stock. Of these shares, 7,201,354 shares, or 31.3% of our outstanding shares, are subject to market standoff agreements entered into by certain of our stockholders with us or 90-day lock-up agreements entered into by certain of our stockholders with the underwriters in our December 2005 offering and will not be able to be sold in the public market until March 2, 2006, the 91st day following that offering. In the event that we are successful in conducting another underwritten public offering, some of our outstanding shares held by some of our stockholders would be subject to market standoff agreements or lock-up agreements. The holders of an aggregate of 6,390,568 shares of common stock as of December 31, 2005, have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. We also have registered all shares of common stock that we have issued or may issue under our employee benefit plans. These shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to vesting restrictions, the market standoff agreements, and the lock-up agreements described above. 29 Table of Contents Due to these factors, sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. These sales, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock. Our existing principal stockholders, executive officers and directors have substantial control over our company, which may prevent stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions. Our executive officers, directors, and, to our knowledge, holders of more than 5% of our outstanding common stock beneficially own, as of December 31, 2005, in the aggregate, approximately 21.6% of our outstanding common stock, and our executive officers and directors beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 5.7% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if they so choose, are able to significantly influence all matters requiring stockholder approval. These matters include the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us. Our existing principal stockholders, executive officers and directors may have interests that differ from other stockholders and may vote in a way with which other stockholders disagree and which may be adverse to other stockholders’ interests. This concentration of ownership could also adversely affect the market price of our common stock or reduce any premium over market price that an acquirer might otherwise pay. Some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may deter third parties from acquiring us. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our board of directors, including the following: • limitations on persons authorized to call a special meeting of stockholders; • our stockholders may take action only at a meeting of stockholders and not by written consent; • our certificate of incorporation authorizes undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval; and • advance notice procedures required for stockholders to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring matters before an annual meeting of stockholders. These anti-takeover defenses could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors of their choosing and cause us to take other corporate actions they desire. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may delay, defer or prevent a change in control that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. We are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which, subject to some exceptions, prohibits “business combinations” between a Delaware corporation and an “interested stockholder,” which is generally defined as a stockholder who becomes a beneficial owner of 15% or more of a Delaware corporation’s voting stock for a three-year period following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder. Section 203 could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. We do not expect to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate that we will pay any cash dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future and our credit facility with Silicon Valley Bank prevents us from doing so. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends in the foreseeable future should not purchase our common stock. 30 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 