RISK FACTORS AN INVESTMENT IN OUR COMMON STOCK IS SPECULATIVE AND INVOLVES A HIGH DEGREE OF RISK. YOU SHOULD CAREFULLY CONSIDER THE RISKS DESCRIBED BELOW, TOGETHER WITH THE OTHER INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K, BEFORE BUYING OUR COMMON STOCK. THESE RISKS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND THE VALUE OF OUR COMMON STOCK. RISKS AFFECTING OUR BUSINESS IF WE ARE UNABLE TO RAISE CAPITAL BY JULY 31, 2009 IN ORDER TO REPAY OUR OUTSTANDING LOAN, WE WILL BE IN DEFAULT UNDER OUR LOAN AGREEMENT WITH OUR LENDER We have $2.5 million of debt outstanding under our loan agreement. The loan matures, plus interest, on July 31, 2009. As a result, we will need to raise additional capital in order to (i) repay our outstanding obligations under the loan of $2.5 million, plus interest, and (ii) continue our operations as described under the Risk Factor - " We will also need additional capital to market our products and to develop and commercialize new technologies and products and it uncertain whether such capital will be available." In the event we are unable to raise additional capital, we will not be able to meet our obligations under the loan and the lender will have the right to foreclose on the loan and, as a result, we may have to cease our operations. WE HAVE PLEDGED SUBSTANTIALLY ALL OF OUR ASSETS TO SECURE OUR BORROWINGS Our outstanding indebtedness under our loan agreement is secured by substantially all of our assets. If we default under the indebtedness secured by our assets, those assets would be available to the secured creditors to satisfy our obligations to the secured creditors. 42 WE EXPECT TO TAKE CERTAIN ACTIONS IN AN EFFORT TO REDUCE OUR OVERHEAD AND OUR OPERATING EXPENSES, BUT SUCH EFFORTS MAY REDUCE OUR ABILITY TO GENERATE REVENUES OR OPERATE OUR BUSINESS AND WE MAY NOT ACHIEVE THE RESULTS THAT WE MAY EXPECT AND MAY HAVE TO FURTHER CURTAIL OR CEASE OUR OPERATIONS. In connection with our efforts to preserve our capital, our board of directors has a approved a plan to reduce our work force and to reduce the salaries of our remaining employees and consultants. Effective August 31, 2009, we expect to terminate one employee and reduce certain employees to part-time status. As an additional effort to reduce costs, Alan Gallantar will leave as our Chief Financial Officer effective August 28, 2009 and at such time, Steven Gluckstern, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, will take on the additional role as our Chief Financial Officer. As part of the plan, we expect to also reduce the salaries and consulting fees of our remaining employees and consultants, including Mr. Gluckstern, Andre' DiMino, our Executive Vice President-Chief Technical Officer, and David Saloff, our Executive Vice President-Chief Business Development Officer. Although we have not finalized these arrangements, we expect to reduce all salaries and fees to no more than $100,000 per year per individual. We expect to provide such individuals with alternative compensation arrangements to be determined, provided that such arrangements are appropriate based on our financial condition. We expect these measures will reduce our operating expenses in the long term, however, we will incur severance and accrued vacation payments that we will be obligated to pay through September 1, 2009. In addition, such measures may reduce our ability to generate revenues and operate our business and we may not achieve the results that we may expect and may have to further curtail or cease operations. Following the finalizing of such arrangements, we will file a Current Report on Form 8-K to disclose the final terms of the plan and the arrangements with Messrs. Gluckstern, DiMino, Saloff and Gallantar. WE HAVE A LIMITED OPERATING HISTORY ON WHICH TO EVALUATE OUR POTENTIAL FOR FUTURE SUCCESS AND DETERMINE IF WE WILL BE ABLE TO EXECUTE OUR BUSINESS PLAN. THIS MAKES IT DIFFICULT TO EVALUATE OUR FUTURE PROSPECTS AND THE RISK OF SUCCESS OR FAILURE OF OUR BUSINESS. We were formed in 1989, but had very limited operations until 1998 when we acquired the assets utilized by EPI in connection with its medical device business and your evaluation of our business and prospects will be based partly on our limited operating history. While we have conducted development and sales and marketing activities, we have generated limited revenues to date. Consequently, our historical results of operations may not give you an accurate indication of our future results of operations or prospects. You must consider our business and prospects in light of the risks and difficulties we will encounter as an early-stage company in a new and rapidly evolving market. These risks include: o our ability to effectively and efficiently market and distribute our products through our sales force and third-party distributors; o the ability of ADM or other manufacturers utilized by us to effectively and efficiently manufacture our products; o our ability to obtain market acceptance of our current products and future products that may be developed by us; o our ability to sell our products at competitive prices which exceed our per unit costs; and o our ability to obtain regulatory approval or clearance of our products. We may not be able to address these risks and difficulties, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues, operating results and our ability to continue to operate our business. 43 WE HAVE A HISTORY OF SIGNIFICANT AND CONTINUED OPERATING LOSSES AND A SUBSTANTIAL ACCUMULATED EARNINGS DEFICIT AND WE MAY CONTINUE TO INCUR SIGNIFICANT LOSSES. We have generated only limited revenues from product sales and have incurred net losses of approximately $7.3 and $7.5 million for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. At March 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $38.5 million. We expect to incur additional operating losses, as well as negative cash flow from operations, for the foreseeable future, as we continue to expand our marketing efforts with respect to our products and to continue our research and development of additional applications for our products as well as new products utilizing our tPEMF technology and other technologies that we may develop in the future. Our ability to increase our revenues from sales of our current products and other products developed by us will depend on: o increased market acceptance and sales of our current products; o commercialization and market acceptance of new technologies and products under development; and o medical community awareness. WE WILL NEED ADDITIONAL CAPITAL TO MARKET OUR PRODUCTS AND TO DEVELOP AND COMMERCIALIZE NEW TECHNOLOGIES AND PRODUCTS AND IT IS UNCERTAIN WHETHER SUCH CAPITAL WILL BE AVAILABLE. Our business is capital intensive and, assuming we are able to obtain sufficient capital to repay our outstanding loan of $2.5 million, we will also require additional financing in order to: o fund research and development; o expand sales and marketing activities; o develop new or enhanced technologies or products; o maintain and establish regulatory compliance; o respond to competitive pressures; and o acquire complementary technologies or take advantage of unanticipated opportunities. Our need for additional capital will depend on: o the costs and progress of our research and development efforts; o the preparation of pre-market application submissions to the FDA for our existing and new products and technologies and costs associated therewith; 44 o the number and types of product development programs undertaken; o the number of products we have manufactured for sale or rental; o the costs and timing of expansion of sales and marketing activities; o the amount of revenues from sales of our existing and potentially new products; o the cost of obtaining and maintaining, enforcing and defending patents and other intellectual property rights; o competing technological and market developments; and o developments related to regulatory and third-party coverage matters. Assuming we are able to obtain sufficient financing to repay our outstanding loan of $2.5 million by July 31, 2009, we expect that our available funds, together with funds from operations, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated needs through August 31, 2009, and we will need to obtain additional capital to continue to operate and grow our business. Our cash requirements may vary materially from those currently anticipated due to changes in our operations, including our marketing and distribution activities, product development, research and development, regulatory requirements, and expansion of our personnel and the timing of our receipt of revenues, including royalty payments. Our ability to obtain additional financing in the future will depend in part upon the prevailing capital market conditions, as well as our business performance. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to arrange additional financing on terms satisfactory to us or at all. If additional financing is raised by the issuance of common stock you may suffer additional dilution and if additional financing is raised through debt financing, it may involve significant restrictive covenants which could affect our ability to operate our business. If adequate funds are not available, or are not available on acceptable terms, we may not be able to continue our operations, grow our business or take advantage of opportunities or otherwise respond to competitive pressures and remain in business. In addition, we may incur significant costs in connection with any potential financing, whether or not we are successful in raising additional capital. WE ARE CURRENTLY DEPENDENT ON OUR PRODUCTS WHICH UTILIZE OUR tPEMF TECHNOLOGY, AND AN INCREASE IN OUR REVENUES WILL DEPEND ON OUR ABILITY TO INCREASE MARKET PENETRATION, AS WELL AS OUR ABILITY TO DEVELOP AND COMMERCIALIZE NEW PRODUCTS AND TECHNOLOGIES. Products based on non-invasive, electrotherapeutic technologies represent known methods of treatment that we believe have been under-utilized clinically. Physicians and other healthcare professionals may not use products and technologies developed by us unless they determine that the clinical benefits to the patient are greater than those available from competing products or therapies or represent equal efficacy with lower cost. Even if the advantage of our products and technologies is established as clinically and fiscally significant, physicians and other healthcare professionals may not elect to use such products and technologies. The rate of adoption and acceptance of our products and technologies may also be affected adversely by unexpected side effects or complications associated with our products, consumers' reluctance to invest in new products and technologies, the level of third-party reimbursement and widespread acceptance of other products and technologies. Consequently, physicians and other healthcare professionals, healthcare payors and consumers may not accept products or technologies developed by us. Broad market acceptance of our current products and other products and technologies developed by us in the future may require the education and training of numerous physicians and other healthcare professionals, as well as conducting or sponsoring clinical and fiscal studies to demonstrate the cost efficiency and other benefits of such products and technologies. The amount of time required to complete such training and studies could be costly and result in a delay or dampening of such market acceptance. Moreover, healthcare payors' approval of use for our products and technologies in development may be an important factor in establishing market acceptance. We may be required to undertake time-consuming and costly development activities and seek regulatory clearance or approval for existing and new products or technologies. Although the FDA has cleared certain of our products for the treatment of edema and pain in soft tissue, we are required to make additional filings with FDA relating to our currently marketed products during August, 2009 and we may not be able to obtain regulatory clearance or approval of new or existing products or technologies or new treatments through existing products or maintain clearance of our existing products. In addition, we have not demonstrated 45 an ability to market and sell our products, much less multiple products simultaneously. If we are unable to increase market acceptance of our current products or develop and commercialize new products in the future, we will not be able to increase our revenues. The completion of the development of any new products or technologies or new uses of existing products will remain subject to all the risks associated with the commercialization of new products based on innovative technologies, including: o our ability to fund and establish research that supports the efficacy of new technologies and products; o our ability to obtain regulatory approval or clearance of such technologies and products, if needed; o our ability to obtain market acceptance of such new technologies and products; o our ability to effectively and efficiently market and distribute such new products; o the ability of ADM or other manufacturers utilized by us to effectively and efficiently manufacture such new products; and o our ability to sell such new products at competitive prices that exceed our per unit costs for such products. IF OUR CUSTOMERS ARE UNABLE TO RECEIVE REIMBURSEMENT FROM THIRD-PARTIES, INCLUDING REIMBURSEMENT FROM MEDICARE, OUR GROWTH AND REVENUES WILL BE MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY AFFECTED IN MARKETS WHERE OUR CUSTOMERS RELY ON INSURANCE COVERAGE FOR PAYMENT. Some healthcare providers such as hospitals and physicians that purchase, lease or rent medical devices in the United States generally rely on third-party payors, principally Medicare and private health insurance plans, including health maintenance organizations, to reimburse all or part of the cost of the treatment for which the medical device is being used. Commercialization of our products and technologies in the United States will depend in part upon the availability of reimbursement for the cost of the treatment from third-party healthcare payors such as Medicare and private health insurance plans, including health maintenance organizations, in non-capitated markets, where we rely on insurance coverage for payment. Such third-party payors are increasingly challenging the cost of medical products and services, which have and could continue to have a significant effect on the ratification of such technologies and services by many healthcare providers. Several proposals have been made by federal and state government officials that may lead to healthcare reforms, including a government directed national healthcare system and healthcare cost-containment measures. The effect of changes in the healthcare system or method of reimbursement for our current products and any other products or technologies that we may market in the United States cannot be determined. While commercial insurance companies make their own decisions regarding which medical procedures, technologies and services to cover, commercial payors often apply standards similar to those used adopted by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or CMS, in determining Medicare coverage. The Medicare statute prohibits payment for any medical procedures, 46 technologies or services that are not reasonable and necessary for the diagnosis or treatment of illness or injury. In 1997, CMS, which is responsible for administering the Medicare program, had interpreted this provision to deny Medicare coverage of procedures that, among other things, are not deemed safe and effective treatments for the conditions for which they are being used, or which are still investigational. However, in July 2004, CMS reinstated Medicare reimbursement for the use of the technology used in our products in the treatment of non-healing wounds under certain conditions. CMS has established a variety of conditions for Medicare coverage of the technology used in our products. These conditions depend, in part, on the setting in which the service is provided. For example, in 2004, CMS added electromagnetic therapy as a type of service payable in the home health setting, but subject to Medicare's consolidated home health billing provisions. Thus, Medicare will not pay separately for electromagnetic therapy services if the service is billed under a home health plan of care provided by a home health agency. Rather, the home health agency must pay for the electromagnetic therapy as part of the consolidated payment made to the home health agency for the entire range of home health services under the patient's care plan. In December 2005, we retained a consulting company specializing in CMS reimbursement and coverage matters to assist us in arranging and preparing for a meeting with CMS to request that CMS cover electromagnetic therapy for wound treatment separately in the home health setting. In May 2006, with the assistance of this consulting company, we held a meeting with CMS and made a presentation in support of reimbursement for the home health use of the technology used in our products. In February 2008 we received a letter from CMS in response to an informal review we requested in order to obtain reimbursement for our devices from CMS. During 2009 we retained, Epstein, Becker & Green and other consultants specializing in this area to assist us with discussions with CMS. Even if CMS were to approve separate reimbursement of electromagnetic therapy in the home health setting, the regulatory environment could change and CMS might deny all coverage for electromagnetic therapy as treatment of chronic wounds, whether for home health use or otherwise, which could limit the amount of coverage patients or providers are entitled to receive. Either of these events would materially and adversely affect our revenues and operating results. Medicare does not cover the cost of the device used for the electromagnetic treatment of wounds. We cannot predict when, if ever, CMS will allow for reimbursement for the use of the technology in our products in the home, or what additional legislation or regulations, if any, may be enacted or adopted in the future relating to our business or the healthcare industry, including third-party coverage and reimbursement, or what effect any such legislation or regulations may have on us. Furthermore, significant uncertainty exists as to the coverage status of newly approved healthcare products, and there can be no assurance that adequate third-party coverage will be available with respect to any of our future products or new applications for our present products. In currently non-capitated markets, failure by physicians, hospitals, nursing homes and other users of our products to obtain sufficient reimbursement for treatments using our technologies would materially and adversely affect our revenues and operating results. Alternatively, as the U.S. medical system moves to more fixed-cost models, such as payment based on diagnosis related groups, prospective payment systems or expanded forms of capitation, the market landscape may be altered, and the amount we can charge for our products may be limited and cause our revenues and operating results to be materially and adversely affected. 47 WE OUTSOURCE THE MANUFACTURING OF OUR PRODUCTS TO ADM, OUR LARGEST SHAREHOLDER AND EXCLUSIVE MANUFACTURER, AND IF THE OPERATIONS OF ADM ARE INTERRUPTED OR IF OUR ORDERS EXCEED THE MANUFACTURING CAPABILITIES OF ADM, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO DELIVER OUR PRODUCTS TO CUSTOMERS ON TIME. Pursuant to a manufacturing agreement between us and ADM, our largest shareholder, ADM is the exclusive manufacturer of our products, and we may rely on ADM to manufacture other products that we may develop in the future. ADM operates a single facility and has limited capacity that may be inadequate if our customers place orders for unexpectedly large quantities of our products, or if ADM's other customers place large orders of products, which could limit ADM's ability to produce our products. In addition, if the operations of ADM were halted or restricted, even temporarily, or they are unable to fulfill large orders, we could experience business interruption, increased costs, damage to our reputation and loss of our customers. Moreover, under our agreement, ADM may terminate the agreement under certain circumstances. Although we have the right to utilize other manufacturers if ADM is unable to perform under our agreement, manufacturers of our products need to be licensed with the FDA, and identifying and qualifying a new manufacturer to replace ADM as the manufacturer of our products could take several months during which time, we would likely lose customers and our revenues could be materially delayed and/or reduced. BECAUSE OF OUR RELATIONSHIP WITH ADM, WE MAY BECOME SUBJECT TO CONFLICTS OF INTERESTS THAT MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO OPERATE OUR BUSINESS. Our Executive Vice President, Vice Chairman of the Board and Chief Technical Officer, Andre' DiMino, serves as the President and Chief Executive Officer of ADM; and our Executive Vice President and Chief Business Development Officer and Director, David Saloff, serves as a director of ADM. This could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when members of our senior management are faced with decisions that could have different implications for us and for ADM. For example, conflicts of interest could arise between us and ADM in various areas such as fundraising, competing for new business opportunities, and other areas. In addition, ADM serves as the exclusive manufacturer of our products and we utilize personnel at ADM to provide administrative and other services to us. No assurance can be given as to how potentially conflicted board members will evaluate their fiduciary duties to us and ADM, respectively, or how such individuals will act under such circumstances. Furthermore, the appearance of conflicts, even if such conflicts do not materialize, might adversely affect the public's perception of us. OUR ABILITY TO EXECUTE OUR BUSINESS PLAN DEPENDS ON THE SCOPE OF OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS AND NOT INFRINGING THE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS OF OTHERS. THE VALIDITY, ENFORCEABILITY AND COMMERCIAL VALUE OF THESE RIGHTS ARE HIGHLY UNCERTAIN. 48 Our ability to compete effectively with other companies is materially dependent upon the proprietary nature of our technologies. We rely primarily on patents and trade secrets to protect our technologies. We have: o one patent on our device, which expires in 2019, as well as one other patent for certain embodiments of tPEMF, expiring in 2013, a petition pending for one issued patent and eight issued international patents; o sixteen U.S. non-provisional patent applications pending and one hundred and two international pending patents; . Third parties may seek to challenge, invalidate, circumvent or render unenforceable any patents or proprietary rights owned by us based on, among other things: o subsequently discovered prior art; o lack of entitlement to the priority of an earlier, related application; or o failure to comply with the written description, best mode, enablement or other applicable requirements. In general, the patent position of medical device companies, is highly uncertain, still evolving and involves complex legal, scientific and factual questions. We are at risk that: o other patents may be granted with respect to the patent applications filed by us; and o any patents issued to us may not provide commercial benefit to us or will be infringed, invalidated or circumvented by others. The United States Patent and Trademark Office currently has a significant backlog of patent applications, and the approval or rejection of patents may take several years. Prior to actual issuance, the contents of United States patent applications are generally published 18 months after filing. Once issued, such a patent would constitute prior art from its filing date, which might predate the date of a patent application on which we rely. Conceivably, the issuance of such a prior art patent, or the discovery of "prior art" of which we are currently unaware, could invalidate a patent of ours or prevent commercialization of a product claimed thereby. Although we generally conduct a cursory review of issued patents prior to engaging in research or development activities, we may be required to obtain a license from others to commercialize any of our new products under development. If patents that cover our existing or new products are issued to other companies, there can be no assurance that any necessary license could be obtained on favorable terms or at all. 49 There can be no assurance that we will not be required to resort to litigation to protect our patented technologies and other proprietary rights or that we will not be the subject of additional patent litigation to defend our existing and proposed products and processes against claims of patent infringement or any other intellectual property claims. Such litigation could result in substantial costs, diversion of management's attention, and diversion of our resources. We also have applied for patent protection in several foreign countries. Because of the differences in patent laws and laws concerning proprietary rights between the United States and foreign countries, the extent of protection provided by patents and proprietary rights granted to us by the United States may differ from the protection provided by patents and proprietary rights granted to us by foreign countries. We attempt to protect our trade secrets, including the processes, concepts, ideas and documentation associated with our technologies, through the use of confidentiality agreements and non-competition agreements with our current employees and with other parties to whom we have divulged such trade secrets. If our employees or other parties breach our confidentiality agreements and non-competition agreements or if these agreements are not sufficient to protect our technology or are found to be unenforceable, our competitors could acquire and use information that we consider to be our trade secrets and we may not be able to compete effectively. Most of our competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, technical and manufacturing resources than we have and we may not be profitable if our competitors are also able to take advantage of our trade secrets. We may decide for business reasons to retain certain knowledge that we consider proprietary as confidential and elect to protect such information as a trade secret, as business confidential information or as know-how. In that event, we must rely upon trade secrets, know-how, confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements and continuing technological innovation to maintain our competitive position. There can be no assurance that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or otherwise gain access to or disclose such information. THE LOSS OF ANY OF OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OR KEY PERSONNEL OR CONSULTANTS MAY MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATIONS AND OUR ABILITY TO EXECUTE OUR GROWTH STRATEGY. Our ability to execute our business plan depends upon the continued services of Steven Gluckstern, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer and Andre' DiMino, our Vice Chairman of the Board, Executive Vice President and Chief Technical Officer and David Saloff, our Executive Vice President and Chief Business Development Officer, as well as our key technology, marketing, sales, support and consulting personnel, including Dr. Arthur Pilla, one of our consultants, our Science Director. Although we have entered into employment or consulting agreements containing non-compete agreements with Messrs. Gluckstern, DiMino and Saloff and certain of our key personnel, including Dr. Pilla, we may not be able to retain these individuals or enforce such non-compete agreements under applicable law. Further, our employment agreement with Mr. DiMino requires him to devote at least a majority of his work-time toward Ivivi; 50 however, the remaining amount of his work-time may be devoted elsewhere, including at ADM. As a result, Mr. DiMino's attention to our business and operations may be diverted by his obligations elsewhere, including at ADM, and we may not be able to have access to Mr. DiMino as needed by us. If we lost the services of these executive officers or our key personnel, our business may be materially and adversely affected and our stock price may decline. In addition, our ability to execute our business plan is dependent on our ability to attract and retain additional highly skilled personnel. We do not have key person life insurance for any of our executive officers or key employees. WE DEPEND ON A LIMITED NUMBER OF SUPPLIERS FOR OUR COMPONENTS AND RAW MATERIALS AND ANY INTERRUPTION IN THE AVAILABILITY OF THESE COMPONENTS AND RAW MATERIALS USED IN OUR PRODUCT COULD REDUCE OUR REVENUES AND MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for the components and raw materials used in our products. Although there are many suppliers for each of our component parts and raw materials, we are dependent on a single or limited number of suppliers for many of the significant components and raw materials. This reliance involves a number of significant risks, including: o unavailability of materials and interruptions in delivery of components and raw materials from our suppliers; o manufacturing delays caused by such unavailability or interruptions in delivery; and o fluctuations in the quality and the price of components and raw materials. We do not have any long-term or exclusive purchase commitments with any of our suppliers. Our failure to maintain existing relationships with our suppliers or to establish new relationships in the future could also negatively affect our ability to obtain our components and raw materials used in our products in a timely manner. If we are unable to obtain ample supply of product from our existing suppliers or alternative sources of supply, we may be unable to satisfy our customers' orders which could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our relationships with our customers and materially and adversely affect our operating results. WE HAVE HAD DIFFICULTIES WITH OUR FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING CONTROLS IN THE PAST. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO ESTABLISH APPROPRIATE INTERNAL FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES, IT COULD CAUSE US TO FAIL TO MEET OUR REPORTING OBLIGATIONS, RESULT IN THE RESTATEMENT OF OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS, SUBJECT US TO REGULATORY SCRUTINY AND SANCTION, CAUSE INVESTORS TO LOSE CONFIDENCE IN OUR REPORTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION AND HAVE A NEGATIVE EFFECT ON THE MARKET PRICE FOR SHARES OF OUR COMMON STOCK. 51 Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. We maintain a system of internal control over financial reporting, which is defined as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by our board of directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. As noted below, we have had difficulties with our financial controls in the past. As a public company, we have significant requirements for enhanced financial reporting and internal controls. See discussion under "Item 8A. Controls and Procedures" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We are required to document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. As of March 31, 2010 we will be required to include in our annual report on Form 10-K a report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing these assessments. The process of designing and implementing effective internal controls is a continuous effort that requires us to anticipate and react to changes in our business and the economic and regulatory environments and to expend significant resources to maintain a system of internal controls that is adequate to satisfy our reporting obligations as a public company. On or about March 28, 2006, Stonefield Josephson, Inc., our former independent auditors, advised us in writing and discussed with us orally its views regarding certain areas requiring improvement in our internal control over financial reporting. The areas requiring improvement were generally: (i) lack of staff with technical accounting expertise to independently apply our accounting policies in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, (ii) improper cut off procedures and (iii) lack of adequate back-up and documentation procedures with respect to our inventory prior to March 31, 2005 and with respect to stock options previously granted by us. Our management has determined that, due to the reasons described above, we had not consistently followed established internal control over financial reporting procedures related to the analysis, documentation and review of selection of the appropriate accounting treatment for certain transactions. Although we have assigned the highest priority to the improvement in our internal control over financial reporting and have taken, and will continue to take, action in furtherance of such improvement, we cannot assure you that the above-mentioned areas will be fully remedied, if ever. Moreover, we cannot assure you that we will not, in the future, identify further areas requiring improvement in our internal control over financial reporting. We cannot assure you that the measures we have taken or will take to remediate any areas in need of improvement or that we will implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future as we continue our rapid growth. If we are unable to establish appropriate internal financial reporting controls and procedures, it could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, result in the restatement of our financial statements, harm our operating results, subject us to regulatory scrutiny and sanction, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the market price for shares of our common stock. See "Item 8A. Controls and Procedures" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. WE HAVE RESTATED OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IN THE PAST TO REFLECT VARIOUS CORRECTIONS. NO ASSURANCES CAN BE GIVEN THAT SIMILAR RESTATEMENTS WILL NOT BE REQUIRED IN THE FUTURE. We restated our financial statements in the past to reflect various corrections of certain errors. The impact of the restatement of such financial statements is included in our financial statements as of and for the year ended March 31, 2006. In addition, we and our former auditors identified certain errors requiring correction to our statement of operations for the year ended March 31, 2005. While we believe we have put processes in place to begin to remedy areas in our internal controls, no assurances can be given that we will not be faced with situations which may require us to restate our financial statements again. Any such restatements could adversely affect the credibility of our reported financial results and the price of our common stock. 52 RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY THE MEDICAL PRODUCTS MARKET IS HIGHLY COMPETITIVE AND SUSCEPTIBLE TO RAPID CHANGE AND SUCH CHANGES COULD RENDER OUR EXISTING PRODUCTS AND ANY NEW PRODUCTS DEVELOPED BY US UNECONOMICAL OR OBSOLETE. The medical products market is characterized by extensive research and development activities and significant technological change. Our ability to execute our business strategy depends in part upon our ability to develop and commercialize efficient and effective products based on our technologies. We compete against established companies as well as numerous independently owned small businesses, including Diapulse Corporation of America, Inc., which manufactures and markets devices that are substantially equivalent to some of our products; Regenesis Biomedical, which manufactures and markets devices that are similar to our first generation device; BioElectronics Corporation, which develops and markets the ActiPatch(TM), a medical dermal patch that delivers tPEMF therapy to soft tissue injuries; and KCI Concepts, Inc., which manufactures and markets negative pressure wound therapy devices in the wound care market. We also face competition from companies that have developed other forms of treatment, such as hyperbaric oxygen chambers, thermal therapies and hydrotherapy. In addition, companies are developing or may, in the future, engage in the development of products and/or technologies competitive with our products. We expect that technological developments will occur and that competition is likely to intensify as new technologies are employed. Many of our competitors are capable of developing products based on similar technology, have developed and are capable of continuing to develop products based on other technologies, which are or may be competitive with our products and technologies. Many of these companies are well-established, and have substantially greater financial and other resources, research and development capabilities and more experience in obtaining regulatory approvals, manufacturing and marketing than we do. Our ability to execute our business strategy and commercially exploit our technology must be considered in light of the problems, expenses, difficulties, complications and delays frequently encountered in connection with the development of new medical processes, devices and products and their level of acceptance by the medical community. Our competitors may succeed in developing competing products and technologies that are more effective than our products and technologies, or that receive government approvals more quickly than our new products and technologies, which may render our existing and new products or technology uncompetitive, uneconomical or obsolete. WE MAY BE EXPOSED TO PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS FOR WHICH OUR PRODUCT LIABILITY INSURANCE MAY BE INADEQUATE. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks, which are inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of medical devices. While we are not aware of any side-effects resulting from the use of our products, there may be unknown long-term effects that may result in product liability claims in the future. Although we maintain $2 million of product liability insurance, we cannot provide any assurance that: o our insurance will provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities if a product causes harm or fails to perform as promised; o adequate product liability insurance will continue to be available in the future; or o our insurance can be maintained on acceptable terms. The obligation to pay any product liability claim in excess of whatever insurance we are able to obtain would increase our expenses and could greatly reduce our assets. IF THE FDA OR OTHER STATE OR FOREIGN AGENCIES IMPOSE REGULATIONS THAT AFFECT OUR PRODUCTS, OUR DEVELOPMENT, MANUFACTURING AND MARKETING COSTS WILL BE INCREASED. 53 The development, testing, production and marketing of our current products is, and other products developed by us may be, subject to regulation by the FDA as devices under the 1976 Medical Device Amendments to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. Although the FDA has cleared our SofPulse product for the adjunctive use in the palliative treatment of post-operative pain and edema in superficial tissue, use of our current products and any new products developed by us will be subject to FDA regulation as well. Before a new medical device, or a new use of, or claim for, an existing product can be marketed in the United States, it must first receive either 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval from the FDA, unless an exemption applies. Either process can be expensive and lengthy. The FDA's 510(k) clearance process usually takes from three to twelve months, but it can take longer and is unpredictable. The process of obtaining pre-market approval is much more costly and uncertain than the 510(k) clearance process and it generally takes from one to three years, or even longer, from the time the application is filed with the FDA. In the United States, medical devices must be: o manufactured in establishments subject to FDA inspection to assess compliance with the FDA Quality Systems Regulation, or QSR; and o produced in accordance with the QSR for medical devices. As a result, we, as well as ADM, the exclusive manufacturer of our products, are required to comply with QSR requirements and if we fail to comply with these requirements, we will need to find another company to manufacture our products which could delay the shipment of our product to our customers. In addition, ADM's manufacturing facility: o is required to be registered as a medical device manufacturing site with the FDA; and o is subject to inspection by the FDA. The FDA requires producers of medical devices to obtain FDA clearance and, in some cases, approval prior to commercialization in the United States. Testing, preparation of necessary applications and the processing of those applications by the FDA is expensive and time consuming. We do not know if the FDA will act favorably or quickly in making such reviews, and significant difficulties or costs may be encountered by us in our efforts to obtain FDA clearance and approval. The FDA may also place conditions on clearance and approvals that could restrict commercial applications of such products. Product approvals may be withdrawn if compliance with regulatory standards is not maintained or if problems occur following initial marketing. Delays imposed by the FDA clearance and approval process may materially reduce the period during which we have the exclusive right to commercialize patented products. We also are subject to Medical Device Reporting regulations, which require us to report to the FDA if our products cause or contribute to a death or serious injury, or malfunction in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. We are not aware of any death or serious injury caused by or contributed to by our products, however, we cannot assure you that any such problems will not occur in the future with our existing or future products. 54 Additionally, our existing and future products may be subject to regulation by similar agencies in states and foreign countries. While we believe that we have complied with all applicable laws and regulations, continued compliance with such laws or regulations, including any new laws or regulations in connection with our products or any new products developed by us, might impose additional costs on us or marketing impediments on our products which could adversely affect our revenues and increase our expenses. The FDA and state authorities have broad enforcement powers. Our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in enforcement action by the FDA or state agencies, which may include any of the following sanctions: o warning letters, fines, injunctions and civil penalties; o repair, replacement, refunds, recall or seizure of our products; o operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production; o refusing our requests for 510(k) clearance or premarket approval of new products, new intended uses, or modifications to existing products; o withdrawing 510(k) clearance or premarket approvals that have already been granted; and o criminal prosecution. If any of these events were to occur, it could harm our business and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. THE FDA CAN IMPOSE CIVIL AND CRIMINAL ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS AND OTHER PENALTIES ON US IF WE OR OUR MANUFACTURER FAILS TO COMPLY WITH FDA REGULATIONS WHICH ARE OFTEN DIFFICULT TO COMPLY WITH. Medical device manufacturing facilities must maintain records, which are available for FDA inspectors documenting that the appropriate manufacturing procedures were followed. The FDA has authority to conduct inspections of our facility, as well as the facility of our manufacturer. Labeling and promotional activities are also subject to scrutiny by the FDA and, in certain instances, by the Federal Trade Commission. If the FDA were to determine that the indication for use of our products has a more narrow meaning than that which we have historically deemed it to be, our ability to continue to market and sell our products could be materially adversely affected. Any failure by us or the manufacturer of our products to take satisfactory corrective action in response to an adverse inspection or to comply with applicable FDA regulations could result in enforcement action against us or our manufacturer, including a public warning letter, a shutdown of manufacturing operations, a recall of our products, civil or criminal penalties or other sanctions. From time to time, the FDA may modify such requirements, imposing additional or different requirements which may require us to alter our business methods which could result in increased expenses and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, if the Federal Trade Commission were to commence an investigation concerning any of our claims about our products and conclude that our claims were false, misleading or deceptive in violation 55 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, we could become subject to significant financial consequences and compliance measures, including, the repayment of some or all of our gross profits from such products and the compliance with various reporting requirements imposed by the Federal Trade Commission. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK THE TRADING PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK IS HIGHLY VOLATILE, AND YOU MAY NOT BE ABLE TO RESELL YOUR SHARES AT OR ABOVE THE PRICE AT WHICH YOU PURCHASED YOUR SHARES, OR AT ALL. The trading price of our common stock is highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include: o quarterly variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors; o announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, new products, significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments; o disruption to our operations or those of ADM, our exclusive manufacturer, or our suppliers; o commencement of, or our involvement in, litigation; o any major change in our board or management; o changes in governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory approvals; and o general market conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our own operating performance. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for medical device technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources. ON THE OTCBB, YOU MAY NOT BE ABLE TO RESELL YOUR SHARES AT OR ABOVE THE PRICE AT WHICH YOU PURCHASED YOUR SHARES, OR AT ALL. 56 Our common stock is quoted on the NASD's over-the-counter bulletin board following its delisting from the NASDAQ Capital Market in June 2009. Trading volume of OTC Bulletin Board stocks have been historically lower and more volatile then stocks traded on an exchange or the NASDAQ Stock Market. Quoting of our stock on the OTCBB could have an adverse effect on the market price of, and the efficiency of the trading market for, our common stock, not only in terms of the number of shares that can be bought and sold at a given price, but also through delays in the timing of transactions and less coverage of us by securities analysts, if any. Also, if in the future we were to determine that we need to seek additional equity capital, it could have an adverse effect on our ability to raise capital in the public or private equity markets. PENNY STOCK REGULATIONS IMPOSE CERTAIN RESTRICTIONS ON MARKETABILITY OF OUR SECURITIES. Our common stock is subject to "penny stock" regulations. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted regulations which generally define a "penny stock" to be any equity security that is not trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market or an exchange that has a market price (as defined) of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. As a result, our common stock is to these regulations and our common stock is subject to rules that impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell such securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally those with assets in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000, or $300,000 together with their spouse). For transactions covered by these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchase of such securities and have received the purchaser's written consent to the transaction prior to the purchase. Additionally, for any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require the delivery, prior to the transaction, of a risk disclosure document mandated by the Securities and Exchange Commission relating to the penny stock market. The broker-dealer must also disclose the commission payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and, if the broker-dealer is the sole market maker, the broker-dealer must disclose this fact and the broker-dealer's presumed control over the market. Finally, monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. Consequently, the "penny stock" rules may restrict the ability of broker-dealers to sell our common stock and may affect the ability of investors to sell our common stock in the secondary market and the price at which such purchasers can sell any such securities. WE HAVE NOT PAID DIVIDENDS IN THE PAST AND DO NOT EXPECT TO PAY DIVIDENDS IN THE FUTURE, AND ANY RETURN ON INVESTMENT MAY BE LIMITED TO THE VALUE OF YOUR STOCK. We have never paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future and any return on investment may be limited to the value of your stock. We plan to retain any future earnings to finance growth. 57 EXECUTIVE OFFICERS, DIRECTORS AND ENTITIES AFFILIATED WITH THEM HAVE SUBSTANTIAL CONTROL OVER US, WHICH COULD DELAY OR PREVENT A CHANGE IN OUR CORPORATE CONTROL FAVORED BY OUR OTHER SHAREHOLDERS. As of June 30, 2009, our directors, executive officers and ADM, together with their affiliates, beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 38% of our outstanding common stock, assuming the exercise of all outstanding options and warrants held by such persons that are exercisable within 60 days of this report. In particular, ADM, of which Andre' DiMino, our Vice Chairman of the Board and Executive Vice President, is President and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owns approximately 29% of our outstanding shares of common stock, and Mr. DiMino, together with members of the DiMino family, beneficially own approximately 36% of the outstanding shares of ADM. Under the terms of a voting agreement among Mr. DiMino, David Saloff, our Executive Vice President, Edward Hammel, our Senior Vice President, Sean Hagberg, Ph.D., our Senior Vice President, Arthur Pilla, PhD., one of our consultants, our Science Director and the Chairman of our Scientific Advisory Board, Berish Strauch, M.D., one of our consultants and a member of our Medical Advisory Board, and Fifth Avenue Capital Partners, one of our shareholders, Mr. DiMino shall have the right to vote up to 1,310,126 additional shares of our common stock (including shares underlying options held by such shareholders that are exercisable within 60 days of the date of this report), representing approximately 11% of shares of our common stock outstanding as of June 30, 2009. These figures do not reflect the increased percentages that the officers and directors may have in the future in the event that they exercise any additional options granted to them under the 2004 Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan or if they otherwise acquire additional shares of common stock. The interests of our current officer and director shareholders and our largest shareholder may differ from the interests of other shareholders. As a result, the current officer and director shareholders and ADM do and will continue to have the ability to exercise substantial control over all corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, irrespective of how our other shareholders may vote, including the following actions: o the election of directors; o adoption of stock option plans; o the amendment of charter documents; or o the approval of certain mergers and other significant corporate transactions, including a sale of substantially all of our assets. FUTURE SALES OF OUR COMMON STOCK, INCLUDING SALES OF OUR COMMON STOCK ACQUIRED UPON THE EXERCISE OF OUTSTANDING OPTIONS OR WARRANTS, MAY CAUSE THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK TO DECLINE. We had 11,241,033 shares of common stock outstanding as of June 30, 2009. In addition, as of June 30, 2009, options to purchase 3,645,656 shares of our common stock were issued and outstanding, of which 2,765,364 were vested. All remaining options will vest over various periods ranging up to 58 a five-year period measured from the date of grant. As of June 30, 2009, the weighted-average exercise price of the vested stock options is $2.66 which is higher than the June 30, 2009 market price of our common stock of $0.19. As of June 30, 2009, warrants to purchase 2,864,581 shares of common stock were issued and outstanding. We also may issue additional shares of stock in connection with our business, including in connection with acquisitions, and may grant additional stock options to our employees, officers, directors and consultants under our stock option plans or warrants to third parties. If a significant portion of these shares were sold in the public market, the market value of our common stock could be adversely affected. WE HAVE IMPLEMENTED ANTI-TAKEOVER PROVISIONS WHICH COULD DISCOURAGE OR PREVENT A TAKEOVER, EVEN IF SUCH TAKEOVER WOULD BE BENEFICIAL TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws include provisions which could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders. These provisions will include: o authorizing the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares or change the balance of voting control and resist a takeover attempt; o limiting the ability of shareholders to call special meetings of shareholders; o requiring all shareholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our shareholders or by the unanimous written consent of our shareholders; and o establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon by shareholders at shareholder meetings. In addition, provisions of the New Jersey Business Corporation Act, including the New Jersey Shareholder Protection Act, and the terms of the employment agreements with our executive officers may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our control. DUE TO PROVISIONS OF OUR CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION AND BY-LAWS, A SHAREHOLDER MAY BE PREVENTED FROM CALLING A SPECIAL MEETING FOR SHAREHOLDER CONSIDERATION OF A PROPOSAL OVER THE OPPOSITION OF OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND SHAREHOLDER CONSIDERATION OF A PROPOSAL MAY BE DELAYED UNTIL OUR NEXT ANNUAL MEETING. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our by-laws provide that any action required or permitted to be taken by our shareholders must be effected at an annual or special meeting of shareholders or by the unanimous written consent of our shareholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that, subject to certain exceptions, only our board of directors, the chairman or vice chairman of our board of directors, a chief executive officer or our president or, at the direction of any of them, any vice president or secretary may call special meetings of our shareholders. Our by-laws also contain advance notice requirements for proposing matters that can be acted 59 on by the shareholders at a shareholder meeting. Accordingly, a shareholder may be prevented from calling a special meeting for shareholder consideration of a proposal over the opposition of our board of directors and shareholder consideration of a proposal may be delayed until the next annual meeting. As such, any time-sensitive proposals that a shareholder may have may not be considered in a timely manner. CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. Forward-looking statements include statements with respect to our beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, expectations, anticipations, assumptions, estimates, intentions, and future performance, and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may be beyond our control, and which may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be forward-looking statements. You can identify these forward-looking statements through our use of words such as "may," "will," "can," "anticipate," "assume," "should," "indicate," "would," "believe," "contemplate," "expect," "seek," "estimate," "continue," "plan," "point to," "project," "predict," "could," "intend," "target," "potential," and other similar words and expressions of the future. All forward-looking statements are expressly qualified in their entirety by this cautionary notice. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have no obligation, and expressly disclaim any obligation, to update, revise or correct any of the forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. We have expressed our expectations, beliefs and projections in good faith and we believe they have a reasonable basis. However, we cannot assure you that our expectations, beliefs or projections will result or be achieved or accomplished. 