D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business The mobile communications industry in which we operate is characterized by rapid changes and innovations, which makes evaluating our business and prospects difficult. If we cannot successfully respond by changing our business mix, business model and products and services we sell, our business and financial results will be materially and adversely affected. Our business model and business mix have gradually evolved since we commenced operations in July 2002 and they may continue to change. We completed our first mobile handset design project in September 2003 to capture the increasing demand for mobile design services arising from the increasing complexity of mobile handsets and the inability of mobile phone chipset providers to provide integrated handset technology. In 2006, because of the launch of highly integrated chipsets by MediaTek, we started to design and manufacture handsets and smart phones through Electronics Manufacturing Service (“EMS”) providers for sales to mobile handset brand owners and electronic products wholesale distributors in 2006, which represents our original designed product (“ODP”) business. With the acquisition of the Citylead in 2010, we began to design our QIGI branded mobile phones and Tecface branded mobile phones, leveraging the design capabilities and EMS suppliers from our ODP business. To diversify our streams of revenues, we started to develop our game business in 2008. The amount and percentage of revenues we derived from each of businesses have fluctuated over the past years. We incurred a net loss attributable to our company of US$3.3 million and US$2.5 million in 2012 and 2013, respectively, as compared to a net income of US$27.1 million in 2011. As we compete in a fast pace industry, we have to change our business strategies and continually keep up with industry trends and changes, including hardware and software innovations. 3 Table of Contents As a result of the foregoing, our historical results of operations may not provide a meaningful basis for evaluating our business, financial performance and prospects in the future. We may not have sufficient experience to address the risks frequently encountered by early stage companies, including our potential inability to: • change our business model or product mix in time, or at all, to keep up with new industry standards, capture market trends and generate stable and growing revenues; • achieve and maintain our profitability and margins; • acquire and retain customers; • attract, train and retain qualified personnel; and • maintain adequate control over our costs and expenses. If we are unsuccessful in addressing any of the above risks, our business may be materially and adversely affected. If we cannot foresee and keep up with industry standards and design or offer new mobile handset models for sale in a timely and cost-efficient manner to meet customer demand, we may not be able to attract and retain our customers, and our business and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. The mobile handset market is characterized by rapidly changing end user preferences and demand for new and advanced functions and applications on mobile handsets, rapid product obsolescence, price erosion, intense competition, evolving industry standards such as the shift to smart phones based on the Android operating system, and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. As the market for third-generation and fourth-generation, or 3G and 4G, mobile handsets continues to develop, our existing and potential customers may increasingly demand more 3G and 4G mobile handsets. If we cannot design new mobile handset models for sale in a timely and cost-efficient manner to meet our customers’ demand, our business will be materially and adversely affected. We might not be able to innovate, develop and launch our mobile products and location-based services or other services in time, or at all. In addition, we may fail to timely ramp up our new product deliveries due to a variety of factors, including failure to anticipate consumer trends and needs, insufficient or ineffective internal and external execution of our research and product development process, and inability to timely secure sufficient quantities of necessary components or software from suppliers or third parties. We cannot assure you that there will be sufficient customer demand for our current and newly developed phones in the future. Further, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully meet our customers’ demand with respect to cost, quality and time to completion. Our failure to meet customer demand and expectations could hurt our reputation and affect our business and cost us existing customers and negatively affect our results of operations. In 2011 and 2012, we experienced a delay in our adoption of the Android-based smart phone operating system and shifting our smart phone focus from Microsoft Windows-based to Android-based. This delay led to the reduction of orders from our customers and adversely affected our revenues, and may have hurt our customer relationship and reputation. In 2013, we faced tough competition, which caused decline in our revenue. See “Item 5 Operating and Financial Review and Prospects” of this annual report. There is no assurance that we can regain our ability in generating revenues back to previous levels. We provide certain primary types of products to our customers, including feature phones, smart phones, wireless modules and data cards, other components such as printed circuit board assemblies as well as wireless software and applications. The market demand for each of our product types is subject to constantly changing customer demand and end user preferences. For example, the addressable market for feature phones may further reduce in size if the higher-end price points become dominated by more affordable smart phones, such as Android-based smart phones. In some regions, especially in Europe and China, overall market demand for feature phones may decline further, which may materially and adversely affect our business. 4 Table of Contents If we do not succeed in our expansions into new businesses, our future results of operations and growth prospects may be materially and adversely affected. We enter into new businesses from time to time to generate additional revenue streams. Expansions into new businesses may present operating and marketing challenges that are different from those that we currently encounter. For each new business into which we enter, we face competition from existing leading players with abundant experience in that business. If we cannot successfully address the new challenges and compete effectively against the existing leading players and gain experience in each new business, we may be unable to develop a sufficiently large customer and user base, recover the costs incurred for developing and marketing new businesses, and eventually achieve profitability from these businesses, and our future results of operations and growth prospects may be materially and adversely affected. We face risks and uncertainties regarding our game business. Our game business is relatively new and faces rapidly evolving industry landscape and concepts. As a result, its performance is subject to a high degree of uncertainty. The game business is intensively competitive and driven in large part by the ability to deliver popular “hit” products. If we fail to deliver popular “hit” products to the market or if customers prefer our competitor’s products or services over those we provide, our operating results will suffer. Our operating results with respect to games will continue to depend on numerous factors beyond our control, including the growth in mobile handset use, personal computer use, internet use, broadband users, mobile and online games penetration in China and other markets and the rate of any such growth, general economic conditions affecting consumer disposable income, the availability and rising popularity of other forms of entertainment, and changes in consumer demographics and public tastes and preferences. Our ability to plan for product development, distribution and promotional activities will be significantly affected by our ability to anticipate and adapt to relatively rapid changes in consumer tastes and preferences. There is no assurance that we would able to track and respond to these changes in consumer preferences in a timely and effective manner. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant capital expenditure in connection with the construction of buildings and facilities, which may not prove to be a valuable investment and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects. As part of our business expansion strategy, we commenced the construction of buildings and facilities in major cities in China with the primary purpose of developing our own smart phone manufacturing capacity and strengthening our research and development capabilities in handset design and gaming development. We finished the construction of our first two buildings in Hangzhou in 2010, and the third building in 2013. Currently, we are waiting to receive premises permits necessary for occupation of the three completed buildings in Hangzhou. We also commenced similar construction projects in Beijing and Shenyang in 2012 and 2013. In 2011, 2012 and 2013, in connection with our construction projects, we incurred a total capital expenditure of US$20.4 million, US$15.1 million and US$10.5 million, respectively. We expect to incur an additional total capital expenditure of US$190.3 million from 2014 to 2016. We also own an office building in Beijing, which we rented out in 2011, 2012 and 2013, generating other operating income amounting to US$0.7 million, US$1.0 million and US$1.1 million, respectively. See “Item 4—Information on the Company—D. Plant, Machinery and Equipment” for details of our construction projects. While we currently expect to use our completed facilities as originally intended, we may lease unused portions of our properties to third parties to generate additional revenues. Our construction in progress projects present significant development risks. The construction projects are time-consuming and complex, and require significant capital investment and divert our management’s attention and efforts from our existing core businesses. Our ability to develop and construct the necessary buildings and facilities may be impaired by various factors, such as the inability to obtain equity or debt financing on satisfactory terms or at all, delays in obtaining various necessary regulatory approvals, licenses or permits, and shortages or increases in the cost of equipment, materials or labor. We also lack experienced employees in the development and management of such projects and the completed properties. Any of those factors may cause delays in completion of our construction projects and may increase the cost of contemplated projects. If we are unable to complete the projects as planned, the costs and capital investments incurred in connection with such projects may not be recoverable. Even if we complete these projects, as a result of project delays, cost overruns, changes in market circumstances or other reasons, we may not be able to achieve the intended economic benefits or demonstrate the commercial viability of these projects, which may materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects. 5 Table of Contents Our business is sensitive to global economic conditions. A severe or prolonged downturn in the global or Chinese economy could materially and adversely affect our business and our financial condition. Our business and operations are primarily based in China and the majority of our revenues are derived from our operations in China. We also derive an increasing percentage of revenues from our various customers in overseas markets, including European Union and Russia, which in total constituted 2.3%, 6.6% and 9.3% of our total revenues in 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. Our financial results have been, and are expected to continue to be, affected by economic conditions in the global markets and in China as well as by changes in the relevant industries in China, such as economic growth rate, labor costs, international trade disputes and territorial disputes. The global financial markets experienced significant disruptions in 2008 and the United States, Europe and other economies went into recession. The recovery from the lows of 2008 and 2009 was uneven and it is facing new challenges, including the escalation of the European sovereign debt crisis since 2011 and the slowdown of the Chinese economy in 2012. It is unclear whether the European sovereign debt crisis will be contained, what effects it may have, and whether the Chinese economy will resume its previous high growth rate. There is considerable uncertainty over the long-term effects of the expansionary monetary and fiscal policies that have been adopted by the central banks and financial authorities of some of the world’s leading economies, including China’s. There have been concerns over unrest in the Syria and South Sudan, which have resulted in volatility in oil and other markets, and over the possibility of a war involving Ukraine and Russia. There have also been concerns about the economic effect of the earthquake, tsunami and nuclear crisis in Japan and tensions in the relationship between China and Japan. Economic conditions in China are sensitive to global economic conditions. Any persistent slow-down in the global or Chinese economy or the recurrence of any financial disruptions may materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition in a number of ways. For example, the weakness in the economy could erode consumer confidence which, in turn, could result in changes to consumer spending patterns for our products and services. If consumer demand for the products and services we offer decreases, our revenues may decline. Furthermore, the financial turmoil affecting the financial markets and banking system starting from 2008 may significantly restrict our ability to obtain financing in the capital markets or from financial institutions on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If our customers fail to achieve success in their business, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. If any of our major customers is unsuccessful in its mobile handset sales, whether due to lack of market acceptance of its products, shortage of component supplies, slowdown of replacement sales of mobile handsets or otherwise, the customer may downsize or discontinue its mobile handset business, which in turn could adversely affect our ODP business and brand name phone sales. Accordingly, our success depends on our customers’ success in their business. Our largest customer in 2011, 2012 and 2013 contributed approximately 14.9%, 8.9% and 10.6% of our net revenues, respectively, and our largest three customers in 2011, 2012 and 2013 contributed approximately 37.6%, 20.0% and 23.2% of our net revenues, respectively. We are not certain whether our customers will be able to achieve success in their business or how long they will remain competitive in their business even if they are initially successful. If any of our customers experiences financial difficulty or is otherwise unable to achieve success in its own business, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We are exposed to inventory risks and the credit risk in relation to our customers. As our product sales constitute the majority of our revenues, we are correspondingly exposed to inventory risks. Although we arrange with our EMS providers for product manufacturing according to the sales orders we receive, we nevertheless need to order some raw material and components in advance of assigning them to the EMS providers and to build inventory in advance of customers’ orders to balance the longer lead time for components and shorter delivery time requested by our customers. Because demand for our products is affected by a number of factors, including competition and general economic conditions, there is a risk that we may forecast customer demand incorrectly and order from third parties in excess or insufficient inventories of particular products. 6 Table of Contents In addition, credit risk in relation to our customers may arise from events or circumstances beyond our control. For instance, an economic downturn may cause our customers to default under their ODP product contracts with us and expose us to the risk that our customers may refuse to buy from us the number of mobile handsets specified in their purchase orders or may not be able to pay us timely or at all in accordance with the sales contracts. Even if we may sometimes be able to retain as penalties the partial prepayments or deposits received from such defaulting customers, this might not be sufficient to offset the resulting loss of profits and the increased cost of unsold inventory. If our customers default in paying us, we would have to make provisions for doubtful debts or incur bad debt write-offs and our business would be materially and adversely affected. We are dependent on our suppliers and EMS providers for timely manufacturing and delivery of our products that meet quality and standards set by us or our customers. We rely on our suppliers for procuring the raw materials and components required for the manufacturing of the mobile handsets that we sell to our customers. As we do not have our own manufacturing facilities, we rely on EMS providers for the assembling and manufacturing of these products. If these suppliers or EMS providers fail to deliver their goods or services to us in a timely manner and fail to meet our quality standard, our ability to deliver the finished products to our customers on a timely basis will be affected. If we fail to maintain our relationships with existing suppliers or EMS providers or fail to find new suppliers or EMS providers on competitive terms, any failure to obtain sufficient manufacturing capacity could significantly delay our ability to ship our products and damage our customer relationships, resulting in a material and adverse impact on our business operations and financial results. A supplier may fail to meet our requirements, such as, most notably, the product quality, safety, security and other standards set by us or our customers. Consequently, some of our products may be unacceptable to us and our customers, or may fail to meet our quality control standards. In case of issues affecting a product’s safety or regulatory compliance, we may be subjected to damages due to product liability, or defective products, components or services may need to be replaced or recalled. The mobile handset market in China is highly competitive, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against our competitors. The mobile handset market in China is intensely competitive and highly fragmented. We face current and potential competition from established suppliers of wireless communications solutions to mobile device manufacturers. These competitors include original design manufacturers such as Sim Technology Group Limited, BYD Electronic Limited, Longcheer Holdings Limited and other smaller mobile phones original design manufacturers. We are also facing greater competition from the existing popular branded mobile phone companies, such as Apple, Samsung, ZTE, Huawei, Xiaomi and others. Compared with these competitors, our own branded mobile phones may lack market awareness, cost advantages, and good distribution channels. This may in turn result in lower demand levels and fewer shipments for our branded mobile phones in the future. Our business model and profitability relies to a significant extent on outsourcing the manufacturing process to EMS providers, hence lowering the operating costs and reducing capital investments and other fixed costs. Our competitors that apply the same business model do not own the necessary manufacturing facilities, similar to our company. Such a business model results in low barriers of entry, and accordingly may lead to an increasing number of new players into this market. QUALCOMM Incorporated, or QUALCOMM, has also lowered the entry barrier for many smaller handset companies through the introduction of chipsets for the production of 3.5G mobile phones. In addition, Google Android mobile operating system is widely adopted with less differentiation among different operating systems, greatly increasing the level of competition in this area. MediaTek has also launched chipsets which greatly increased the level of competition for the Android smart phones market. These chipsets further lowered the entry barrier for companies that are interested in developing smart phones based on the Android operating system and eventually increased the level of competition within the mobile phone industry. The introduction of Google Android represents both opportunities and threats for us. We have shifted our focus from Windows Mobile operating system to Google Android platform. The Android operating system is being commonly adopted by most of our competitors and with less differentiation within each of their operating systems, presenting bigger challenges and tougher competition for us in this area. More co-operation with third parties software providers are also required to make our products compatible with Android operating system, which may in turn increase our research and development expenditure in this area. The availability and success of Google’s Android platform has made entry and expansion in the smart phone market easier for a number of hardware manufacturers which have chosen to join Android’s ecosystem, especially at the mid- to low- range of the smart phone market. This has increased our competition and is likely to reduce our gross margin in the mid-range smart phones. 7 Table of Contents If we fail to compete effectively in the mobile handset market in China and globally, we may be unable to maintain or increase our revenues and market share. Our strategy to acquire or invest in complementary businesses and assets to establish strategic alliances involves significant risk and uncertainties that may prevent us from achieving our objectives and harm our financial condition and results of operations. As part of our plan to expand our product and service offerings, we have made and intend to continue making strategic acquisitions or investments in complementary businesses in China. Our strategic acquisitions and investments could subject us to uncertainties and risks, including: • high acquisition and financing costs; • potential ongoing financial obligations and unforeseen or hidden liabilities; • failure to achieve our intended objectives, benefits or revenue-enhancing opportunities; • cost of, and difficulties in, integrating acquired businesses and managing a larger business; • potential claims or litigation regarding our board’s exercise of its duty of care and other duties required under applicable law in connection with any of our significant acquisitions or investments approved by the board; and • diversion of our resources and management attention. Our failure to address these uncertainties and risks may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may establish strategic alliances with various third parties to further our business purpose from time to time. Strategic alliances with third parties could subject us to a number of risks, including risks associated with sharing proprietary information, non-performance by counter-parties, and an increase in expenses incurred in establishing new strategic alliances, any of which may materially and adversely affect our business. Our business depends substantially on the continued use of certain intellectual property rights, and any termination of or infringement upon such rights may harm our business and competitive position. Our business depends substantially on the use of certain intellectual property rights. For example, we are dependent on QUALCOMM for CDMA- and MediaTek for WCDMA-related technology we use in designing, manufacturing and selling CDMA- and WCDMA-based mobile handsets. Suspension or termination of our CDMA and WCDMA license agreement by QUALCOMM or MediaTek could adversely affect our business and prospects, because we may not be able to obtain alternative licenses in a timely manner to meet our customers’ demands. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secret laws and copyrights, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods to protect our intellectual property rights. Implementation of PRC intellectual property-related laws has historically been lacking, primarily because of ambiguities in the PRC laws and difficulties in enforcement. Accordingly, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology is difficult and expensive, and the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may be inadequate to prevent the misappropriation of our proprietary technology. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technologies could enable third parties to benefit from our technologies without paying us, which could harm our business and competitive position. In 2012, we filed suit against Samsung Telecommunications (Tianjin) Ltd. for patent infringement in China in relation to Samsung’s GT-B7732 model mobile phone. We intend to continue to litigate the lawsuit but the process is very time consuming. We intend to pursue all possible remedies in this dispute in defense of our intellectual property rights. This litigation and any other future instances of patent infringement might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. See “— Risks Related to Doing Business in China — Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us.” 8 Table of Contents We may face intellectual property infringement and other claims that could be time-consuming and costly to defend and result in our loss of significant rights. Other parties may assert intellectual property infringement and other claims against us. For example, there is no assurance that online games, software applications or other content posted on our websites do not or will not be deemed to infringe upon patents, valid copyrights or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. Litigation is expensive and time-consuming and could divert management’s attention from our business. If there is a successful claim of infringement, we may be required to pay substantial damages to the party claiming infringement, develop alternate non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or license agreements that may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Our failure to develop non-infringing technologies or license the proprietary rights on a timely basis would harm our business. Parties asserting infringement claims may be able to obtain an injunction, which could prevent us from providing our services or using technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property. While currently we do not have any on-going infringement claims against us, we had in the past been, and may in the future be, subject to claims by other parties alleging infringements of their intellectual property rights by our products. To resolve such claims, we may be required to pay licensing fees to third parties, which could adversely affect our financial condition. Any such claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Our business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our senior executives, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success depends heavily upon the continued services of our senior executives, especially our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Defu Dong. We rely on the experience of our senior executives in mobile handset design and our manufacturing, business operations and selling and marketing and also depend on their relationships with our customers. We do not maintain key-man life insurance for any of our key executives. If one or more of our key executives are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them easily or at all. Therefore, our business may be severely disrupted, and we may incur additional expenses to recruit and retain new officers. Several executives of our company, including Mr. Defu Dong, have been involved in litigation, arbitration and administrative proceedings in the past. Although we are not aware of any pending claims against our executives as of the date of this annual report, any future litigation or administrative proceedings involving any of our key executives may result in diversion of management attention away from our business, or damage to our reputation. In addition, if any of our executives joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose our customers. If any disputes arise between our executive officers and us, we cannot assure you the extent to which our rights could be enforced in China, where these executive officers reside and hold most of their assets, in light of the uncertainties with PRC legal system. See “— Risks Related to Doing Business in China — Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us.” If we are unable to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, particularly technical personnel with technological expertise in major areas of mobile handset design, development and production that integrate many different functions and features in common or differentiated hardware and software architectures. Since our industry is characterized by high demand and intense competition for talent, there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain qualified technical staff or other highly-skilled employees that we will need to achieve our strategic objectives. Our ability to train and integrate new employees into our operations may not meet the changing demands of our business. If we are unable to attract, train, and retain qualified personnel, our business may be materially and adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents We may incur losses due to business interruptions resulting from the occurrence of adverse public events such as outbreak of epidemics, acts of terrorism, fires and natural catastrophes such as earthquakes. Any prolonged occurrence of an epidemic, including influenza A, such as H7N9, avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) or other adverse public health developments in China may lead to, among other events, quarantines or closures of our offices which could severely disrupt our operations or the sickness or death of our key officers and employees, and a general slowdown in the Chinese economy. Any of the foregoing events or other unforeseen consequences of public health problems could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, acts of terrorism, fires or natural disasters such as earthquakes that affect where our principal offices are located or other locations where we have substantial business operations, may lead to significant loss of revenue by disrupting our business operations and may also materially and adversely affect our business. For example, the 9.0 magnitude earthquake that took place in Japan in March 2011 disrupted the supply of various components, which affected our production schedule for several products. The unstable situation and ongoing conflict in the Middle East, Turkey and Thailand has also affected our business in several ways, such as the reduction of orders from customers and the increase of shipment costs to and from these regions. Also, territorial disputes between China and Japan may also affect our business by reducing orders from Japan and in other ways. Failure to maintain effective internal controls and other factors could have a material and adverse effect on the trading price of our ADSs. Certain factors, including a failure to maintain effective internal control or any restatement of our financial statements, could cause the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, has adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the effectiveness of such companies’ internal control over financial reporting in each of their annual reports. This requirement applies to this annual report on Form 20-F. In addition, as a non-accelerated filer, we have chosen to voluntarily comply with the provisions of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act that require independent auditor attestation. Our independent registered public accounting firm has attested to and reported on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2013. See “Item 15. Controls and Procedures.” However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain effective internal control in the future, and if we fail to maintain effective internal control in the future, our management and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Furthermore, we have incurred and anticipate that we will continue to incur considerable costs, management time and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We have limited insurance coverage and may incur losses resulting from product liability, product recalls or business interruptions. Our sales agreements with customers require us to recall products that we, a regulatory body or any of our customers determine as failing to meet pre-determined specifications, standards, laws, regulations or containing substantial defects or substantial product hazards which could cause damage. These events may be considered a breach of our purchase agreement warranty to our customers and we may be required to bear all costs related to the resulting product recalls. As we continue to sell completed feature phones and smart phones to our customers, we are exposed to potential product liability claims in the event that the use of our products causes or is alleged to have caused personal injuries or other adverse effects. A successful product liability claim against us could require us to pay substantial damages. Product liability claims against us, whether successful or not, are costly and time-consuming to defend. Also, although we have not been found to produce defective products in the past, in the event that our products prove to be defective, we may be required to recall or redesign such products, which could result in substantial costs, diversion of management attention and resources and damage to our reputation. However, as the insurance industry in China is still in an early stage of development, product liability insurance available in China offers limited coverage compared to coverage offered in many other countries. We currently do not have any product liability insurance. A product liability claim, with or without merit, could result in significant adverse publicity against us and could negatively impact the marketability of our products and our reputation, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents In addition, we do not have any business interruption insurance coverage for our operations. Any business disruption or natural disaster could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and materially and adversely affect our business. We are subject to potential customers’ claims for refund and liquidated damages. Our agreements with many customers contain refund and liquidated damages provisions, which entitle the customers to demand refunds and liquidated damages if we cannot complete a mobile handset design by a specified deadline, if the requisite certifications cannot be obtained, or if we cannot timely deliver our smart phone or feature phone products to our customers. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully perform under every customer contract, or that costs associated with refunds and liquidated damages will not be material. Under the realigned business of providing turn-key solutions to our smart phone customers, we will outsource the assembly of final handset products to third-party companies. Any failure of such assembly companies in timely delivering to us the finished products with the stipulated quality will cause us to be liable to our customers. Defects in our mobile handset designs could result in loss of customers and claims against us. Our mobile handset designs are complex and must meet stringent quality requirements. Complex designs such as mobile handset designs sometimes contain defects, errors and bugs when they are first introduced. If any of our designs have reliability, quality or compatibility problems, we may not be able to correct these problems on a timely basis. Consequently, our reputation may be damaged, and customers may be reluctant to continue their contract with us, which could harm our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers. Because we cannot test for all possible scenarios, our product designs may contain errors that are not discovered until mobile handsets have gone into mass production. These problems may result in a loss of our customers as well as claims against us. We face such risk not only in the case of the customers for our handset design services, but also in the case of the customers for our product sales. As our revenues continue to be increasingly dominated by product sales, any design defects in the mobile handsets that we sell to such customers may subject us to liability. We cannot assure you that we will not be subject to claims by our customers in the future, and if we fail on the merits of these claims, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related To Our Corporate Structure If the PRC government finds that the arrangements that establish the structure for operating our China business are inadequate in any way, we could be subject to severe penalties and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We entered into contractual arrangements with QIGI Technology, our variable interest entity in the PRC, under which QIGI Technology operates the business in relation to QIGI branded mobile phones in China. These contractual arrangements enable us to (1) have the power to direct the activities that most significantly affect the economic performance of QIGI Technology, (2) receive substantially all of the economic benefits from QIGI Technology for the services provided by our wholly owned subsidiary in China, and (3) have an exclusive option to purchase all or part of the equity interests in QIGI Technology, or request any existing shareholders of QIGI Technology to transfer all or part of the equity interest in QIGI Technology to another party designated by us at any time at our discretion. We previously also had similar contractual arrangements with Techfaith Interactive, but Techfaith Interactive was deconsolidated in October 2012 when it started to undergo liquidation proceedings. For details of contractual arrangements with our variable interest entity, see “Item 4. Information on the Company — A. History and Development of the Company” and Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 20-F. 11 Table of Contents Tianyuan Law Firm, our PRC legal counsel, is of the opinion that our corporate structure in China is in compliance with existing PRC laws and regulations, and the contractual arrangements among our wholly owned subsidiaries in China, variable interest entity and the shareholders of our variable interest entity are valid, binding and enforceable under, and do not violate, PRC laws or regulations currently in effect. We have been advised by our PRC legal counsel, however, that there are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of current and future PRC laws and regulations, and these contractual arrangements may be subject to reviews by the PRC government from time to time. See “— Risks Related to Doing Business in China— Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us.” Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the PRC regulatory authorities will not in the future take a view that is contrary to the above opinion of our PRC legal counsel. Our contractual arrangements with our variable interest entity in China and the individual nominee shareholders may not be as effective in providing control over the entity as direct ownership. We operate our business in relation to QIGI branded mobile phones through QIGI Technology in China. QIGI Technology is owned by two PRC individuals, who are also shareholders of us. We have no equity interest in QIGI Technology and must rely on contractual arrangements to control and operate the relevant businesses. These contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing control over QIGI Technology as direct ownership. For example, QIGI Technology and the individual shareholders could breach their contractual arrangements with us by, among other things, failing to operate our business in an acceptable manner or taking other actions that are detrimental to our interests. If QIGI Technology or its individual shareholders fail to perform their obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to incur substantial costs to enforce such arrangements, and rely on legal remedies under PRC law, including contract remedies, which may not be sufficient or effective. Although QIGI Technology contributed an insignificant amount to our total revenues in 2011, and did not contribute to our revenues in 2012 and 2013, if we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, or if we suffer significant delay or other obstacles in the process of enforcing these contractual arrangements, we may not be able to have the power to direct the activities that most significantly affect the economic performance of QIGI Technology, our ability to conduct our business may be negatively affected, and we may not be able to consolidate the financial results of QIGI Technology into our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which could adversely affect our results of operations and damage our reputation. Our ability to enforce the equity pledge agreement between us and our variable interest entity’s shareholders may be subject to limitations based on PRC laws and regulations. The shareholders of QIGI Technology, our variable interest entity in China, have pledged all of their equity interests in QIGI Technology to Tecface International Technology, our wholly-owned subsidiary in China. An equity pledge agreement becomes effective among the parties upon execution, but according to the PRC Property Rights Law, an equity pledge is not perfected as a security property right unless it is registered with the relevant local branch of the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, or SAIC. We are currently in the process of registering the pledge of equity interests in QIGI Technology with the relevant local branch of SAIC. We believe that the equity pledge agreement among QIGI Technology, shareholders of QIGI Technology and Tecface International Technology became effective and valid on the date when the agreement was duly executed, and we believe lack of registration does not limit the ability of Tecface International Technology to enforce its contractual rights against the shareholders of QIGI Technology under the equity pledge agreement, such as the rights to ask the shareholders to register the equity pledge and to demand that they sell the equity interests being pledged in the event of a default under the agreements secured by the equity pledge. For the same reason, we believe the lack of registration does not limit Tecface International Technology to exercise control over QIGI Technology. However, according to the PRC Property Rights Law, in order to create a valid equity pledge, registration of such pledge with the relevant local branch of SAIC is a pre-condition. QIGI Technology has not completed the registration of the pledges so far, and the pledges, as property rights, have not become effective under the PRC Property Rights Law. As a result, Tecface International Technology may not be able to successfully enforce the pledges against any third parties that have acquired property right interests in good faith in the equity interests in QIGI Technology. As a result, if QIGI Technology breaches its obligations described above, and there are third parties who have acquired equity interests in good faith, we would need to resort to legal proceedings to enforce the contractual rights of Tecface International Technology under the equity pledge agreements, or the underlying agreements secured by the pledges. 12 Table of Contents Furthermore, according to the PRC Property Law and PRC laws governing guarantees, a pledgee and pledgor are prohibited from making an agreement prior to the expiration of the debt performance period to transfer the ownership of the pledged equity to the pledgee when the relevant obligor fails to pay the debt due. However, under the PRC Property Law, when an obligor fails to pay its debt when due, the pledgee may choose to either conclude an agreement with the pledgor to obtain the pledged equity or seek payments from the proceeds of the auction or sell-off of the pledged equity. If QIGI Technology or its shareholders fail to perform their obligations secured by the pledges under the equity pledge agreement, one remedy in the event of default under the agreement is to require the pledgor to sell the equity interests of QIGI Technology in an auction or sell-off and remit the proceeds to Tecface International Technology Limited, net of related taxes and expenses. We consider it very unlikely that the public auction process would be undertaken since, in an event of default, our preferred approach is to ask Tecface International Technology Limited, a party to the option agreement with QIGI Technology’s shareholders, to designate another PRC person or entity to replace the existing shareholders of QIGI Technology pursuant to the direct transfer option we have under the option agreement. However, such an auction or sell-off, if it takes place, may result in our not receiving the full value of the equity interests in QIGI Technology. Our contractual arrangements may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities and may result in adverse tax consequences to us. Under PRC laws and regulations, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be subject to audit or challenge by the PRC tax authorities within ten years after the taxable year during which the transactions are conducted. We could face material and adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that either the contractual arrangements with Techfaith Interactive or the contractual arrangements between Tecface International Technology and QIGI Technology, our variable interest entity, do not represent an arm’s-length price and adjust variable interest entity’s income in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could, among other things, result in a reduction, for PRC tax purposes, of expense deductions recorded by the variable interest entity, which could in turn increase its tax liabilities. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may impose late payment fees and other penalties to variable interest entity for under-paid taxes. Our consolidated net income may be adversely affected if our tax liabilities increase or if we are found to be subject to late payment fees or other penalties. The individual nominee shareholders of our variable interest entity may have potential conflicts of interest with us, which may adversely affect our business. We do not have any arrangements in place to address such potential conflicts. Given that Techfaith Interactive has been deconsolidated due to its liquidation in October 2012, we have removed Techfaith Interactive from our consolidated financial statements. Thus, QIGI Technology, which is owned by two PRC nationals, is our sole operating variable interest entity as of the date of this annual report. The interests of these individual shareholders may differ from the interests of our company as a whole. We cannot assure you that when conflicts of interest arise, these individual shareholders will act in the best interests of our company or that conflicts of interests will be resolved in our favor. In addition, these individual shareholders of QIGI Technology may breach or cause QIGI Technology to breach or refuse to renew the existing contractual arrangements that allow us to exercise effective control over it and to receive economic benefits from it. Currently, we do not have existing arrangements to address potential conflicts of interest of these individual shareholders, except that we could, at all times, exercise our option under the option agreement with individuals shareholders of QIGI Technology to cause them to transfer all of their equity ownership in QIGI Technology to a PRC entity or individual designated by us, and this new shareholder of QIGI Technology could then appoint a new director of QIGI Technology to replace the existing directors. In addition, if such conflicts of interest arise, our wholly owned PRC subsidiary could also, in the capacity of individual shareholders’ attorney-in-fact as provided under existing powers of attorney, directly appoint a new director of QIGI Technology to replace the existing directors. We rely on these individual shareholders to comply with the laws of China, which (1) protect contracts, including the contractual arrangements QIGI Technology and its shareholders have entered into with us, and (2) which provide that directors and executive officers owe a duty of loyalty to our company and require them to avoid conflicts of interest and not to take advantage of their positions for personal gains. If we cannot resolve any conflicts of interest or disputes between us and these individual shareholders of QIGI Technology, we would have to rely on legal proceedings, which could result in disruption of our business and subject us to substantial uncertainty as to the outcome of any such legal proceedings. 13 Table of Contents Risks Related To Doing Business in China Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and services and materially and adversely affect our competitive position. Our business operations are primarily conducted in China and we believe that a significant portion of the mobile handsets we design are sold to end users in China. Accordingly, our results of operations, financial condition and prospects may be influenced to a significant degree to the economic, political and legal developments of China, and by continued economic growth in China as a whole. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the level of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. Although the Chinese government has implemented measures since the late 1970s emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets, and the establishment of improved corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the Chinese government. In addition, the Chinese government continues to play a significant role in regulating industrial development through industrial policies. The Chinese government also exercises significant control over the Chinese economic growth through allocating resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy, and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. While the Chinese economy has experienced significant growth in recent decades, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The Chinese government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. The Chinese government has implemented certain measures, including interest rate increases, to control the pace of economic growth. These measures may cause decreased economic activity in China and, since 2012, Chinese economic growth has slowed. Any prolonged slowdown in the Chinese economy may reduce the demand for our products and services and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business benefits from certain tax incentives, and changes to these tax incentives could adversely affect our operating results. Our income tax is primarily governed by the Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, which was adopted by the National People’s Congress of China on March 16, 2007 and became effective on January 1, 2008. The EIT Law applies a uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate to both foreign invested enterprises and domestic enterprises. Under the EIT Law, an enterprise which qualifies as a “high and new technology enterprise” (“HNTE”) is entitled to a tax rate of 15%. A HNTE status obtained under the EIT Law is valid for three years, after which qualifying entities can apply to renew their HNTE status for an additional three years, provided their business operations continue to qualify for the HNTE status. Both Techfaith China and Techfaith Intelligent Handset Beijing most recently renewed their HNTE status under the EIT Law in 2011, which will expire in September 2014. Techfaith Shanghai, a qualified manufacturing foreign investment enterprise located in Shanghai Pudong according to the old enterprise income tax law prior to January 1, 2008, most recently renewed its HNTE status in 2011 under the EIT Law, which will expire in October 2014. One Net most recently renewed its HNTE status in Decemeber 2013 under the EIT Law, which will expire in December 2016. We plan to apply for renewal of HNTE status for each of our qualifying entities before the respective expiry dates. We believe it is highly likely that our qualifying entities will continue to obtain the renewal in the future. Accordingly, Techfaith China, Techfaith Intelligent Handset Beijing, Techfaith Shanghai and One Net have used the reduced applicable tax rate in calculating deferred tax balances for the foreseeable future. Some of our PRC subsidiaries, including TechSoft, also enjoyed various income tax exemptions because they were qualified as “foreign investment enterprises” before January 1, 2008. Based on the transition rules of the EIT Law, those PRC subsidiaries continue to enjoy preferential tax rates from 2008 through 2012 due to the preferential tax qualification obtained prior to January 1, 2008. Those subsidiaries in China have ceased to receive such preferential tax treatment at the close of our fiscal year 2012. There is no assurance that our subsidiaries in China will continue to receive any other preferential income tax treatment. If any of these incentives are reduced or eliminated by government authorities in the future, the effective tax rates of our subsidiaries in China and our effective tax rates on a consolidated basis could increase significantly. Any such change could adversely affect our operating results. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Regulations — Tax.” 14 Table of Contents Our subsidiaries in China are subject to restrictions on dividend payments, or making other payments to us or any other affiliated company. We are a holding company incorporated in the Cayman Islands. We conduct substantially all of our operations through our subsidiaries in China. Current PRC regulations permit our subsidiaries in China to pay dividends only out of their respective accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. In addition, our subsidiaries in China are each required to set aside at least 10% of their respective after tax profits each year, if any, to fund certain reserve funds until the cumulative amount of such reserves reaches 50% of its registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. In addition, if any of our subsidiaries in China incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict the subsidiary’s ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us. We may be treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes under the EIT Law, which may subject us to PRC income tax for our income originated both within and outside the PRC and PRC income tax withholding for any dividends we pay to our non-PRC shareholders. Under the EIT Law and relevant implementing rules, enterprises established under the laws of non-PRC jurisdictions, but whose de facto management body is located in the PRC, may be treated as “resident enterprises” for PRC tax purposes and is generally subject to a uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate on its worldwide income. The implementing rules of the EIT Law define de facto management as having substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties of the enterprise. The guidance currently available for the definition of “de facto management body” as well as the determination of offshore incorporated PRC tax resident is set forth in a notice and a bulletin issued by the PRC State Administration of Taxation, or SAT, in 2009 and 2011, respectively. The notice and the bulletin apply to a Chinese-controlled offshore incorporated enterprise, which is incorporated under the law of a foreign country or territory and that has a PRC company or PRC corporate group as its primary controlling shareholder. See “Item 4 Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Regulation — Tax.” Based on our analysis of the current facts, we believe that our company and our overseas subsidiaries should not be treated as resident enterprises for PRC tax purposes. However, it continues to be unclear as to how tax authorities will determine tax residency based on the facts of each case. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013, our calculation of income taxes generally reflects our status as a non-China tax resident company. If the PRC governmental authorities hold that our company or our overseas subsidiaries should be treated as a “resident enterprise” for PRC tax purposes after January 1, 2008, the effective date of the EIT Law, our worldwide income will be subject to PRC income tax at the 25% uniform tax rate, but will exclude any dividend income we receive from our domestic subsidiaries, which are exempted taxable income under the EIT Law. If we and our overseas subsidiaries are treated as “resident enterprises” and are required to pay income tax for dividends paid to our offshore subsidiaries which are not treated as “resident enterprises,” it will materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. With the 10% PRC dividend withholding tax imposed by the EIT Law in 2008, we will incur an incremental PRC tax cost when PRC profits are distributed to ultimate shareholders. In addition, if we are determined to be a PRC resident enterprise under the new PRC tax system and receive income other than dividends, our profitability and cash flow would be adversely impacted due to our worldwide income being taxed in China under the new PRC tax law. Under the EIT Law and its implementation rules, dividends payable by a foreign-invested enterprise in China to its foreign investors who are non-resident enterprises are subject to a 10% withholding tax, unless any such foreign investor’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty or similar arrangement with China that provides for a different withholding arrangement. Moreover, under the EIT Law, foreign ADS holders may be subject to a 10% withholding tax upon dividends payable by us and gains realized on the sale or other disposition of ADSs or ordinary shares, if such income is sourced from within the PRC. Although our company is incorporated in the Cayman Islands, it remains unclear whether the dividends payable by us or the gains our foreign ADS holders may realize will be regarded as income from sources within the PRC if we are classified as a PRC resident enterprise. Any such tax on our dividend payments will reduce the returns of your investment. 15 Table of Contents Proceedings instituted by the SEC against five PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, could result in financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. In late 2012, the SEC commenced administrative proceedings under Rule 102(e) of its Rules of Practice and also under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 against the Chinese affiliates of the ‘‘big four’’ accounting firms (including our auditors) and also against Dahua (the former BDO affiliate in China). The Rule 102(e) proceedings initiated by the SEC relate to these firms’ inability to produce documents, including audit work papers, in response to the request of the SEC pursuant to Section 106 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as the auditors located in the PRC are not in a position lawfully to produce documents directly to the SEC because of restrictions under PRC law and specific directives issued by the China Securities Regulatory Commission. The issues raised by the proceedings are not specific to our auditors or to us, but affect equally all audit firms based in China and all China-based businesses with securities listed in the United States. In January 2014, the administrative judge reached an Initial Decision that the “big four” accounting firms should be barred from practicing before the Commission for six months. However, it is currently impossible to determine the ultimate outcome of this matter as the accounting firms have filed a Petition for Review of the Initial Decision and pending that review the effect of the Initial Decision is suspended. The SEC Commissioners will review the Initial Decision, determine whether there has been any violation and, if so, determine the appropriate remedy to be placed on these audit firms. Once such an order was made, the accounting firms would have a further right to appeal to the US Federal courts, and the effect of the order might be further stayed pending the outcome of that appeal. Depending upon the final outcome, listed companies in the United States with major PRC operations may find it difficult or impossible to retain auditors in respect of their operations in the PRC, which could result in financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, including possible delisting. Moreover, any negative news about the proceedings against these audit firms may cause investor uncertainty regarding China-based, U.S.-listed companies and the market price of our ADSs may be adversely affected. Fluctuation in the value of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including U.S. dollars, is based on rates set by the People’s Bank of China. The PRC government allowed the Renminbi to appreciate by more than 20% against the U.S. dollar between July 2005 and July 2008. Between July 2008 and June 2010, this appreciation halted and the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar remained within a narrow band. Since June 2010, the PRC government has allowed the Renminbi to appreciate slowly against the U.S. dollar again, although there have been periods, most recently beginning in February 2014, when the U.S. dollar has appreciated against the Renminbi as well. It is difficult to predict how market forces or PRC or U.S. government policy may impact the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar in the future. There remains significant international pressure on the Chinese government to adopt a substantial liberalization of its currency policy, which could result in further appreciation in the value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. There remains significant international pressure on the Chinese government to adopt a substantial liberalization of its currency policy, which could result in further appreciation in the value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. To the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into RMB for capital expenditures and working capital and other business purposes, appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the RMB amount we would receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert RMB into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or ADSs, strategic acquisitions or investments or other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the RMB would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. 16 Table of Contents The M&A Rule sets forth complex procedures for acquisitions conducted by foreign investors which could make it more difficult to pursue growth through acquisitions. The Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Rule, sets forth complex procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the Ministry of Commerce be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise. We may expand our business in part by acquiring complementary businesses or assets in China. Complying with the requirements of the M&A Rule to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the Ministry of Commerce, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. The principal regulation governing foreign currency exchange in China is the Foreign Currency Administration Rules, as amended. Under these rules, RMB are freely convertible for trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not for direct investment, loan or investment in securities outside China unless the prior approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, is obtained. Although the PRC government regulations now allow greater convertibility of RMB for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain. For example, foreign exchange transactions under our subsidiaries’ capital account, including principal payments in respect of foreign currency-denominated obligations, remain subject to significant foreign exchange controls and the approval of SAFE. In May 2013, SAFE promulgated SAFE Circular 21 which provides for and simplifies the operational steps and regulations on foreign exchange matters related to direct investment by foreign investors, including foreign exchange registration, account opening and use, receipt and payment of funds, and settlement and sales of foreign exchange. We generally follow the regulations and apply to obtain the approval of SAFE and other relevant PRC government authorities. However, we may not be able to obtain these government registrations or approvals on a timely basis, if at all. If we fail to receive such registrations or approvals, our ability to provide loans or capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries and our affiliated PRC entities may be negatively affected, which could adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. SAFE issued regulations that require approvals from, and registrations with, PRC government authorities in connection with direct or indirect offshore investment activities by PRC residents and PRC corporate entities. The SAFE regulations retroactively require approval and registration of direct or indirect investments previously made by PRC residents in offshore companies. In the event that a PRC shareholder with a direct or indirect stake in an offshore parent company fails to obtain the required SAFE approval and make the required registration, the PRC subsidiaries of such offshore parent company may be prohibited from making distributions of profit to the offshore parent and from paying the offshore parent proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation in respect of the PRC subsidiaries. Further, failure to comply with the various SAFE approval and registration requirements described above, as currently drafted, could result in liability under PRC law for foreign exchange evasion. Because the majority of our business operations is in China, these regulations could result in the relevant PRC government authorities limiting or eliminating our ability to purchase and retain currencies other than the RMB in the future, which could limit or eliminate our ability to fund any business activities we may have outside China or to make dividend payments in U.S. dollars in the future. PRC regulation of direct investment and loans by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may delay or limit us from making additional capital contributions or loans to our PRC subsidiaries. Any capital contributions or loans that we, as an offshore entity, make to our PRC subsidiaries are subject to PRC regulations. For example, none of our loans to a PRC subsidiary can exceed the difference between its total amount of investment and its registered capital approved under relevant PRC laws, and the loans must be registered with the local branch of SAFE. See “— Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively.” Our capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries must be approved by the Ministry of Commerce or its local counterpart. We cannot assure you that we will be able to complete the necessary registration or obtain the necessary approval on a timely basis, or at all. If we fail to complete the necessary registration or obtain the necessary approval, our ability to make loans or equity contributions to our PRC subsidiaries may be negatively affected, which could adversely affect our PRC subsidiaries’ liquidity and their ability to fund their working capital and expansion projects and meet their obligations and commitments. 17 Table of Contents PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident shareholders to personal liability and limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us, or otherwise adversely affect us. In October 2005, SAFE promulgated Relevant Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Control on Domestic Residents’ Corporate Financing and Roundtrip Investment through Offshore Special Purpose Vehicles, or Circular 75, and SAFE has further issued a series of implementation guidance. These regulations require PRC residents to register with the local SAFE branch before directly establishing or indirectly controlling any offshore company for the purpose of overseas capital financing with assets of or equity interests in PRC companies held by them. PRC residents must also file amendments to their registrations if their offshore companies experience material events involving capital variation, such as changes in share capital, share transfers, mergers and acquisitions, spin-off transactions, long-term equity or debt investments or providing guarantees. Under these regulations, PRC residents’ failure to comply with specified registration procedures may result in restrictions being imposed on the foreign exchange activities of the relevant PRC entity, including the payment of dividends and other distributions to its offshore parent, as well as restrictions on capital inflows from the offshore entity to the PRC entity. We have notified beneficial owners of our company who we know are PRC residents to register with the local SAFE branch if they are required to register under the SAFE notice. The failure or inability of beneficial owners of our company resident in the PRC to comply with the registration procedures set forth therein may subject such beneficial owners to fines and legal sanctions and may also limit our ability to contribute additional capital into our PRC subsidiary and our PRC subsidiary’s ability to distribute profits to our company or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business. We may be subject to fines and legal sanctions if we or our Chinese employees fail to comply with PRC regulations relating to employee stock options granted by overseas listed companies to PRC citizens. In February 2012, SAFE promulgated the Notice relating to Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Stock Incentive Plan of Overseas-Listed Company, or SAFE Notice 7, which replaced an earlier SAFE notice promulgated in 2007. Under SAFE Notice 7, PRC individuals and foreign citizens having resided in the PRC for one year or more who participate in a stock incentive plan of an overseas listed company are required, through a PRC domestic agent or PRC subsidiary of the overseas listed company, to register with SAFE or its local branches and complete certain other procedures. We and our Chinese employees who have been granted nonvested shares or stock options pursuant to our 2005 share incentive plan are subject to this notice because we are an overseas listed company. If we or our Chinese employees fail to comply with the provisions of this notice, we and/or our Chinese employees may be subject to fines and legal sanctions imposed by SAFE or other PRC government authorities. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us. We conduct substantially all of our business through our subsidiaries established in China. Our subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China and, in particular, PRC laws applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises and Sino-foreign joint ventures. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since the PRC legal system is still evolving, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties. For example, in August 2011, the Ministry of Commerce, or MOFCOM, promulgated the Rules of Ministry of Commerce on Implementation of Security Review System of Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the MOFCOM Security Review Rules, to implement an earlier circular of the General Office of the State Counsel. The MOFCOM Security Review Rules came into effect on September 1, 2011. Under these circulars and rules, a MOFCOM security review is required for foreign investors’ mergers and acquisitions having “national defense and security” implications and mergers and acquisitions by which foreign investors may acquire “de facto control” of domestic enterprises having “national security” implications. In addition, when deciding whether a specific merger or acquisition of a domestic enterprise by foreign investors is subject to a security review, MOFCOM will look into the substance and actual impact of the transaction. The MOFCOM Security Review Rules further prohibit foreign investors from bypassing the security review requirement through various means, including by structuring transactions through proxies, indirect investments and control through contractual arrangements. However, as these circulars and rules are relatively new and there is a lack of clear statutory interpretation regarding the implementation of the rules, there is no assurance that the MOFCOM will have the same view as we do when applying these circulars and rules. 18 Table of Contents From time to time, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce our legal rights. However, since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we enjoy than in more developed legal systems. Furthermore, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published in a timely manner or at all) that may have retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until some time after the violation. Such uncertainties, including uncertainty over the scope and effect of our contractual, property (including intellectual property) and procedural rights, and any failure to respond to changes in the regulatory environment in China could materially and adversely affect our business and impede our ability to continue our operations In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. The laws and regulations governing internet-related businesses in China are developing and subject to future changes. If we or any of our PRC operating subsidiaries or variable interest entity fail to obtain or maintain all applicable permits and approvals, our business and operations may be materially and adversely affected. All internet-related businesses in China are highly regulated by the PRC government and numerous regulatory authorities of the central PRC government are empowered to issue and implement regulations governing various aspects of the internet industry including foreign ownership of and licensing and permit requirements pertaining to companies in the internet industry. These internet-related laws and regulations are relatively new and evolving, and their interpretation and enforcement involve significant uncertainty. In addition, new laws and regulations may be adopted in the future to address new issues that arise from time to time, such as online advertising and other use of the internet in our operation. Also, different regulatory authorities may have different views regarding the licensing requirements for the operation of any internet related businesses. Our subsidiaries and variable interest entity are required to obtain and maintain applicable licenses or approvals from different regulatory authorities in order to provide their current services, including but not limited to the ICP license. Furthermore, our subsidiaries and variable interest entity may be required to obtain additional licenses. If any of them fails to obtain or maintain any of the required licenses or approvals, its continued business operations in the internet industry may subject it to various penalties, such as confiscation of illegal net sales, fines and the discontinuation or restriction of its operations. Any such disruption in the business operations of our affiliated PRC entities will materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we believe that we are in material compliance with all applicable PRC laws and regulations currently in effect, we cannot assure you that we will not be found to be in violation of any current or future PRC laws and regulations in the future. Additional government regulations resulting from negative publicity in China regarding internet-related aspects of our business or otherwise may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Labor laws in China evolve with time and implementation of new labor laws in China may adversely affect our business and results of operations. China adopted a labor contract law, or the Labor Contract Law, which went into effect on January 1, 2008 and was amended in 2012. The Labor Contract Law imposes more stringent requirements on employers with regard to, among other things, minimum wages, and severance payments upon permitted termination of the employment by an employer and non-fixed term employment contracts, time limits for probation periods as well as the duration and the times that an employee can be placed on a fixed term employment contract. According to the Labor Contract Law, an employer is obliged to sign an unlimited-term labor contract with any employee who has worked for the employer for ten consecutive years. Further, if an employee requests or agrees to renew a fixed-term labor contract that has already been entered into twice consecutively, the resulting contract is deemed to have an unlimited term, with certain exceptions. The employer must also pay severance to an employee in nearly all instances where a labor contract, including a contract with an unlimited term, is terminated or expires. In addition, the PRC government has continued to introduce various new labor-related regulations since the implementation of the Labor Contract Law. Among other things, new annual leave requirements mandate that annual leave ranging from five to 15 days be made available to nearly all employees and further require that each employer compensates an employee for any annual leave days the employee is unable to take in the amount of three times his daily salary, subject to certain exceptions. 19 Table of Contents Under the PRC Social Insurance Law and the Administrative Measures on Housing Fund, employees are required to participate in pension insurance, work-related injury insurance, medical insurance, unemployment insurance, maternity insurance and housing funds and employers are required, together with their employees or separately, to pay the social insurance premiums and housing funds for their employees. As a result of these and future measures that may be implemented to enhance labor protection in China, our labor costs may increase and we cannot assure you that our employment practices do not or will not violate the Labor Contract Law, the Social Insurance Law or any other existing or future labor-related regulations in China. If we are subject to severe penalties or found to incur significant liabilities in connection with labor disputes or investigations, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. The audit report included in this annual report are prepared by auditors who are not inspected by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as such, you are deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Our independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission, as auditors of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the US Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (“the “PCAOB”), is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because our auditors are located in the Peoples’ Republic of China, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the Chinese authorities, our auditors are not currently inspected by the PCAOB. Inspections of other firms that the PCAOB has conducted outside China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. This lack of PCAOB inspections in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating our auditor’s audits and its quality control procedures. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of auditors in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors outside of China that are subject to PCAOB inspections. Investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. Risks Related to Shares and ADSs The future sales by our existing shareholders of a substantial number of our ADSs in the public market could adversely affect the price of our ADSs. If our existing shareholders sell substantial amounts of our ADSs in the public market, the market price of our ADSs could fall. Such sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. 20 Table of Contents As of the date of this annual report, our management collectively beneficially owns approximately 33.1% of our outstanding shares. They and the other shareholders with registration rights may cause us to register the sale of their shares under the Securities Act. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in these shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act immediately upon the effectiveness of the registration. On June 9, 2009, to finance the development of our game business, our subsidiary Leo Technology Limited, now renamed 798 Entertainment Limited, issued US$10 million of common equity to the Hong Kong-based venture capital firm Infiniti Capital Limited and US$10 million aggregate principal amount of 8% senior secured convertible promissory notes with a maturity date of three years to IDG-Accel China Growth Fund II L.P. and IDG-Accel China Investors II L.P., or the IDG Funds, which are entities affiliated with IDGVC Partners, a venture capital firm. The notes were convertible into our ordinary shares or Leo Technology Limited’s ordinary shares at the option of the note holders. According to the relevant investor rights agreement, each of the IDG Funds chose to convert 62.5% of its share of the principal amount of the 8% senior secured convertible promissory notes into our ordinary shares, and the remaining 37.5% was converted into ordinary shares of 798 Entertainment Limited on September 8, 2010. As a result of the conversion, we issued 78,814,628 of our ordinary shares to IDG Funds. As of the date of this annual report, IDG Funds have met the terms and conditions for resale under Rule 144 of the Securities Act in relation to these shares, represented by 5,254,309 ADSs, and may offer and sell such ADSs from time to time on the open market. Sales of the above-mentioned registered shares and other shares in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. The market price for our ADSs has been and may continue to be volatile. The market price for our ADSs has been and may continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • conditions in the markets for mobile handsets; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other mobile handset design houses, original design product providers or manufacturers; • performance of other China-based companies that are listed on NASDAQ; • announcements by us or our competitors of new products, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • addition or departure of key personnel; and • fluctuations of exchange rates between the RMB and U.S. dollar. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market prices for companies with operations in China in particular, have experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. The securities of some China-based companies that have listed their securities in the United States have experienced significant volatility since their initial public offerings in recent years, including, in some cases, substantial declines in the trading prices of their securities. The trading performances of these companies’ securities after their offerings may affect the attitudes of investors towards Chinese companies listed in the United States in general, which consequently may impact the trading performance of our ADSs, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition, any negative news or perceptions about inadequate corporate governance practices or fraudulent accounting, corporate structure or other matters of other Chinese companies may also negatively affect the attitudes of investors towards Chinese companies in general, including us, regardless of whether we have engaged in any inappropriate activities. In particular, the global financial crisis and the ensuing economic recessions in many countries have contributed and may continue to contribute to extreme volatility in the global stock markets. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. Volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may also adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, some of whom have been granted options or other equity incentives. 21 Table of Contents We may need additional capital, and the sale of additional ADSs or other equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for the next 12 months. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If these resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association and by the Companies Law, as amended from time to time, and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and provides significantly less protection to investors. Therefore, our public shareholders may have more difficulties in protecting their interests in the face of actions by our management, directors or controlling shareholders than would public shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action before the federal courts of the United States. As a result, we may not be able to protect your interests if we are harmed in a manner that would otherwise enable us to sue in a United States federal court. Your ability to bring an action against us or against our directors and officers, or to enforce a judgment against us or them, will be limited because we are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, because we conduct a substantial portion of our operations in China and because the majority of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, and we conduct a substantial portion of our operations in China through our wholly owned subsidiaries and variable interest entity in China. Most of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States and most of the assets of those persons are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the United States in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the United States securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. You may not be able to exercise your right to vote. As a holder of ADSs, you may instruct the depositary of our ADSs to vote the shares underlying your ADSs but only if we ask the depositary to ask for your instructions. Otherwise, you will not be able to exercise your right to vote unless you withdraw the shares. However, you may not know about the meeting enough in advance to withdraw the shares. If we ask for your instructions, the depositary will notify you of the upcoming vote and arrange to deliver our voting materials to you. We cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your shares. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions or for the manner of carrying out voting instructions. This means that you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and there may be nothing you can do if the shares underlying your ADSs are not voted as you requested. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act, or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Also, under the deposit agreement, the depositary bank will not make those rights available to you unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act, or exempt from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. 22 Table of Contents You may not receive distributions on ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical to make them available to you. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it decides that it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. We have no obligation to register ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or other securities under U.S. securities laws. We also have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of ADSs. This means that you may not receive the distribution we make on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available to you. These restrictions may have a material adverse effect on the value of your ADSs. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary thinks it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. We are controlled by a small group of our existing shareholders, whose interests may differ from other shareholders. As of the date of this annual report, our directors and executive officers as a group beneficially own 33.2% ordinary shares of our company, of which Mr. Defu Dong, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owns almost all of such ordinary shares and has the power to vote on behalf of the record holders of these shares over matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including electing directors and approving mergers or other business combination transactions. This concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our ADSs. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequences to U.S. Holders. Based on the price of our ADSs and ordinary shares and the composition of our assets (in particular the retention of a large amount of cash), we believe that it is very likely that we were classified as a “passive foreign investment company,” (or a “PFIC”), for United States federal income tax purposes for our taxable year ended December 31, 2013, and we will very likely be a PFIC for our current taxable year ending December 31, 2014 unless our share value increases and/or we invest a substantial amount of the cash and other passive assets we hold in assets that produce or are held for the production of active income. In addition, it is possible that one or more of our subsidiaries may be or become classified as a PFIC for United States federal income tax purposes. A non-U.S. corporation will be classified as a PFIC for any taxable year if either (1) 75% or more of its gross income consists of certain types of passive income or (2) 50% or more of the average quarterly value of its assets (as generally determined on that basis of fair market value) during such year produce or are held for the production of passive income. 23 Table of Contents If we were treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. Holder (as defined in Item 10. Additional Information — E. Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation) holds our ADSs or ordinary shares, such U.S. Holder may incur significantly increased United States income tax on gain recognized on the sale or other disposition of the ADSs or ordinary shares and on the receipt of distributions on the ADSs or ordinary shares to the extent such gain or distribution is treated as an “excess distribution” under the United States federal income tax rules. Further, a U.S. Holder will generally be treated as holding an equity interest in a PFIC in the first taxable year of the U.S. Holder’s holding period in which we become classified as a PFIC and subsequent taxable years (“PFIC-Tainted Shares”) even if, we, in fact, cease to be a PFIC in subsequent taxable years. Accordingly, a U.S. Holder who acquires our ADSs during the current taxable year ending 2014 or subsequent taxable years, should, to the extent an election is available, consider making a “mark-to-market” election in the first taxable year of such holder’s holding period to avoid owning PFIC-Tainted Shares. See “Item 10. Additional Information — E. Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation — Passive Foreign Investment Company.” 