Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this Form 10-K. If any of the events or developments described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may suffer. In that case, the trading price of our Class A common stock may decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. We depend on content obtained through agreements with third parties, including Standards Development Organizations (SDOs), and the failure to maintain these agreements on commercially reasonable terms could prove harmful to our business. A significant amount of the content that we use in our offerings is either purchased or licensed from third parties, including SDOs. Although we obtain data from over 370 SDOs, approximately 60% of the revenue generated by our Engineering segment is derived from offerings that include data that we license from 25 SDOs. We believe that the content licensed from many of these third parties, particularly the 25 SDOs referred to above, cannot be obtained from alternate sources on favorable terms, if at all. Our license agreements with these third parties are generally nonexclusive and many are terminable on less than one year’s notice. In addition, many of these third parties compete with one another and us. As a result, we may not be able to maintain or renew these agreements at cost-effective prices, and these third parties might restrict or withdraw their content from us for competitive or other reasons. Over the last few years, some third parties, including some SDOs, have increased the royalty payments we pay them for the use of their information and may continue to do so in the future. When such royalty payments increase, our Engineering segment operating margins may decline, as they have in the past. If we are unable to maintain or renew a significant number of these agreements, particularly those we have with SDOs, or if we renew a significant number of these agreements on terms that are less favorable to us, the quality of our offerings and our business, operating results, and financial condition may be adversely affected. If we are unable to consistently renew subscriptions for our offerings, our results could weaken. In 2006, we derived more than 75% of our revenues from subscriptions to our offerings. These subscriptions are generally for a term of one year. Our results depend on our ability to achieve and sustain high annual renewal rates on existing subscriptions and to enter into new subscription arrangements on commercially acceptable terms. Our failure to achieve high annual renewal rates on commercially acceptable terms would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Our growth strategy may prove unsuccessful. Our growth strategy involves enhancing our offerings to meet our customers’ needs. Our success in meeting these needs depends in large part upon our ability to deliver consistent, high-quality, and timely offerings covering issues, developments and trends that our customers view as important. In addition, we plan to grow by attracting new customers and expanding into new geographic markets. We also expect to grow by enhancing our services business, which historically has not been a part of our core business. It may take a considerable amount of time and expense to execute our growth strategy and, if we are unable to do so, our operating performance including our ability to generate additional revenues on a profitable basis, may be adversely affected. If we are unable to successfully identify or effectively integrate acquisitions, our financial results may be adversely affected. We intend to continue to selectively pursue acquisitions to complement our internal growth. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable candidates for successful acquisitions at acceptable prices. In addition, our ability to achieve the expected returns and synergies from our past and 16 future acquisitions and alliances depends in part upon our ability to integrate the offerings, technology, administrative functions, and personnel of these businesses into our business in an efficient and effective manner. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in integrating acquired businesses or that our acquired businesses will perform at the levels we anticipate. In addition, our past and future acquisitions may subject us to unanticipated risks or liabilities or disrupt our operations and divert management’s attention from our day-to-day operations. Our international operations are subject to exchange rate fluctuations and other risks relating to non-U.S. operations. In 2006, we generated approximately half of our revenues from sales outside the United States, and we expect to increase our international presence over time. Our primary operations outside the United States are in the United Kingdom, Canada, and Switzerland. Our operating profit outside the United States has historically exceeded our domestic operating profit. We are expanding our sales and marketing efforts in certain emerging markets, such as China and India. Expanding our business into emerging markets may present additional risks beyond those associated with more developed international markets. For example, in China and Russia, we may encounter risks associated with the ongoing transition from state business ownership to privatization. In any emerging market, we may face the risks of working in cash-based economies, dealing with inconsistent government policies, and encountering sudden currency revaluations. In addition, we have entered into agreements with companies in India as independent contractors who engage in data entry, programming, indexing, and testing. By doing so we must prepare for the risks that one or more independent contractors may perform work that deviates from our standards or that we may not be able to adequately monitor and control access to and use of our intellectual property. In addition, there are numerous risks inherent in doing business in international markets, including: · currency fluctuations; · the cost and uncertainty of obtaining data and creating solutions that are relevant to particular geographic markets; · the complexity of maintaining and monitoring effective policies and procedures in locations around the world; · the risks of divergent business expectations or difficulties in establishing joint ventures with foreign partners; · differing levels of intellectual property protection in various jurisdictions; · political instability and civil unrest; · restrictions or limitations on outsourcing contracts or services abroad; · restrictions or limitations on the repatriation of funds; and · potentially adverse tax consequences. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” We may not be able to protect intellectual property rights. We rely on copyright laws and nondisclosure, license, and confidentiality arrangements to protect our proprietary rights as well as the intellectual property rights of third parties whose content we license. However, it is not possible to prevent all unauthorized uses of these rights. We cannot assure you that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights, and the rights of those from whom we 17 license intellectual property, are adequate to deter misappropriation or that we will be able to detect unauthorized uses and take timely and effective steps to remedy this unauthorized conduct. In particular, a significant portion of our revenues are derived internationally where protecting intellectual property rights is even more challenging. To prevent or respond to unauthorized uses of our intellectual property, we might be required to engage in costly and time-consuming litigation and we may not ultimately prevail. In addition, our offerings could be less differentiated from those of our competitors, which could adversely affect the fees we are able to charge. We rely on a network of independent contractors and dealers whose actions could have an adverse effect on our business. We obtain some of our critical information, particularly in our Energy segment, from independent contractors. In addition, we rely on a network of dealers to sell our offerings in locations where we do not maintain a sales office or sales teams. These independent contractors and dealers are not employees of our company. As a result, we are limited in our ability to monitor and direct their activities. The loss of a significant number of these independent contractors or dealers could disrupt our information-gathering efforts or our sales, marketing and distribution activities. In addition, if any actions or business practices of these individuals or entities were found to violate our policies or procedures or were otherwise found to be inappropriate or illegal, we could be subject to litigation, regulatory sanctions, or reputation damage, any of which could adversely affect our business. We are affected by conditions and trends in our targeted industries, which may inhibit our ability to grow or otherwise adversely affect our business. We derive substantially all of our revenue from customers primarily in the energy, defense, aerospace, construction, electronics, and automotive industries. As a result, our business, financial condition, and results of operations depend upon conditions and trends affecting these industries generally. For example, many of our energy offerings are priced based on a customer’s oil and gas production and a decline in production for any reason could reduce our revenues. In addition, while we have benefited from recent strength in the energy markets (which has supported pricing power and sales opportunities for our Energy segment), a slowdown in new investment in the exploration and production sector of the energy industry could limit our ability to grow our Energy segment. Our ability to grow will depend in part upon the growth of these industries as well as our ability to increase sales of our offerings to customers in these industries. Additionally, the trend toward consolidation, particularly among oil and gas companies, could reduce the number of our current and potential customers and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Moreover, the larger organizations resulting from consolidation could have greater bargaining power, which could adversely affect the pricing of our offerings. Factors that adversely affect revenues and cash flows in these industries, including operating results, capital requirements, regulation, and litigation, could reduce the funds available to purchase our offerings. Our failure to maintain our revenues or margins could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The loss of, or the inability to attract and retain, key personnel could impair our future success. Our future success depends in part on the continued service of our executive officers and other key management, sales, marketing, product development, and operations personnel and on our ability to continue to attract, motivate, and retain additional highly qualified employees. The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel or our inability to recruit replacements for such personnel or to otherwise attract, motivate, or retain qualified personnel could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. 18 Our investments in technology may not be sufficient and may not result in an increase in our revenue or decreases in our operating costs. As the technological landscape continues to evolve, it may become increasingly difficult for us to make timely, cost-effective changes to our offerings in a manner that adequately differentiates them from those of our competitors. We cannot assure you that our investments have been or will be sufficient to maintain or improve our competitive position or that the development of new or improved technologies and products by our competitors will not have a material adverse effect on our businesses. We operate in competitive markets, which may adversely affect our market share and financial results. Some of our competitors focus on sub-markets within our targeted industries while others have significant financial and information-gathering resources, recognized brands, technological expertise, and market experience. Our competitors are continuously enhancing their products and services, developing new products and services, and investing in technology to better serve the needs of their existing customers and to attract new customers. We face competition in specific industries and with respect to specific offerings. For example, our U.S. well and production data offerings compete with offerings from P2 Energy Solutions, Inc., and DrillingInfo, Inc., in addition to smaller companies. Certain of our Energy segment’s other offerings compete with products from Wood Mackenzie Ltd., Divestco Inc., and Geologic Data Systems, Inc., in addition to other specialized companies. Our Engineering segment competes against a fragmented set of companies. In our specifications and standards business, we compete with SAI Global’s ILI, Thomson Corporation’s Techstreet™, United Business Media’s Barbour, and some of the SDOs. Our parts offerings compete with products from PartMiner, Inc., SAI Global’s ILI, Total Parts Plus, Inc., Proxity’s Proxity-EC, GlobalSpec, and Thomas Publishing Company, among others. We may also face competition from organizations and businesses that have not traditionally competed with us but that could adapt their products and services to meet the demands of our customers. Increased competition may require us to reduce the prices of our offerings or make additional capital investments which would adversely affect our margins. If we are unable or unwilling to do so, we may lose market share in our target markets and our financial results may be adversely affected. Most of our license agreements with SDOs are nonexclusive, which allow the SDOs to distribute their standards themselves or license them to other third parties for distribution. In addition, some of the critical information we use in our offerings is publicly available in raw form at little or no cost, and the Internet and other electronic media have simplified the process of locating, gathering and disseminating information. If users choose to obtain the critical information they need from our competitors, SDOs, or public sources, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. We could experience property damage, system failures, or capacity constraints, which could interrupt the delivery of our offerings to customers and ultimately cause us to lose customers. Our ability to protect our data centers against damage from interruptions or breach of information systems security, fire, power loss, sabotage, telecommunications failure, or other accidents or disasters is critical. Any delays or failures in our systems or errors in the technology that we use to store and deliver our content to customers would harm our business. The growth of our customer base may also strain our systems in the future. In addition, our products could be affected by failures of third-party technology used in our products and we could have no control over remedying these failures. Any failures or problems with our systems or decision-support tools could force us to incur significant costs to remedy the failures or problems, decrease customer demand for our products, tarnish our reputation, and harm our business. 19 We may be exposed to litigation related to content we make available to customers, and we may face legal liability or damage to our reputation if our customers are not satisfied with our offerings or if our offerings are misused. As a provider of critical information, decision-support tools, and related services and as a user of third-party content, we face potential liability for, among other things, breach of contract, negligence, and copyright and trademark infringement. Our professional reputation is an important factor in attracting and retaining our customers and in building relationships with the third parties that supply much of the critical information we use in our offerings. If customers were to become dissatisfied with the quality of our offerings, our reputation could be damaged and our business could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if the information in our offerings is incorrect for any reason, or if it is misused or used inappropriately, we could be subject to reputation damage or litigation. Our offerings could infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, which may require us to engage in costly litigation and could disrupt our business. Third parties may assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against us based on their intellectual property rights. If such claims are successful, we may have to pay substantial damages, possibly including treble damages, for past infringement. We might also be prohibited from selling our offerings or providing certain information without first obtaining a license from the third party, which, if available at all, may require us to pay additional royalties. Even if infringement claims against us are without merit, defending a lawsuit takes significant time, may be expensive, and may divert our management’s attention from other business concerns. We are controlled by an entity whose interests may differ from your interests; our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the board serves on the board of that entity and one of our directors is one of its executive officers. Our Class B common stock is entitled to ten votes per share, and our Class A common stock is entitled to one vote per share. As of November 30, 2006, our principal stockholders, TBG Holdings N.V. (TBG), a Netherlands-Antilles company, and Urvanos Investments Limited, a Cyprus limited liability company the indirect sole owner of which is TBG, own 100% our Class B common stock and approximately 23% of our outstanding Class A common stock. In the aggregate, this ownership represents approximately 81% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock (compared to approximately 41% of the overall economic interest). The Class B common stock may be converted into Class A common stock at any time and will automatically be converted into Class A common stock upon the earlier of the occurrence of specified events or November 16, 2009. See “Business—Overview—Ownership Structure.” Voting and investment decisions with respect to the shares of our company have historically been made by TBG. As a result, TBG controls all matters requiring stockholder approval, including amendments to our certificate of incorporation, the election of directors, and significant corporate transactions, such as potential mergers or other sales of our company or our assets. In addition, TBG could also influence our dividend policy. TBG may have interests that conflict with yours and actions may be taken that you do not view as beneficial. Jerre L. Stead, our Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman of our board of directors, is a member of the board of directors of TBG. Michael v. Staudt, an executive vice president of TBG, is a member of our board of directors. In addition, prior to our initial public offering, C. Michael Armstrong, Roger Holtback, and Michael Klein, all members of our board of directors, were members of the board of directors and an advisory committee of TBG. TBG is wholly-owned indirectly by The Thyssen-Bornemisza Continuity Trust (Trust), a Bermuda trust, which was created for the benefit of certain members of the Thyssen-Bornemisza family. The trustee of the Trust is Thybo Trustees Limited (Thybo), a Bermuda company. As trustee of the indirect sole 20 stockholder of TBG, Thybo has the power to exercise significant influence over the management and affairs of TBG, including by electing or replacing TBG’s board of directors. In addition, in certain circumstances, Thybo may be required to act with respect to TBG at the direction of Tornabuoni Limited (Tornabuoni), a Guernsey company, which is an oversight entity that was established at the time the Trust was created. The board of directors of Tornabuoni may only act by unanimous vote and one of its members is Georg Heinrich Thyssen-Bornemisza (a beneficiary of the Trust). Although Thybo has the power to exert influence over TBG, it has not done so in the past and is not required to do so, except in the case of fraud or as directed by Tornabuoni. In addition, while Tornabuoni has the power to direct Thybo to act with respect to TBG, Tornabuoni has not done so in the past. We have been advised by the current directors of each of Tornabuoni and Thybo that they have no intention at this time to exercise any power they may have to exert such influence with respect to TBG. In addition, discussions are ongoing among Thybo and the beneficiaries of the Trust with a view to reorganizing the Trust in the future. It is contemplated that if such a reorganization were to take place, separate trusts for the beneficiaries would be created with the trust created for the benefit of Georg Heinrich Thyssen-Bornemisza and his immediate family becoming the sole indirect owner of TBG, which in turn would remain the sole indirect owner of Urvanos Investments Limited, which holds shares of our Class A common stock and all of our Class B common stock. The trusts created for the benefit of one or more of the other beneficiaries and their immediate families may also become owners, directly or indirectly, of the shares of Class A common stock currently held by TBG. Should this reorganization occur, TBG would continue to have the power to exercise significant influence over our management and affairs and over all matters requiring stockholder approval in the same manner as it currently does. In addition, Georg Heinrich Thyssen-Bornemisza (who is the Chairman of the board of directors of TBG), along with the trustees of a new trust for his benefit, would have the power to exert significant influence over the management and affairs of TBG, including through electing or replacing members of the TBG board of directors. Georg Heinrich Thyssen-Bornemisza and these trustees may have interests that conflict with yours. Under Delaware law, the directors of a corporation owe fiduciary duties to all stockholders of the corporation, not just to the controlling stockholders. In addition, a majority of our board of directors is “independent” of management, as defined by the New York Stock Exchange rules and regulations. However, in light of the significant control that Urvanos Investments Limited, the Class B stockholder, will have over all matters requiring stockholder approval (including the election of directors), no assurances can be provided that these protections will prevent actions that may be viewed as adverse to the Class A stockholders. Shares eligible for future sale could depress the price of our shares. Sales of substantial amounts of the Class A common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of the shares. As of November 30, 2006, we had 45,042,232 shares of Class A common stock and 13,750,000 shares of Class B common stock outstanding. As of November 30, 2006, our principal stockholders together own an aggregate of 10,210,250 shares of Class A common stock and all of the shares of Class B common stock. Our principal stockholders will be entitled to require us to register such shares under the Securities Act in some cases, subject to the lock-up agreements described below. In addition, investment entities affiliated with General Atlantic own 4,687,500 shares of Class A common stock. The sale by us, our principal stockholders, or General Atlantic of additional shares of Class A common stock in the public market, the perception that such sales might occur, or the conversion of shares of Class B common stock into Class A common stock, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our shares. 21 The General Atlantic entities have agreed with us and our principal stockholders, subject to limited exceptions, not to sell or otherwise dispose of any shares of our common stock purchased in the private placement from the principal stockholders without our prior written consent until November 2007. Upon the expiration or waiver of this lock-up period, a significant number of shares of our common stock could become freely tradable, which could depress the market price of our shares. The price of our Class A common stock may be volatile and may be affected by market conditions beyond our control. Our share price is likely to fluctuate in the future because of the volatility of the stock market in general and a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: · quarterly variations in actual or anticipated results of our operations; · changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; · actions or announcements by us or our competitors; · regulatory actions; · litigation; · loss or gain of a major customer or content provider; · additions or departures of key personnel; and · future sales of our Class A common stock. Market fluctuations could result in volatility in the price of shares of our Class A common stock, which could cause a decline in the value of your investment. In addition, if our operating results fail to meet the expectations of stock analysts or investors, we may experience an immediate and significant decline in the trading price of our Class A common stock. Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. Certain provisions in our governing documents could make a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest involving us difficult, even if such events would be beneficial to the interests of our stockholders. These provisions include our dual class structure, our classified board, our supermajority voting requirements, and our adoption of a rights agreement, commonly known as a “poison pill.” In addition, we are subject to certain Delaware anti-takeover provisions. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. Accordingly, our board of directors could rely upon these or other provisions in our governing documents and upon Delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. 22 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 