ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, future performance and forward-looking statements are affected by general industry and market conditions and growth rates, general U.S. and non-U.S. economic and political conditions (including the global economy), competition, interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations and other events. The following items are representative of the risks, uncertainties and other conditions that may impact our business, future performance and the forward-looking statements that we make in this report or that we may make in the future. Risks Related to our Business, Products and Markets We may need additional capital to fund our future operations and we may not be able to obtain the amount of capital required, particularly when the credit and capital markets are volatile. During Fiscal 2010, we issued an aggregate of $6,685,486 of Series A Convertible Preferred stock and incurred $1,080,000 of bridge financing to help address our immediate short-term liquidity needs, fund prior operating losses and provide capital to support business operations. In addition, during June 2009 we converted certain accounts payable totaling approximately $1.4 million to long-term debt, amended our working capital financing agreement and negotiated concessions with certain of our accounts payable creditors with regard to payment timing and amounts due. (See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation – Liquidity and Capital Resources, and Note 3– Current and Long Term Debt – Long Term Debt and Note 10 – Stockhold ers’ Equity in the accompanying Notes to Financial Statements for additional details.) In May and June 2010, we issued $6,800,000 in three-year subordinated secured convertible notes to help address our liquidity requirements, refinance certain obligations and provide funding for future operations. We may require additional capital to support our business, cover operational expenses, and finance planned growth. It is possible that none of our outstanding warrants and options will be exercised and we will therefore not receive additional capital from these sources. We may need to issue equity, debt, or securities convertible into equity, which are likely to rank senior to our common stock and to dilute the current stock ownership in AeroGrow. If we are unable to raise additional capital, or cannot raise capital on acceptable terms, we may not have sufficient capital to operate our business as planned and would have to modify our business plan or curtail some or all of our operations. Because we have a limited operating history, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve profitability. We have a limited operating history upon which to base an evaluation of our prospects and the potential value of our common stock. Since commencing operations in 2002, we have not achieved profitability in any fiscal year. We are confronted with the risks inherent in an early stage company, including difficulties and delays in connection with the production and sales of our indoor garden systems, reliance on a small number of products and manufacturers, operational difficulties, and difficulty in estimating future sales, production requirements and costs, and administrative costs. If we cannot successfully manage our business, we may not be able to generate future profits and may not be able to support our operations. We are likely to incur additional expenses and losses in the further implementation of our business plan. We may not be able to improve operations and therefore may never become profitable. We have incurred substantial losses since inception and may never achieve profitability. Since we commenced operations in 2002, and through March 31, 2010, we incurred substantial losses, including a net loss of $6,331,205 for the twelve month period ended March 31, 2010. As of March 31, 2010, our losses have resulted in an accumulated deficit of $56,272,803. The future success of our business will depend on our ability to profitably expand sales of our AeroGarden indoor garden systems, seed kits and accessory products to consumers, and develop new product extensions and applications. We are subject to many of the risks common to developing enterprises, including undercapitalization, cash shortages, limitations with respect to financial and other resources, and insufficient scale to be self-sustaining. There is no assurance that we will ever attain profitability. 9 Table of Contents A worsening of the United States economy could materially adversely affect our business. The success of our business operations depends significantly on consumer confidence and spending, which deteriorated during the recent worldwide economic downturn. A continuation or re-occurrence of the economic downturn, and the consequent impact on consumer spending, could adversely impact our revenue, ability to market our products, build customer loyalty, or otherwise implement our business strategy. If the current economic situation persists, or deteriorates significantly, our business could be negatively impacted. Our sales to retailer customers are highly concentrated in a small number of retailers in the United States and Canada, including traditional “brick and mortar” retailers, online retailers, and television shopping channels. The loss of one or more of these customers could have a material adverse impact on our business. In the fiscal years ended March 31, 2010, and March 31, 2009, approximately 40.1% and 60.9%, respectively, of our net sales were to retailer customers. Of these sales, approximately 69% represented sales to our top four retailer customers. The loss of one or more of our key retailer customers, or a significant decline in orders from one or more of these retailers could materially affect our sales of indoor garden systems, seed kits and accessories, and therefore have a material adverse impact on our business and our financial results. We have recently shifted the focus of our business strategy toward the direct-to-consumer sales channels. Failure to successfully develop our position in these channels could have an adverse impact on our future results of operations. On January 15, 2010, we announced a strategic shift to increase our focus on the direct-to-consumer business channels. We intend to dedicate a larger proportion of our capital and human resources to develop these channels. Successfully growing these channels will require that we invest in revenue-generating media to attract new customers, effectively target our marketing messages to consumers, and develop ongoing relationships with consumers through excellence in our fulfillment, shipping and customer service operations. There can be no assurances given that we will be successful in achieving these requirements, or that we can do so on a timely basis. In the event we do not succeed in developing the direct-to-consumer channels as we intend, there could be a material adverse impact on our future results of operations. A significant portion of our sales are to retailers, many of which have been adversely impacted by the deterioration in economic conditions and the consequent impact on consumer spending. In the fiscal years ended March 31, 2010, and March 31, 2009, approximately 40.1% and 60.9%, respectively, of our net sales were to retailer customers. Our business plan anticipates continued sales through this distribution channel, albeit at lower levels than in prior years. Uncertainty about the current and future global economic conditions may cause consumers and retailers to defer purchases, attempt to return inventory, or cancel purchase orders for our products in response to tighter credit, decreased cash availability and declining consumer confidence. In the event that certain retailers are adversely impacted by the current economic downturn, re-structure their business operations to reduce costs and capital investment, or choose to reduce the breadth of their product offering, our sales co uld be adversely affected. Our future depends on the success of our indoor garden systems, seed kits and accessory products. We do not know if our indoor garden systems, seed kits and accessory products will generate consumer acceptance on a broader scale. We have introduced our indoor garden systems and seed kits as new products to consumer markets unfamiliar with their use and benefits. Although we believe that we have penetrated only a small portion of the potential market for our products, we cannot be certain that our products will generate widespread consumer adoption. If consumers do not purchase our products in sufficient numbers, we will not be profitable. If we are unable to recruit, train and retain key personnel necessary to operate our business, our ability to successfully manage our business and develop and market our products may be harmed. 10 Table of Contents To maintain our business position, we will need to attract, retain, and motivate highly skilled design, development, management, accounting, sales, merchandising, marketing, and customer service personnel. Competition for many of these types of personnel can be intense, depending on general economic conditions, alternative employment options, and job location. As a result, we may be unable to successfully attract or retain qualified personnel. Additionally, any of our officers or employees can terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of any key employee, or our inability to attract or retain other qualified employees, could harm our business and results of operations. As a result of the economic downturn, decline in consumer spending and the consequent impact on the sales of our products, we restructured our operations and implemented a substantial workforce reduction. These actions could adversely impact the morale and performance of our remaining employees and our ability to hire new personnel. Our business was adversely impacted by the deterioration in the global economy and the consequent impact on our various channels of distribution. We restructured our business operations in order to re-size our overhead costs and streamline our distribution, fulfillment, and manufacturing operations. This resulted in a substantial decrease in the number of our full-time employees. These restructuring actions and headcount reductions could have unintended impacts on our remaining employees, could lead to a decline in employee morale, and could lead to a loss of additional personnel over and above the level desired by the Company. In the event of such employee attrition, we may not be able to replace the lost personnel on a timely basis, or with individuals having the same level of skills. In either case, our operations and our financial performance could be adversely impacted. Our marketing strategies may not be successful, which would adversely affect our future revenue and profitability. Our future revenue and profitability depend on the successful marketing of our indoor garden systems. We cannot give assurance that consumers will continue to be interested in purchasing our products. We use direct consumer marketing, including television commercials, infomercials, catalogue, magazine and newspaper advertising, and the Internet. In addition, we collaborate with our retailer customers to market our products to consumers. If our marketing strategies fail to attract an adequate number of customers, our product sales will not produce future revenue sufficient to meet our operating expenses or fund our future operations. Our current or future manufacturers could fail to fulfill our orders for indoor garden systems, which would disrupt our business, increase our costs, and could potentially cause us to lose our market. We currently depend on three contract manufacturers in China to produce our indoor garden systems. These manufacturers could fail to produce the indoor garden system to our specifications or in a workmanlike manner and may not deliver the systems on a timely basis. Our manufacturers must also obtain inventories of the necessary parts and tools for production. We own the tools and dies used by our manufacturers. Our manufacturers operate in China and may be subject to business risks that fall outside our control, including but not limited to, political, currency, and regulatory risks, each of which may affect the manufacturer’s ability to fulfill our orders for indoor garden systems. In addition, weather or natural disasters in China could disrupt our supply of product. Any change in manufacturers could disrupt ou r ability to fulfill orders for indoor garden systems. Any change in manufacturers could disrupt our business due to delays in finding a new manufacturer, providing specifications, and testing initial production. Our revenue and level of business activity are highly seasonal, requiring us to staff our operations, incur overhead and marketing costs, purchase and manufacture inventory, and incur other operating costs in advance of having firm customer orders for our products. A material variance in actual orders relative to anticipated orders could have an adverse impact on our business. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010, approximately 56% of our total net sales occurred during four calendar months (September – December). We must estimate sales in advance of these peak months and operate our business during the balance of the year in such a way as to insure that we can meet the demand for our products during the peak months. This requires us to incur significant operating, marketing, and overhead expenses, and to utilize cash and other capital resources to invest in inventory in advance of having certainty as to the ultimate level of demand for our product during the peak months. Significant variations in actual demand for our products during the peak months relative to our forecast could result in our sales being limited by lack of product, our not achieving a suffic ient level of sales to cover expenses incurred throughout the balance of the year, or in our having excess inventory to liquidate at potentially lower margins. In any of these cases, there could be a material adverse impact on our financial performance. 11 Table of Contents We are highly reliant upon a single company-operated distribution and seed kit manufacturing facility. Any material disruption to the operation of this facility could adversely affect our business. In July 2008 we opened a company-operated distribution and fulfillment center in Indianapolis, Indiana to supplement our existing third-party logistics providers. Since then, our facility in Indianapolis has become our primary distribution and fulfillment center for the United States and Canada, with the majority of our shipment volume handled through this facility in our fiscal year ended March 31, 2010. In February 2009 we re-located our seed kit manufacturing operations to the facility in Indianapolis from its previous location in Longmont, Colorado. We now manufacture all of our seed kits in the Indianapolis facility. Any material disruption to the operation of this facility, whether caused by internal or external factors, could have a material adverse impact on our business and fin ancial performance. We rely on third party providers in our manufacturing, warehouse, distribution, order processing, and fulfillment operations. If these parties are unwilling to continue providing services to us, or are unable to adequately perform such services for us on a cost effective basis, our business could be materially harmed. We engage third parties to perform certain critical functions supporting our business operations. Any disruption in our relationship with any of our vendors could cause significant disruption to our business and we may not be able to locate another party that can provide comparable services in a timely manner or on acceptable commercial terms. In addition, no assurance can be made that these relationships will be adequate to support our business as we follow our business plan. Our intellectual property and proprietary rights give us only limited protection, and can be expensive to defend. Our ability to produce and sell indoor garden systems exclusively depends in part on securing patent protection for the components of our systems, maintaining various trademarks, and protecting our operational trade secrets. To protect our proprietary technology, we rely on a combination of patents pending (and if granted, patents), trade secrets, and non-disclosure agreements, each of which affords only limited protection. We own the rights to 18 United States and international patent applications, three of which have been issued in the United States and three of which have issued internationally. However, the remaining patent applications may not result in issued patents and even issued patents may be challenged. We are selling our indoor garden systems prior to receiving issued patents relating to our patent applica tions. All of our intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented. Claims for infringement may be asserted or prosecuted against us in the future and we may not be able to protect our patents, if any more are obtained, and intellectual property rights against others. Our former employees or consultants may violate their non-disclosure agreements, leading to a loss of proprietary intellectual property. We could also incur substantial costs to assert our intellectual property or proprietary rights against others. We may face significant competition, and if we are unable to compete effectively, our sales may be adversely affected. We believe that our complete indoor garden systems offer significant benefits over traditional hydroponic industry products. There are companies in a variety of related markets including but not limited to, consumer electronics, commercial hydroponics, gardening wholesale, and soil-based gardening that are larger, better funded, have more recognizable brand names, and have experience in our channels of distribution. These companies could potentially decide to develop products to compete with our products. These companies could use hydroponic technologies, and could achieve better consumer acceptance. The success of any competing products may adversely impact us. Increases in energy prices, resulting from general economic conditions, or other factors, may raise our cost of goods sold and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Energy costs, especially gasoline and fuel costs, are significant expenses in the delivery of our products. Increased costs resulting from general economic conditions, acts of nature, or other factors, may result in declining margins and operating results if market conditions prevent us from passing these increased costs on to our customers through timely price increases on our products. 12 Table of Contents Our current or future manufacturers are located in China and therefore our product costs may be subject to fluctuations in the value of the dollar against the Chinese currency. Although we purchase our AeroGarden products in U.S. dollars, the prices charged by our factories are predicated upon their cost for components, labor and overhead. Therefore, changes in the valuation of the U.S. dollar in relation to the Chinese currency may cause our manufacturers to raise prices of our products which could reduce our profit margins. If our indoor garden systems fail to perform properly, our business could suffer with increased costs and reduced income. We have sold more than 958,000 AeroGardens since our inception and have provided a limited warranty with each garden sold. In addition, our indoor garden systems are “guaranteed to grow.” We therefore may be required to replace or repair products or refund the purchase price to consumers. Failure of our products to meet expectations could damage our reputation, decrease sales, increase costs related to returns and repairs, delay market acceptance of our products, result in unpaid accounts receivable, and divert our resources to remedy the malfunctions. The occurrence of any of these events would have an adverse impact on our results of operations. From time to time, we may be subject to litigation that, if decided adversely to us, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. From time to time, we are a party to various litigation matters, in most cases involving ordinary and routine claims incidental to our business. We cannot estimate with certainty our ultimate legal and financial liability with respect to any such pending litigation matters. However, we believe, based on our examination of such matters, that our ultimate liability, if any, will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In connection with the Linens ‘N Things (“LNT”) bankruptcy proceedings, a Complaint to Avoid and Recover Preferential Transfers was filed by LNT in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware on April 20, 2009 (the “Complaint”). The Complaint alleges that, pursuant to Sections 547 and 550 of the United States Bankruptcy Code, we are required to return to LNT approximately $623,000 in “preferential” transfers allegedly made to AeroGrow during the 90-day period preceding the filing of the LNT bankruptcy cases. The Complaint also alleges that AeroGrow is required to pay to LNT approximately $44,000 on account of credits allegedly earned but not redeemed by LNT prior to the filing of the LNT bankruptcy cases. We negotiated a settlement of all claims w ith LNT, executed a settlement agreement, and are now awaiting final approval of the settlement by the bankruptcy court. We do not anticipate there will be any material change to the terms of the executed settlement agreement, and the cost to us of the settlement is less than the amount previously accrued in our balance sheet and consolidated statement of operations in anticipation of the cost of defending, or settling, this matter. Risks Related to the Market for our Securities The market price of our shares may fluctuate greatly. Investors in AeroGrow bear the risk that they will not recover their investment. Effective as of May 4, 2009, our common stock ceased to be listed on The Nasdaq Stock Market and is now traded on the OTC Bulletin Board. Currently, trading in our common stock is limited, and the price per share is likely to be influenced by the price at which and the amount of shares the selling security holders are attempting to sell at any time. This could have the effect of limiting the trading price or lowering the market price to the selling security holders’ offering prices. Common stock such as ours may be subject to the activities of persons engaged in short selling securities, which generally has the effect of driving the price down. In addition, the common stock of emerging growth companies is typically subject to high price and volume volatility. Therefore, the price of our comm on stock has fluctuated, and may continue to fluctuate, widely. A full and stable trading market for our common stock may never develop and, as a result, stockholders may not be able to sell their shares at the time they elect, if at all. 13 Table of Contents There may be substantial sales of our common stock by existing security holders which could cause the price of our stock to fall. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market or the perception that such sales might occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and could impair the value of an investment in our common stock and our ability to raise equity capital in the future. Sales of our common stock by security holders, or even the appearance that such holders may make such sales, may limit the market for our common stock or depress any trading market volume and price before other investors are able to sell the common stock. Moreover, a number of shareholders have held their investment for a substantial period of time and may desire to sell their shares, which could drive down the price of our common stock. We can issue debt securities and shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could adversely affect the rights of common stockholders. Our Articles of Incorporation allow our Board of Directors to approve the terms and conditions of debt securities and preferred stock for issuance by the Company, including but not limited to voting rights, conversion privileges and liquidation preferences, without the approval of common stockholders. The rights of the holders of our common stock may be adversely impacted as a result of the rights that could potentially be granted to holders of debt securities or preferred stock that we may issue in the future. In addition, there could be an impact on the price of our common stock because of the potential impact on the rights of common shareholders resulting from future issuances of debt or preferred stock. Our outstanding warrants, options and additional future obligations to issue our securities to various parties, may dilute the value of an investment in AeroGrow and may adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital. As of March 31, 2010, we were committed to issue up to 68,191,852 additional shares of common stock under the terms of outstanding warrants, options and other arrangements as detailed in Note 5 – Equity Compensation Plans and Note 9 – Stockholders’ Equity in the accompanying Notes to Financial Statements. In addition, during Fiscal 2010 we issued an aggregate of 7,586 shares of Series A Convertible Preferred stock giving the holders the right to convert their preferred shares into a total of 37,930,000 common shares of AeroGrow. The preferred shareholders also received 4,164 warrants to purchase additional preferred shares that could be converted into 20,820,000 shares of AeroGrow common stock. Furthermore, during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010, we incurred $1,080,000 in bridge financing in which we also issued warrants to purchase an additional 1,080,000 shares of AeroGrow common stock. In addition, during May and June 2010, we issued $6,800,000 in secured subordinated convertible notes that can convert to 68,000,000 shares of common stock, and issued 68,000,000 warrants to purchase shares o f common stock. See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition – Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 9 – Stockholders’ Equity in the accompanying Notes to Financial Statements). For the length of time the warrants, options and preferred shares are outstanding, the holders will have an opportunity to profit from a rise in the market price of our common stock without assuming all the risks of common share ownership. This may adversely affect the terms upon which we can obtain additional capital. The holders of such derivative securities would likely exercise or convert them at a time when we would be able to obtain equity capital on terms more favorable than the exercise or conversion prices provided by the notes, warrants or options. Further, future sales of substantial amounts of these shares, or the perception that such sales might occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and could impair the value of an investment in our common stock and our ability to raise equity capital in the future. During Fiscal 2010, we issued an aggregate of $6,685,486 Series A Convertible Preferred securities. During May and June 2010 we issued $6,800,000 of subordinated secured convertible notes. The terms and conditions of these securities could significantly impact the price of our common shares, and could adversely impact our ability to raise additional equity capital. 14 Table of Contents The holders of our Series A Convertible Preferred shares (the “Preferred Shareholders”) have the right to convert each of their shares and warrants into 5,000 common shares of AeroGrow. In addition, the Preferred Shareholders have the right to vote their shares on an as-converted basis on all matters voted on by common shareholders. The Preferred Shareholders also have the right to elect three Directors of AeroGrow, voting as a separate class. As a result of these rights, the Preferred Shareholders have effective control over AeroGrow and its governance. In addition, the Preferred Shareholders possess certain rights that give them preferences relative to common shareholders in the event of a sale or liquidation of the Company. It is possible that the Preferred Sharehol ders could take actions that could adversely impact the value of investments in common shares of the Company. In addition, the control position of the Preferred Shareholders, as well as other anti-dilution rights held by the Preferred Shareholders, could adversely impact our ability to raise capital in the future. The holders of our subordinated secured convertible notes have the right to convert the notes at a conversion price of $0.10 per share of our common stock at any time during the three-year life of the notes. (For more detail on the Series A Convertible Preferred securities and the subordinated secured convertible notes, see Item 7 - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition – Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 9 – Stockholders’ Equity in the accompanying Notes to Financial Statements.) If an exemption from registration on which we have relied for any of our past offerings of common stock or warrants is challenged legally, our principals may have to spend time defending claims, and we would then risk paying expenses for defense, rescission, and/or regulatory sanctions. To raise working capital, we offered common stock and warrants in private transactions that we believed to be exempt from registration under the Securities Act and state securities laws. In 2004 we conducted a state-registered offering in Colorado of common stock and warrants, intended to be exempt from registration under the Securities Act as an intrastate offering. However, because we are incorporated in Nevada, the offering did not satisfy all of the requirements for an intrastate offering. This could result in investors or regulators asserting that the Colorado offering and/or private offerings subsequent to the Colorado offering (if the private offerings were integrated with the Colorado offering) violated the Securities Act. There can be no assurance that investors or regulators will not be successful in asserting a claim t hat these transactions should not be integrated. In the event that one or more investors seeks rescission, with resulting return of investment funds and interest at a market rate, or that state or federal regulators seeks sanctions against us or our principals, we would spend time and financial resources to pay expenses for defense, rescission awards, or regulatory sanctions. The use of funds would reduce the capital available to operate our business. No assurance can be given regarding the outcome of any such actions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 