Item 1A. Risk Factors. The Company’s stockholders and any potential investor in the Company’s Common Stock should carefully review and consider each of the following risk factors, as well as all other information appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, relating to investment in our Common Stock. The Company’s business faces numerous risks and uncertainties, the most significant of which are described below. If any of the following risks actually occur, the business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows of the Company could be materially adversely affected, the market price of the Company’s Common Stock could decline significantly, and a stockholder could lose all or part of an investment in the Company’s Common Stock. The Company has two clients which account for a substantial portion of its business. Revenue from one will likely stop by the end of 2013 and revenue from the other will likely continue to decline. Our two largest clients, HealthSmart Preferred Care, Inc. (together with its affiliates, “HealthSmart”) and MultiPlan, Inc., formerly Viant Holdings, Inc., (together with its affiliates, “Viant”), accounted for an aggregate of approximately 39% of our net revenue during 2012; of which 31% was derived from HealthSmart. In 2011, our two largest clients accounted for 54% of our net revenue, of which 34% was generated from HealthSmart. The loss of either one of these clients or significant declines in the level of use of our services by one or more of these clients (as would be the case, for example, if our clients decide to contract directly with ancillary healthcare service providers), without replacement by new business, would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. Our 2012 revenue from HealthSmart and Viant declined by an aggregate of 49% from its 2011 level.The client contract with Viant expired on May 20, 2012 but automatically renewed for a one-year period and renews for successive one-year periods unless either party delivers a written notice of non-renewal at least 90 days prior to expiration. Since the Company has not received written notice of non-renewal, the contract term has been automatically extended through May 20, 2013. In addition, in March 2010, Viant was acquired by MultiPlan, Inc., a provider of PPO network and related transaction-based solutions. At this time, MultiPlan began methodically moving its payor client groups to its existing networks. Revenue from Viant has declined as its business has been integrated with its acquiror, which was complete at December 31, 2012. We don't expect significant revenue or claims volume from the account in 2013. On December 31, 2012, the Company and HealthSmart entered into a three-year agreement to continue and expand the partnership between the two organizations. Under the agreement, the Company will enhance its network of ancillary service providers to address markets outside of the commercial group health space and it will utilize an administrative fee rate differential to encourage HealthSmart to add payors that will access the Company network of ancillary providers. However, although our relationship with HealthSmart will continue, our agreement does not provide that we are their exclusive ancillary care network and they could engage other ancillary care providers directly into their network. Accordingly, we cannot be certain of any level of continued volume from HealthSmart. As part of the new agreement, the agreement between the parties dated August 1, 2002, as amended through December 31, 2008, was terminated. The Company’s failure to maintain the relationship with HealthSmart could have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations. Additionally, an adverse change in the financial condition of HealthSmart, including an adverse change as a result of a change in governmental or private reimbursement programs, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.Recent and pending healthcare reforms could materially adversely affect our revenues, financial position and our results of operations. The enactment and implementation of healthcare reforms at the federal or state level may affect certain aspects of our business, including contracting with ancillary healthcare service providers; administrative, technology or other costs; provider reimbursement methods and payment rates; premium rates; coverage determinations; mandated benefits; minimum medical expenditures; claim payments and processing; drug utilization and patient safety efforts; collection, use, disclosure, maintenance and disposal of individually identifiable health information; personal health records; consumer-driven health plans and health savings accounts and insurance market reforms; and government-sponsored programs.During 2010, President Obama signed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the "Affordable Care Act") and the Health Care and Educational Affordability Reconciliation Act legislating broad-based changes to the U.S. healthcare system. Among other things, the health reform legislation includes insurance industry reforms including, but not limited to guaranteed coverage requirements, elimination of pre-existing condition exclusions and annual and lifetime maximum limits, and restrictions on the extent to which policies can be rescinded; creation of new market mechanisms through the creation of health benefit exchanges; and creation of new and significant taxes on health insurers and, in some circumstances healthcare benefits.11Table of ContentsIn December 2010, HHS published final MLR regulations and agency guidance, based upon the recommendations of the NAIC, implementing the new sections of the Public Health Service Act as mandated by the Affordable Care Act. The new regulations apply to issuers offering group or individual health insurance coverage. Under the MLR regulations, an issuer's MLR is calculated as the ratio of (i) incurred claims plus expenditures for activities that improve health care quality to (ii) premium revenue. The two key aspects to this calculation involve what comprises an 'incurred claim' and what qualifies as an 'expenditure for health care quality improvement.' It is possible that a portion of the fees our existing and prospective payors are contractually required to pay us and that do not qualify as 'incurred claims' may not be included as expenditures for activities that improve health care quality. Such a determination may make it more difficult for us to retain existing clients and/or add new clients, because our clients' or prospective clients' MLR may otherwise not meet the specified targets. This may reduce our net revenues and profit margins.Other provisions of the health reform legislation become effective at various dates over the next several years. The HHS, the Department of Labor and the Treasury Department have yet to issue some of the necessary enabling regulations and guidance with respect to the health care reform legislation. Due to the breadth and complexity of the health reform legislation, the scope of implementing regulations and interpretive guidance, in addition to regulations and guidance yet to be issued, and the phased-in nature of the implementation, it is difficult to predict the overall impact of the health reform legislation on our business over the coming years. Possible adverse affects of the health reform legislation include reduced revenues, increased costs, exposure to expanded liability, and requirements for us to revise the ways in which we conduct business or risk of loss of business. In addition, our results of operations, our financial position and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.The Company has a history of losses. With the exception of the three years from 2008 to 2010, the Company has incurred losses in each year of its existence. As of December 31, 2012, the Company has an accumulated deficit of approximately $11.3 million. The Company will need to return to levels of claims volume and revenue as it had in 2008 through 2010 in order to return to profitability. With the decline in revenues from its two largest clients, and with less than equivalent increases from other clients, we cannot determine when or if the Company can return to profitability. No assurances can be given that the Company's current operating volumes will not continue to decline in the future. The Company’s prospects must be considered in light of the numerous risks, expenses, delays and difficulties frequently encountered in an industry characterized by intense competition, as well as the risks inherent in the development of new programs and the commercialization of new services. Management is exploring alternative strategies for either expanding our available services or identifying other business opportunities that could enhance our performance. Any such efforts could prove to be costly and may not necessarily lead to increased revenue or profitability. The length of the current sales cycle may impede the Company's efforts to add new client accounts.During 2010, the Company sold 13 new accounts, which accounted for $12.4 million or 35% of net revenue in 2012. During 2011 and 2012, our sales cycle lengthened and we sold only four and six new accounts, respectively. The sales cycle was negatively impacted by the competitive nature of negotiating with TPA's and direct payors, turnover in our sales and marketing function, the obtrusive nature of our implementation process and prospects' conflicting priorities, primarily related to technology compliance projects. Despite efforts to strategically improve our sales and marketing function, we can give no assurances that it will not continue to be a lengthy process to convert a sales prospect into a new client account and that our revenues will not continue to decline due to the lack of new client accounts.The current state of the global economy may reduce our revenue and profitability and harm our growth prospects. The Company's results have been impacted by the state of the economy during the past three years. First, the unemployment rate has caused fewer people to participate in insurance programs with our clients. Second, plan participants, seeking to spend less money, appear to be making less frequent use of some ancillary services. Third, client consolidation within our industry has adversely affected our business. Fourth, the uncertainty surrounding healthcare reform is negatively impacting healthcare spending patterns. To the extent that these trends continue, or become worse, we may receive less revenue and our profitability and growth could be adversely affected, depending on the extent of the declines. Finally, as with any business, the deterioration of the financial condition or sale or change of control of our significant clients and/or providers could have a corresponding adverse effect on us.12Table of ContentsLarge competitors in the healthcare industry could choose to compete with us, reducing our margins. Some of these potential competitors may be our current clients. Traditional health insurance companies, specialty provider networks, and specialty healthcare services companies are potential competitors of the Company. These entities include well-established companies that may have greater financial, marketing and technological resources than we have. Pricing pressure caused by competition has caused many of these companies to reduce the prices charged to clients for core services and to pass on to clients a larger portion of the formulary fees and related revenues received from service providers. Increased price competition from such companies’ entry into the market could reduce our margins and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In fact, our clients could choose to establish their own network of ancillary care providers. As a result, we would not only lose the benefit of revenue from such clients, but we could face additional competition in our market.The Company is dependent upon payments from third party payors who may reduce rates of reimbursement. The Company’s ability to achieve profitability depends on payments provided by third-party payors. Competition for patients, efforts by traditional third party payors to contain or reduce healthcare costs and the increasing influence of managed care payors, such as health maintenance organizations, have resulted in reduced rates of reimbursement in recent years. If continuing, these trends could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations unless it can implement measures to offset the loss of revenues and decreased profitability. In addition, changes in reimbursement policies of private and governmental third-party payors, including policies relating to the Medicare and Medicaid programs, could reduce the amounts reimbursed to the Company’s clients for the Company’s services provided through the Company, and consequently, the amount these clients would be willing to pay for the Company’s services. Also, under the MLR regulations included in the Affordable Care Act, it is possible that a portion of the fees our existing and prospective payors are contractually required to pay us and that do not qualify as 'incurred claims' may not be included as expenditures for activities that improve health care quality. Such a determination may make it more difficult for us to retain existing clients and/or add new clients, because our clients' or prospective clients' MLR may otherwise not meet the specified targets. This may reduce our net revenues and profit margins. The Company is dependent upon its network of qualified providers and its provider agreements may be terminated at any time. The development of a network of qualified providers is an essential component of our business strategy. The typical form of agreement from ancillary healthcare providers provides that these agreements may be terminated at any time by either party with or without cause. If these agreements are terminated, specifically with one of our significant provider relationships, such ancillary healthcare providers could enter into new agreements with our competitors which would have an adverse effect on our ability to continue our business as it is currently conducted.For any given claim, the Company is subject to the risk of paying more to the provider than it receives from the payor. The Company’s agreements with its payors, on the one hand, and the service providers, on the other, are negotiated separately. The Company has complete discretion in negotiating both the prices it charges its payors and the financial terms of its agreements with the providers. As a result, the Company’s profit is primarily a function of the spread between the prices it has agreed to pay the service providers and the prices the Company’s payors have agreed to pay the Company. The Company bears the pricing/margin risk because it is responsible for providing the agreed-upon services to its payors, whether or not it is able to negotiate fees and other agreement terms with service providers that result in a positive margin for the Company. For example, during 2012 and 2011, approximately 5.5% and 5.1%, respectively, of claims were “loss claims” (that is, where the amount paid by the Company to the provider exceeded the amount received by the Company from the corresponding payor for that particular claim) and these loss claims, in the aggregate, comprised approximately $392,000 and $512,000 in 2012 and 2011, respectively. There can be no assurances that the loss claim percentage will not be higher in future periods. If a higher percentage of the Company’s claims resulted in a loss, its results of operations and financial position would be adversely affected.An interruption of data processing capabilities and telecommunications could negatively impact the Company’s operating results. Our business is dependent upon our ability to store, retrieve, process and manage data and to maintain and upgrade our data processing capabilities. An interruption of data processing capabilities for any extended length of time, loss of stored data, programming errors, other computer problems or interruptions of telephone service could have a material adverse effect on our business. 13Table of ContentsChanges in state and federal regulations could restrict our ability to conduct our business. Numerous state and federal laws and regulations affect our business and operations. These laws and regulations include, but are not necessarily limited to:•Public Health Services Act, Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and Health Care and Educational Affordability Reconciliation Act; •healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations, which prohibit illegal referral and other payments;•the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 and related regulations, which regulate many healthcare plans;•mail pharmacy laws and regulations;•privacy and confidentiality laws and regulations;•consumer protection laws and regulations;•legislation imposing benefit plan design restrictions;•various licensure laws, such as managed care and third party administrator licensure laws;•drug pricing legislation;•Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement regulations; and•Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996. We believe we are operating our business in substantial compliance with all existing legal requirements material to the operation of our business. There are, however, significant uncertainties regarding the application of many of these legal requirements to our business, and there cannot be any assurance that a regulatory agency charged with enforcement of any of these laws or regulations will not interpret them differently or, if there is an enforcement action, that our interpretation would prevail. If the Company fails to comply with the requirements of HIPAA, it could face sanctions and penalties. HIPAA provides safeguards to ensure the integrity and confidentiality of health information. Violation of the standards is punishable by fines and, in the case of wrongful disclosure of individually identifiable health information, fines or imprisonment, or both. Although we provide thorough training to our employees and we intend to comply with all applicable laws and regulations regarding medical information privacy, failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our business.Limited barriers to entry into the ancillary healthcare services market could result in greater competition. There are limited barriers to entering our market, meaning that it is relatively easy for other companies to replicate our business model and provide the same or similar services that we currently provide. Major benefit management companies and healthcare companies not presently offering ancillary healthcare services may decide to enter the market. These companies may have greater financial, marketing and other resources than are available to us. Competition from other companies may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The Company may be unsuccessful in hiring and retaining skilled employees. The future growth of our business depends on our ability to hire and retain skilled employees. The Company may be unable to hire and retain the skilled employees needed to succeed in our business. Qualified employees are in great demand throughout the healthcare industry. Our failure to attract and retain sufficient skilled employees may limit the rate at which our business can grow, which will result in harm to our financial performance. 14Table of ContentsAn inability to adequately protect our intellectual property could harm the Company’s competitive position. We consider our methodologies, processes and know-how to be proprietary. We seek to protect our proprietary information through confidentiality agreements with our employees, as well as our clients and contracted service providers. The Company’s policy is to have its employees enter into a confidentiality agreement at the time employment begins, with the confidentiality agreement containing provisions prohibiting the employee from disclosing our confidential information to anyone outside of the Company, requiring the employee to acknowledge, and, if requested, assist in confirming the Company’s ownership of new ideas, developments, discoveries or inventions conceived by the employee during his or her employment with the Company, and requiring the assignment by the employee to the Company of proprietary rights to such matters that are related to our business. There can be no assurance that the steps taken by the Company to protect its intellectual property will be successful. If the Company does not adequately protect its intellectual property, its competitors may be able to use its technologies and erode or negate the Company’s competitive advantage in the market.Fluctuations in the number and types of claims processed by the Company could make it more difficult to predict the Company’s net revenues from quarter to quarter. Monthly fluctuations in the number of claims we process and the types of claims we process will impact the quarterly and annual results of the Company. Our margins vary depending on the type of ancillary healthcare service provided, the rates associated with those services and the overall mix of these claims, each of which will impact our profitability. Consequently, it may be difficult to predict our net revenue from one quarter to another quarter. Future sales of the Company’s Common Stock, or the perception that these sales may occur, could depress the price of the Company’s Common Stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our Common Stock, or the perception in the public that such sales may occur, could cause the market price of the Company’s Common Stock to decline. This could also impair the Company’s ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. As of February 25, 2013, the Company had 5,706,443 shares of its Common Stock outstanding. The outstanding shares are either freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act, unless the shares are held by one of our “affiliates” as such term is defined in Rule 144 of the Securities Act, or are “restricted shares” as that term is defined under the Securities Act, and may be sold from time to time pursuant to a registration statement which was declared effective on February 8, 2007 by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), or in reliance upon an exemption from registration available under the Securities Act. At February 25, 2013, warrants to purchase 44,444 shares of Common Stock of the Company were outstanding, and options to purchase 792,628 shares of Common Stock of the Company had been granted and were outstanding under the Company’s Amended and Restated 2005 Stock Option Plan and the 2009 Equity Incentive Plan. At February 25, 2013, restricted stock units (“RSUs”) relating to 4,440 shares of common stock were outstanding under our 2009 Equity Incentive Plan. In addition, an aggregate of 493,788 shares of the Common Stock of the Company remain available for future grants of RSUs, options and other equity under the Company’s Amended and Restated 2005 Stock Option Plan and 2009 Equity Incentive Plan. If all of the outstanding warrants are exercised, all options available under the Company’s Amended and Restated 2005 Stock Option Plan and 2009 Equity Incentive Plan are issued and exercised and all RSUs are converted, there will be approximately 7,041,743 shares of Common Stock of the Company outstanding.Some of our existing stockholders can exert control over us and may not make decisions that further the best interests of all stockholders. As of February 25, 2013, our officers, directors and principal stockholders (greater than 5% stockholders) together control beneficially approximately 48.9% of the outstanding Common Stock of the Company. As a result, these stockholders, if they act individually or together, may exert a significant degree of influence over our management and affairs and over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. Furthermore, the interests of this concentration of ownership may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders and, accordingly, they could cause us to enter into transactions or agreements which we would not otherwise consider. In addition, this concentration of ownership of the Company’s Common Stock may delay or prevent a merger or acquisition resulting in a change in control of the Company and might affect the market price of our Common Stock, even when such a change in control may be in the best interest of all of our stockholders.15Table of ContentsWe are subject to the listing requirements of the NASDAQ Capital Market and there can be no assurances that we will continue to satisfy these listing requirements. Our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market, and we are therefore subject to continued listing requirements, including requirements with respect to the market value of publicly-held shares and minimum bid price per share, among others, and requirements relating to board and audit committee independence. If we fail to satisfy one or more of the requirements, we may be delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market. If we are delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market and we are not able to list our common stock on another exchange, our common stock could be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board or on the “pink sheets”. As a result, we could face significant adverse consequences including, among others, •a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; •a determination that our common stock is a "penny stock" which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly result in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our securities;•a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for us; and•a decreased ability to issue additional securities (including pursuant to short-form registration statements on Form S-3) or obtain additional financing in the future.On September 21, 2011, the Company received a letter from The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC (“NASDAQ”) stating that for 30 consecutive business days immediately preceding the date of the letter the Company's common stock did not maintain a minimum closing bid price of $1.00 per share (“Minimum Bid Price Requirement”) as required by NASDAQ Listing Rule 5550(a)(2). The Company was provided 180 calendar days, or until March 19, 2012, to regain compliance. In a letter dated March 20, 2012, NASDAQ stated that although the Company had not regained compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Requirement by March 19, 2012, it is eligible for an additional 180-day compliance period, or until September 17, 2012, based on the Company meeting the continued listing requirements for market value of publicly held shares and all other applicable standards for initial listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market (except for the Minimum Bid Price Requirement) and having notified NASDAQ of its intention to cure the deficiency during the second compliance period by effecting a reverse stock split, if necessary. At the Company's annual meeting of stockholders, held on June 11, 2012, the stockholders voted to amend the Company's certificate of incorporation for the purposes of effecting a reverse stock split and authorized its Board of Directors to determine, in its sole discretion, whether to effect the amendment, the timing of the amendment, and the specific ratio of the reverse stock split, provided that such ratio is 1-for-2, 1-for-2.5, 1-for-3, 1-for-3.5 or 1-for-4. On August 31, 2012 the Company filed a Certificate of Amendment to its Certificate of Incorporation, as amended (the “Amendment”) to effect a 1-for-3 reverse stock split (“reverse split”) of its common stock, par value $0.01 per share (the “Common Stock”), effective September 4, 2012 (the “Effective Day”). Because the Amendment did not result in a reduction in the number of authorized shares of Common Stock, its effect was to increase the number of shares of Common Stock available for issuance relative to the number of shares issued and outstanding. On the Effective Day, every three shares of the Company's Common Stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Day were automatically combined into one share of Common Stock. Stockholders that were left with a fraction of a share as a result of the reverse split received cash in lieu of the fractional share in an amount based on the closing sale price of the Common Stock on the business day immediately preceding the Effective Day as reported on the The Nasdaq Capital Market. In addition, any options, warrants and restricted stock units outstanding as of the Effective Day were adjusted accordingly. As a result of the reverse split, the Company had 5,706,443 shares of common stock issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2012.On September 18, 2012, the Company received notification from NASDAQ that the Company was in compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Requirement. Nonetheless, there can be no assurances that we will continue to comply with these, or other, NASDAQ requirements. If we fail to so comply, our stock may be delisted.16Table of Contents