Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks associated with our business, an investment in our securities, and with achieving the forward-looking statements contained in this report or in our news releases, websites, public filings, investor and analyst conferences or elsewhere, include, but are not limited to, the risk factors described below. Any of the risk factors described below could cause our actual results to differ materially from expectations and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. We may not succeed in addressing these challenges and risks. The industry in which we operate is dependent upon the homebuilding industry, the economy, the credit markets, and other important factors. The building products industry is highly dependent on new home construction, which in turn is dependent upon a number of factors, including interest rates, consumer confidence, employment rates, foreclosure rates, and the health of the economy and mortgage markets. Unfavorable changes in demographics, credit markets, consumer confidence, housing affordability, or inventory levels, or weakening of the national economy or of any regional or local economy in which we operate, could adversely affect consumer spending, result in decreased demand for homes, and adversely affect our business. Production of new homes may also decline because of shortages of qualified tradesmen, reliance on inadequately capitalized homebuilders and sub-contractors, and shortages of material. In addition, the homebuilding industry is subject to various local, state, and federal statutes, ordinances, rules, and regulations concerning zoning, building design and safety, construction, energy conservation and similar matters, including regulations that impose restrictive zoning and density requirements in order to limit the number of homes that can be built within the boundaries of a particular area. Increased regulatory restrictions could limit demand for new homes and could negatively affect our sales and earnings. Because we have substantial fixed costs, relatively modest declines in our customers’ production levels could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. The homebuilding industry has been undergoing a significant and sustained downturn that began in mid-2006. Challenging conditions still persist even as, according to the U.S. Census Bureau, actual single family housing starts in the U.S. during 2010 increased 5.9% from 2009. We believe that the ongoing market downturn is attributable to a variety of factors including: a severe economic recession, followed by an economic recovery that has been modest to date; limited credit availability; excess home inventories; a substantial reduction in speculative home investment; reduced consumer confidence; and soft housing demand. The downturn in the homebuilding industry has resulted in a substantial reduction in demand for our 11 Table of Contents products and services, which in turn had a significant adverse effect on our business and operating results during fiscal years 2007 through 2010. In addition, beginning in 2007, the mortgage markets experienced substantial disruption due to increased defaults, primarily as a result of credit quality deterioration. The disruption has continued to date and has resulted in a stricter regulatory environment and reduced availability of mortgages for potential homebuyers due to an illiquid credit market, substantial declines in housing prices, and tighter standards to qualify for mortgages. Mortgage financing and commercial credit for smaller homebuilders continue to be severely constrained. As the housing industry is dependent upon the economy and employment levels as well as potential homebuyers’ access to mortgage financing and homebuilders’ access to commercial credit, it is likely that the housing industry will not recover until conditions in the economy and the credit markets significantly improve and unemployment rates decline. We cannot predict the duration and magnitude of the current economic and market conditions, or the timing or strength of a future recovery of housing activity in our markets, if any. We also cannot provide any assurances that the homebuilding industry will not weaken further or that the operational strategies we have implemented to address the current market conditions will be successful. Continued weakness in the homebuilding industry would have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In view of the current housing downturn, we may be required to take additional impairment charges relating to our operations or close under-performing locations. During 2008, we recorded goodwill impairment charges of $39.9 million in continuing operations related to our Florida reporting unit and $4.0 million in discontinued operations, net of tax, related to our Ohio reporting unit. During 2008, we also recorded impairment charges related to long-lived assets, other than goodwill, of $7.0 million in continuing operations and $0.1 million in discontinued operations, net of tax. During 2009, we recorded an impairment charge of $0.5 million in continuing operations to reduce the carrying value of a parcel of real estate being held for sale. During 2010, we recorded an impairment charge of $0.8 in continuing operations related to long-lived assets and land held for sale. If the current weakness in the homebuilding industry continues, we may need to take additional goodwill and/or asset impairment charges relating to certain of our reporting units. Any such non-cash charges would have an adverse effect on our financial results. In addition, in response to industry and market conditions, we may have to close certain facilities in under-performing markets, although we have no specific plans for additional facility closures at this time. Any such facility closures could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows. Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, and prevent us from meeting our obligations under our debt instruments. As of December 31, 2010, our funded debt was approximately $165.0 million, which consisted of $20.0 million of outstanding borrowings under our senior secured revolving credit facility, $139.7 million of our Second Priority Senior Secured Floating Rate Notes due in 2016 (“2016 notes”), and $5.3 million of our remaining Floating Rate Notes due in 2012 (“2012 notes”). Our senior secured revolving credit facility is scheduled to mature in December 2012, but will mature in November 2011 if we have not repaid or extended the maturity of all of the outstanding 2012 notes by that time. In addition, we have significant obligations under ongoing operating leases that are not reflected in our balance sheet. As of December 31, 2010, all of our funded debt was at a variable interest rate. If interest rates rise, our interest expense would increase. However, interest expense on our 2016 notes, which are subject to a 3% floor, would not change unless LIBOR increased to greater than 3%. Based on debt outstanding and LIBOR rates at December 31, 2010, a 1.0% increase in interest rates would result in approximately $0.2 million of additional interest expense annually. 12 Table of Contents Our substantial debt could have important consequences to us, including: • increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow used in operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures, and future business opportunities; • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates, and corresponding increased interest expense, because a significant portion of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions, and general corporate or other purposes; and • limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt. In addition, some of our debt instruments, including those governing our senior secured revolving credit facility and our notes, contain cross-default provisions that could result in our debt being declared immediately due and payable under a number of debt instruments, even if we default on only one debt instrument. In such event, it is unlikely that we would be able to satisfy our obligations under all of such accelerated indebtedness simultaneously. Our financial condition and operating performance and that of our subsidiaries is also subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, and other factors beyond our control. There are no assurances that we will maintain a level of liquidity sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, and interest on our indebtedness beyond 2011. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. The credit agreement governing our senior secured revolving credit facility and the indenture governing our 2016 notes restrict our ability to dispose of assets and to use the proceeds from such dispositions. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or be able to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them, and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. We may have future capital needs and may not be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms. Given the ongoing housing downturn, we are substantially reliant on cash on hand and our $150 million senior secured revolving credit facility to provide working capital and fund our operations. Our inability to renew or replace this facility when required or when business conditions warrant, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. As of December 31, 2010, our outstanding borrowings under this facility were $20 million, and our net available borrowing capacity in excess of our minimum liquidity covenant was $22.6 million. Our inability to borrow additional funds under this facility to fund our working capital requirements and our operations could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Economic and credit market conditions, the performance of the homebuilding industry, and our financial performance, as well as other factors, may constrain our financing abilities. Our ability to secure additional financing, if available, and to satisfy our financial obligations under indebtedness outstanding from time to time will depend upon our future operating performance, the availability of credit, economic conditions, and financial, business, and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. The prolonged continuation or worsening of the current market and macroeconomic conditions that affect our industry could require us to seek additional capital and have a material adverse effect on our ability to secure such capital on favorable terms, if at all. We may be unable to secure additional financing or financing on favorable terms or our operating cash flow may be insufficient to satisfy our financial obligations under indebtedness outstanding from time to time, including our 2012 notes, our 2016 notes, and our senior secured revolving credit facility. The credit agreement governing our senior secured revolving credit facility and the indenture governing the 2016 notes, moreover, restrict the amount of permitted indebtedness allowed. In addition, if financing is not available when needed, or is available on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of 13 Table of Contents operations. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of additional equity or convertible debt securities, our stockholders may experience significant dilution. We may incur additional indebtedness. We may incur additional indebtedness under our senior secured revolving credit facility, which provides for up to $150.0 million of revolving credit borrowings. Given the severe housing downturn, we are currently substantially reliant on our cash on hand and our credit facility to fund our operations. In addition, we may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, including collateralized debt, subject to the restrictions contained in the credit agreement governing our senior secured revolving credit facility and the indenture governing our 2016 notes. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. Our debt instruments contain various covenants that limit our ability to operate our business. Our financing arrangements, including our senior secured revolving credit facility and the indenture governing our 2016 notes, contain various provisions that limit our ability to, among other things: • transfer or sell assets, including the equity interests of our restricted subsidiaries, or use asset sale proceeds; • incur additional debt; • pay dividends or distributions on our capital stock or repurchase our capital stock; • make certain restricted payments or investments; • create liens to secure debt; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • merge or consolidate with another company or continue to receive the benefits of these financing arrangements under a “change in control” scenario (as defined in those agreements); and • engage in unrelated business activities. At December 31, 2010, our net available borrowing capacity under our senior secured revolving credit facility in excess of the required $10 million liquidity covenant was $22.6 million. This covenant calculates as eligible borrowing base less outstanding borrowings. The resulting amount must equal or exceed a minimum liquidity requirement, ranging from $10.0-$18.75 million, or we are required to meet a fixed charge coverage ratio of 1:1, which we currently would not meet. The fixed charge coverage ratio is defined as the ratio of earnings before interest expenses, income taxes, depreciation, and amortization expenses minus capital expenditures, cash taxes paid, dividends, distributions and share repurchases or redemptions to the sum of scheduled principal payments and interest expense on a trailing 12 month basis from the trigger date. Based on our 2011 forecast, we will not meet the fixed charge coverage ratio, but we anticipate that we will not fall below the required minimum liquidity covenant in 2011 and therefore, will not trigger the fixed charge coverage ratio requirement. The calculation allows cash on deposit with the agent to be included as eligible borrowing base. Further declines in our borrowing base, if any, could compel us to either repay outstanding borrowings under the senior secured revolving credit facility or increase cash on deposit with the agent. These covenants may restrict our ability to expand or fully pursue our business strategies. Our ability to comply with these and other provisions of the credit agreement governing our senior secured revolving credit facility and the indenture governing our 2016 notes may be affected by changes in our operating and financial performance, changes in general business and economic conditions, adverse regulatory developments, a change in control or other events beyond our control. The breach of any of these covenants, including those contained in our senior secured revolving credit facility and the indenture governing our 2016 notes, could result in a default under our indebtedness, which could cause those and other obligations to become due and payable. If any of our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not be able to repay it. 14 Table of Contents We occupy most of our facilities under long-term non-cancelable leases. We may be unable to renew leases at the end of their terms. If we close a facility, we are still obligated under the applicable lease. Most of our facilities are located in leased premises. Many of our current leases are non-cancelable and typically have initial terms ranging from 5 to 15 years and most provide options to renew for specified periods of time. We believe that leases we enter into in the future will likely be long-term and non-cancelable and have similar renewal options. If we close or idle a facility, most likely we remain committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease, which would include, among other things, payment of the base rent, insurance, taxes, and other expenses on the leased property for the balance of the lease term. During the period from 2007 through 2010, we closed or idled a number of facilities for which we remain liable on the lease obligations. Our obligation to continue making rental payments in respect of leases for closed or idled facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Alternatively, at the end of the lease term and any renewal period for a facility, we may be unable to renew the lease without substantial additional cost, if at all. If we are unable to renew our facility leases, we may close or relocate a facility, which could subject us to construction and other costs and risks, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. For example, closing a facility, even during the time of relocation, will reduce the sales that the facility would have contributed to our revenues. Additionally, the revenue and profit, if any, generated at a relocated facility may not equal the revenue and profit generated at the existing one. We are a holding company and conduct all of our operations through our subsidiaries. We are a holding company that derives all of our operating income from our subsidiaries. All of our assets are held by our direct and indirect subsidiaries. We rely on the earnings and cash flows of our subsidiaries, which are paid to us by our subsidiaries in the form of dividends and other payments or distributions, to meet our debt service obligations. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments or distributions to us will depend on their respective operating results and may be restricted by, among other things, the laws of their jurisdiction of organization (which may limit the amount of funds available for the payment of dividends and other distributions to us), the terms of existing and future indebtedness and other agreements of our subsidiaries, the senior secured revolving credit facility, the terms of the indenture governing our 2016 notes, and the covenants of any future outstanding indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur. The building supply industry is cyclical and seasonal. The building products supply industry is subject to cyclical market pressures. Prices of building products are subject to fluctuations arising from changes in supply and demand, national and international economic conditions, labor costs, competition, market speculation, government regulation, and trade policies, as well as from periodic delays in the delivery of lumber and other products. For example, prices of wood products, including lumber and panel products, are subject to significant volatility and directly affect our sales and earnings. In particular, low market prices for wood products over a sustained period can adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows, as can excessive spikes in market prices. For the year ended December 31, 2010, average market prices for lumber and lumber sheet goods were 28.1% higher than the prior year primarily due to a sharp increase in market prices for lumber during the first six months of 2010. Our lumber and lumber sheet goods product category represented 28.8% of total sales for the year ended December 31, 2010. We have no ability to control the timing and amount of pricing changes for building products. In addition, the supply of building products fluctuates based on available manufacturing capacity. A shortage of capacity or excess capacity in the industry can result in significant increases or declines in market prices for those products, often within a short period of time. Such price fluctuations can adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. In addition, although weather patterns affect our operating results throughout the year, adverse weather historically has reduced construction activity in the first and fourth quarters in our markets. To the extent that hurricanes, severe storms, floods, other natural disasters or similar events occur in the markets in which we operate, our business may be adversely affected. We anticipate that fluctuations from period to period will continue in the future. The loss of any of our significant customers could affect our financial health. Our 10 largest customers generated approximately 21.8% and 23.8% of our sales for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2010, respectively. We cannot guarantee that we will maintain or improve our relationships with these customers or that we will continue to supply these customers at historical levels. Due to the current housing downturn, many of our homebuilder customers have substantially reduced construction activity. Some homebuilder customers have exited or severely curtailed building activity in certain of our markets. This trend is likely to continue until there is a housing recovery in our markets. Continuation of the current housing downturn could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. 15 Table of Contents In addition to these factors, production homebuilders and other customers may: (1) seek to purchase some of the products that we currently sell directly from manufacturers, (2) elect to establish their own building products manufacturing and distribution facilities, or (3) give advantages to manufacturing or distribution intermediaries in which they have an economic stake. In addition, continued consolidation among production homebuilders could also result in a loss of some of our present customers to our competitors. The loss of one or more of our significant customers or deterioration in our relations with any of them could significantly affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Furthermore, our customers are not required to purchase any minimum amount of products from us. The contracts into which we have entered with most of our professional customers typically provide that we supply particular products or services for a certain period of time when and if ordered by the customer. Should our customers purchase our products in significantly lower quantities than they have in the past, such decreased purchases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows. Our industry is highly fragmented and competitive, and increased competitive pressure may adversely affect our results. The building products supply industry is highly fragmented and competitive. We face significant competition from local and regional building materials chains, as well as from privately-owned single site enterprises. Any of these competitors may (1) foresee the course of market development more accurately than we do, (2) develop products that are superior to our products, (3) have the ability to produce or supply similar products at a lower cost, (4) develop stronger relationships with local homebuilders, (5) adapt more quickly to new technologies or evolving customer requirements than we do, or (6) have access to financing on more favorable terms than we can obtain in the market. As a result, we may not be able to compete successfully with them. In addition, home center retailers, which have historically concentrated their sales efforts on retail consumers and small contractors, may in the future intensify their marketing efforts to professional homebuilders. Furthermore, certain product manufacturers sell and distribute their products directly to production homebuilders. The volume of such direct sales could increase in the future. Additionally, manufacturers of products distributed by us may elect to sell and distribute directly to homebuilders in the future or enter into exclusive supplier arrangements with other distributors. Consolidation of production homebuilders may result in increased competition for their business. Finally, we may not be able to maintain our operating costs or product prices at a level sufficiently low enough for us to compete effectively. If we are unable to compete effectively, our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows may be adversely affected. We are subject to competitive pricing pressure from our customers. Production homebuilders historically have exerted significant pressure on their outside suppliers to keep prices low because of their market share and their ability to leverage such market share in the highly fragmented building products supply industry. The current housing industry downturn has resulted in significantly increased pricing pressures from production homebuilders and other customers. These pricing pressures significantly adversely affected our operating results and cash flows during 2009 and 2010. In addition, continued consolidation among production homebuilders, and changes in production homebuilders’ purchasing policies or payment practices, could result in additional pricing pressure. In addition, as a result of the housing downturn, several of our homebuilder customers have defaulted on amounts owed to us or their payable days have become extended as a result of their financial condition, however, our accounts receivable days decreased in 2010 compared to 2009. Such payment failures or delays may significantly adversely affect our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows. The ownership position of affiliates of JLL Partners Inc. and Warburg Pincus LLC limits other stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters. JLL Partners Inc. (“JLL”) and Warburg Pincus LLC (“Warburg Pincus”) together own in excess of 50% of our outstanding common stock. Five of our ten directors hold positions with affiliates of either JLL or Warburg Pincus. Accordingly, JLL and Warburg Pincus have significant influence over our management and affairs and over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or its assets. This concentrated ownership position limits other stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that some of our stockholders do not view as beneficial. Additionally, JLL and Warburg Pincus are in the business of making investments in companies and may, from time to time, acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. These entities may also pursue, for their own accounts, acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. Further, certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may limit your ability to influence corporate matters, and, as a result, we may take actions that some of our stockholders do not view as beneficial. 16 Table of Contents Our continued success will depend on our ability to retain our key employees and to attract and retain new qualified employees. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract, hire, train, and retain qualified managerial, operational, sales, and marketing personnel. We face significant competition for these types of employees in our industry and from other industries. We may be unsuccessful in attracting and retaining the personnel we require to conduct and expand our operations successfully. In addition, key personnel may leave us and compete against us. Our success also depends to a significant extent on the continued service of our senior management team. We may be unsuccessful in replacing key managers who either quit or retire. The loss of any member of our senior management team or other experienced, senior employees could impair our ability to execute our business plan, cause us to lose customers and reduce our net sales, or lead to employee morale problems and/or the loss of other key employees. In any such event, our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows could be adversely affected. The nature of our business exposes us to product liability and warranty claims and other legal proceedings. We are involved in product liability and product warranty claims relating to the products we manufacture and distribute that, if adversely determined, could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows. We rely on manufacturers and other suppliers to provide us with many of the products we sell and distribute. Because we do not have direct control over the quality of such products manufactured or supplied by such third-party suppliers, we are exposed to risks relating to the quality of such products. In addition, we are exposed to potential claims arising from the conduct of homebuilders and their subcontractors, for which we may be contractually liable. Although we currently maintain what we believe to be suitable and adequate insurance in excess of our self-insured amounts, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms or that such insurance will provide adequate protection against potential liabilities. Product liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant periods, regardless of the ultimate outcome. Claims of this nature could also have a negative impact on customer confidence in our products and our company. In addition, we are involved on an ongoing basis in other types of legal proceedings. We cannot assure you that any current or future claims will not adversely affect our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows. Product shortages, loss of key suppliers, and our dependence on third-party suppliers and manufacturers could affect our financial health. Our ability to offer a wide variety of products to our customers is dependent upon our ability to obtain adequate product supply from manufacturers and other suppliers. Generally, our products are obtainable from various sources and in sufficient quantities. However, the loss of, or a substantial decrease in the availability of, products from our suppliers or the loss of key supplier arrangements could adversely impact our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows. Although in many instances we have agreements with our suppliers, these agreements are generally terminable by either party on limited notice. Failure by our suppliers to continue to supply us with products on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, could put pressure on our operating margins or have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows. Short-term changes in the cost of these materials, some of which are subject to significant fluctuations, are sometimes, but not always passed on to our customers. Our delayed ability to pass on material price increases to our customers could adversely impact our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows. A range of factors may make our quarterly revenues and earnings variable. We have historically experienced, and in the future will continue to experience, variability in revenues and earnings on a quarterly basis. The factors expected to contribute to this variability include, among others: (1) the volatility of prices of lumber, wood products and other building products, (2) the cyclical nature of the homebuilding industry, (3) general economic conditions in the various local markets in which we compete, (4) the pricing policies of our competitors, (5) the production schedules of our customers, and (6) the effects of the weather. These factors, among others, make it difficult to project our operating results on a consistent basis, which may affect the price of our stock. 17 Table of Contents We may be adversely affected by any disruption in our information technology systems. Our operations are dependent upon our information technology systems, which encompass all of our major business functions. Our primary ERP system, which we use for operations representing approximately 98% of our sales, is a proprietary system that has been highly customized by our computer programmers. Our centralized financial reporting system currently draws data from our ERP systems. We rely upon such information technology systems to manage and replenish inventory, to fill and ship customer orders on a timely basis, and to coordinate our sales activities across all of our products and services. A substantial disruption in our information technology systems for any prolonged time period (arising from, for example, system capacity limits from unexpected increases in our volume of business, outages, or delays in our service) could result in delays in receiving inventory and supplies or filling customer orders and adversely affect our customer service and relationships. Our systems might be damaged or interrupted by natural or man-made events or by computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, or similar disruptions affecting the global Internet. There can be no assurance that such delays, problems, or costs will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. We may be adversely affected by any natural or man-made disruptions to our distribution and manufacturing facilities. We currently maintain a broad network of distribution and manufacturing facilities throughout the southern and eastern U.S. Any serious disruption to our facilities resulting from fire, earthquake, weather-related events, an act of terrorism, or any other cause could damage a significant portion of our inventory and could materially impair our ability to distribute our products to customers. Moreover, we could incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with distributing our products to our customers during the time that it takes for us to reopen or replace a damaged facility. In addition, any shortages of fuel or significant fuel cost increases could seriously disrupt our ability to distribute products to our customers. If any of these events were to occur, our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. We may be unable to successfully implement our growth strategy, which includes increasing sales of our prefabricated components and other value-added products, pursuing strategic acquisitions and opening new facilities. Our long-term strategy depends in part on growing our sales of prefabricated components and other value-added products and increasing our market share. If any of these initiatives are not successful, or require extensive investment, our growth may be limited, and we may be unable to achieve or maintain expected levels of growth and profitability. Our long-term business plan also provides for continued growth through strategic acquisitions and organic growth through the construction of new facilities or the expansion of existing facilities. Failure to identify and acquire suitable acquisition candidates on appropriate terms could have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy. Moreover, a significant change in our business, the economy, or the housing market, an unexpected decrease in our cash flow for any reason, or the requirements of our senior secured revolving credit facility or the indenture governing our 2016 notes, could result in an inability to obtain the capital required to effect new acquisitions or expansions of existing facilities. Our failure to make successful acquisitions or to build or expand facilities, including manufacturing facilities, produce saleable product, or meet customer demand in a timely manner could result in damage to or loss of customer relationships, which could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows. In addition, although we have been successful in the past in integrating 27 acquisitions, we may not be able to integrate the operations of future acquired businesses with our own in an efficient and cost-effective manner or without significant disruption to our existing operations. Acquisitions, moreover, involve significant risks and uncertainties, including uncertainties as to the future financial performance of the acquired business, difficulties integrating acquired personnel and corporate cultures into our business, the potential loss of key employees, customers or suppliers, difficulties in integrating different computer and accounting systems, exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies, and the diversion of management attention and resources from existing operations. We may be unable to successfully complete potential acquisitions due to multiple factors, such as issues related to regulatory review of the proposed transactions. We may also be required to incur additional debt in order to consummate acquisitions in the future, which debt may be substantial and may limit our flexibility in using our cash flow from operations. Our failure to integrate future acquired businesses effectively or to manage other consequences of our acquisitions, including increased indebtedness, could prevent us from remaining competitive and, ultimately, could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows. Federal, state, local and other regulations could impose substantial costs and/or restrictions on our operations that would reduce our net income. We are subject to various federal, state, local, and other regulations, including, among other things, regulations promulgated by the Department of Transportation and applicable to our fleet of delivery trucks, work safety regulations promulgated by the Department of Labor’s Occupational Safety and Health Administration, employment regulations promulgated by the United States Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or similar entities 18 Table of Contents and state and local zoning restrictions and building codes. More burdensome regulatory requirements in these or other areas may increase our general and administrative costs and adversely affect our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows. Moreover, failure to comply with the regulatory requirements applicable to our business could expose us to substantial penalties that could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. We are subject to potential exposure to environmental liabilities and are subject to environmental regulation. We are subject to various federal, state, and local environmental laws, ordinances, and regulations. Although we believe that our facilities are in material compliance with such laws, ordinances, and regulations, as owners and lessees of real property, we can be held liable for the investigation or remediation of contamination on such properties, in some circumstances, without regard to whether we knew of or were responsible for such contamination. No assurance can be provided that remediation may not be required in the future as a result of spills or releases of petroleum products or hazardous substances, the discovery of unknown environmental conditions, more stringent standards regarding existing residual contamination, or changes in legislation, laws, rules or regulations. More burdensome environmental regulatory requirements may increase our general and administrative costs and adversely affect our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows. We may be adversely affected by uncertainty in the economy and financial markets, including as a result of terrorism and the war in the Middle East. Instability in the economy and financial markets, including as a result of terrorism and the war in the Middle East and Afghanistan, may result in a decrease in housing starts, which would adversely affect our business. In addition, the war, related setbacks or adverse developments, including a retaliatory military strike or terrorist attack, may cause unpredictable or unfavorable economic conditions and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows. In addition, any shortages of fuel or significant fuel cost increases related to geopolitical conditions could seriously disrupt our ability to distribute products to our customers. Terrorist attacks similar to the ones committed on September 11, 2001, may affect our ability to keep our operations and services functioning properly and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 