D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our limited operating history makes evaluating our business and prospects difficult. We commenced operations in July 2002 and completed our first mobile handset design project in September 2003. We started selling completed handsets in 2006 and such product sales constituted 65.7% of our total net revenues in 2011. With the acquisition of the Citylead in 2010, we began to design our QIGI branded mobile phones, leveraging the design capabilities and EMS suppliers from our ODP business. Our brand name phone sales business contributed 14.1% and 20.9% of our total revenue in 2010 and 2011, respectively. We started to develop our game business in 2008, which constituted less than 1.0% of our total revenues in 2009 but approximately 4.0% and 13.4% of our total revenues in 2010 and 2011, respectively. We have a limited operating history, especially in the game business, which may not provide a meaningful basis for evaluating our business, financial performance and prospects. We may not have sufficient experience to address the risks frequently encountered by early stage companies, including our potential inability to: • achieve and maintain our profitability and margins; • acquire and retain customers; • attract, train and retain qualified personnel; • maintain adequate control over our costs and expenses; • keep up with evolving industry standards and market developments; or • promptly respond to competitive and changing market conditions. If we are unsuccessful in addressing any of the above risks, our business may be materially and adversely affected. If we do not succeed in our expansions into new businesses, our future results of operations and growth prospects may be materially and adversely affected. 6 Table of Contents As part of our growth strategy, we enter into new businesses from time to time to generate additional revenue streams. Expansions into new businesses may present operating and marketing challenges that are different from those that we currently encounter. For each new business into which we enter, we face competition from existing leading players with abundant experience in that business. If we cannot successfully address the new challenges and compete effectively against the existing leading players and gain experience in each new business, we may be unable to develop a sufficiently large customer and user base, recover the costs incurred for developing and marketing new businesses, and eventually achieve profitability from these businesses, and our future results of operations and growth prospects may be materially and adversely affected. Our business is sensitive to global economic conditions. A severe or prolonged downturn in the global or Chinese economy could materially and adversely affect our business and our financial condition. Our business and operations are primarily based in China and the majority of our revenues are derived from our operations in China. Our financial results have been, and are expected to continue to be, affected by economic conditions in the global markets and in China as well as by changes in the relevant industries in China. The global financial markets experienced significant disruptions in 2008 and the United States, Europe and other economies went into recession. The recovery from the lows of 2008 and 2009 was uneven and it is facing new challenges, including the escalation of the European sovereign debt crisis since 2011. It is unclear whether the European sovereign debt crisis will be contained and what effects it may have. There is considerable uncertainty over the long-term effects of the expansionary monetary and fiscal policies that have been adopted by the central banks and financial authorities of some of the world’s leading economies, including China’s. There have also been concerns over unrest in the Middle East and Africa, which have resulted in higher oil prices and significant market volatility, and over the possibility of a war involving Iran. There have also been concerns about the economic effect of the earthquake, tsunami and nuclear crisis in Japan. Economic conditions in China are sensitive to global economic conditions. Entering into 2011, inflation remained the main risk for China’s economy. The main causes of China’s inflationary pressure included the massive liquidity stimulus introduced after the global financial crisis in 2009 and rising commodity prices. Any prolonged slowdown in the global or Chinese economy may have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition, and continued turbulence in the international markets may adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs. Entering into 2012, we expect that China’s economy will continue to be subject to uncertainties, in addition to weaknesses in the global economy. To cope with the global economic downturn and inflation, we undertook a human resource restructuring in 2008 and streamlined our business processes to improve efficiency. As of December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, we had 518, 471 and 470 employees, respectively. There is no assurance that we can continue to effectively meet market demand with our current restructured work force. If we cannot timely and effectively meet market demand with our restructured work force, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Any persistent slow-down in China’s economy or the recurrence of any financial disruptions may materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition in a number of ways. For example, the weakness in the economy could erode consumer confidence which, in turn, could result in changes to consumer spending patterns for our products and services. If consumer demand for the products and services we offer decreases, our revenues may decline. Furthermore, the recent financial turmoil affecting the financial markets and banking system may significantly restrict our ability to obtain financing in the capital markets or from financial institutions on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Although we are uncertain about the extent to which the recent global financial and economic crisis and slow-down of the Chinese economy may impact our business in the short term and long term, there is a risk that our business, results of operations and prospects would be materially and adversely affected by the continuing global economic downturn and any slow-down of the Chinese economy. If we cannot keep up with industry standards and design or offer new mobile handset models for sale in a timely and cost-efficient manner to meet customer demand, our business will be materially and adversely affected. The mobile handset market is characterized by changing end user preferences and demand for new and advanced functions and applications on mobile handsets, rapid product obsolescence, price erosion, intense competition, evolving industry standards and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. If we cannot design new mobile handset models for sale in a timely and cost-efficient manner to meet our customers’ demand, our business will be materially and adversely affected. We might not be able to innovate, develop and bring our mobile products and location-based services or other services to market and delays in the ramp-up of new product deliveries may results from a variety of factors including failure to anticipate consumer trends and needs, insufficient and ineffective internal and external execution in our research and product development process or an inability to secure sufficient quantities of necessary components or software assets from suppliers on a timely basis. As the market for 2.75G and third-generation, or 3G and 4G, mobile handsets continues to develop, our existing and potential customers may increasingly demand more 3G and 4G mobile handsets. Since 2006, we have begun to design 2.75G, 3G and 3.5G mobile handsets. We have received orders for 3G and 3.5G mobile handset designs and in 2007 we launched the WCDMA/GSM dual mode dual standby phone. In 2010, we launched motion gaming mobile devices and TV phones. In 2011, we launched high standard, ruggedized mobile phone. During 2010 and 2011, we also received increased sales orders from our customers for the above products. 7 Table of Contents However, we cannot assure you that there will be sufficient customer demand for such phones in the future. Further, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully meet our customers’ demand with respect to cost, quality and time to completion. Our failure to meet customer demand and expectations could hurt our reputation and affect our business and cost us existing customers and negatively affect our results of operations. QUALCOMM Incorporated, or QUALCOMM, has also lowered the entry barrier for many smaller handset companies through the introduction of MSM6240 and MSM6270 chipsets for the production of 3.5G mobile phones. In addition, Google Android mobile operating system is widely adopted with less differentiation among different operating systems, greatly increasing the level of competition in this area. MediaTek has also launched 2 chipsets, namely MT6573 and MT6575, and this greatly increased the level of competition for the Android smart phones market. These chipsets further lowered the entry barrier for companies that are interested in developing smart phones based on the Android operating system and eventually increased the level of competition within the mobile phone industry. The introduction of Google Android represents both opportunities and threats for us. We need to shift our focus from Windows Mobile OS to Google Android platform and we may face difficulties in adapting our technology to work with the new operating system. The Android OS is being commonly adopted by most of our competitors and with less differentiation within each of their operating systems, presenting bigger threats and tougher competition for us in this area. More co-operation with third parties software providers are also required to make our products compatible with Android OS, which may in turn increase our research and development expenditure in this area. The availability and success of Google’s Android platform has made entry and expansion in the smart phone market easier for a number of hardware manufacturers which have chosen to join Android’s ecosystem, especially at the mid to low range of the smart phone market. We expect that this will increase our competition and is likely to reduce our gross margin. The addressable market for feature phones may further reduce in size if the higher-end price points become dominated by more affordable smart phones, such as Android-based smart phones. In some regions, especially in Europe and China, overall market demand for feature phones may decline further, which may materially and adversely affect our business. If our customers fail to achieve success in their business, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. If any of our major customers is unsuccessful in its mobile handset sales, whether due to lack of market acceptance of its products, shortage of component supplies, slowdown of replacement sales of mobile handsets or otherwise, the customer may downsize or discontinue its mobile handset business, which in turn could adversely affect our original developed products, or ODP, business and brand name phone sales. Accordingly, our success depends on our customers’ success in their business. Our largest customer in 2009, 2010 and 2011 contributed approximately 14.1%, 11.4% and 14.9% of our net revenues, respectively, and our largest three customers in 2009, 2010 and 2011 contributed approximately 34.2%, 30.4% and 37.6% of our net revenues, respectively. We are not certain whether our customers will be able to achieve success in their business or how long they will remain competitive in their business even if they are initially successful. If any of our customers experiences financial difficulty or is otherwise unable to achieve success in its own business, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Due to the global economic recession, many local and regional telecom operators in China have reduced their subsidies on their mobile phones and modems, which in turn drive up the prices charged to end users. This may reduce the demand from the end users and eventually affect our business. We are exposed to inventory risks and the credit risk in relation to our customers. As our product sales constitute the majority of our revenues, we are correspondingly exposed to inventory risks. Although we arrange with our electronics manufacturing services, or EMS, providers for product manufacturing according to the sales orders we receive, we nevertheless need to order some raw material and components in advance of assigning them to the EMS providers and to build inventory in advance of customers’ orders to balance the longer lead time for components and shorter delivery time requested by our customers. Because demand for our products is affected by a number of factors, including competition and general economic conditions, there is a risk that we may forecast customer demand incorrectly and order from third parties in excess or insufficient inventories of particular products. In addition, credit risk in relation to our customers may arise from events or circumstances beyond our control. For instance, an economic downturn may cause our customers to default under their ODP product contracts with us and expose us to the risk that our customers may refuse to buy from us the number of mobile handsets specified in their purchase orders or may not be able to pay us timely or at all in accordance with the sales contracts. Even if we may sometimes be able to retain as penalties the partial prepayments or deposits received from such defaulting customers, this might not be sufficient to offset the resulting loss of profits and the increased cost of unsold inventory. If our customers default in paying us, we would have to make provisions for doubtful debts or incur bad debt write-offs and our business would be materially and adversely affected. 8 Table of Contents We are dependent on our suppliers and EMS providers for timely manufacturing and delivery of the products sold to our customers. We rely on our suppliers for procuring the raw materials and components required for the manufacturing of the mobile handsets that we sell to our customers. As we do not have our own manufacturing facilities, we rely on EMS providers for the assembling and manufacturing of these products. If these suppliers or EMS providers fail to deliver their goods or services to us in a timely manner and fail to meet our quality standard, our ability to deliver the finished products to our customers on a timely basis will be affected. If we fail to maintain our relationships with existing suppliers or EMS providers or fail to find new suppliers or EMS providers on competitive terms, our business operations and financial results may be materially and adversely affected. A supplier may fail to meet our requirements, such as, most notably, the product quality, safety, security and other standards set by us or our customers. Consequently, some of our products may be unacceptable to us and our customers, or may fail to meet our quality control standards. In case of issues affecting a product’s safety or regulatory compliance, we may be subjected to damages due to product liability, or defective products, components or services may need to be replaced or recalled. The mobile handset market and game market in China are highly competitive, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against our competitors. The mobile handset market in China is intensely competitive and highly fragmented. We face current and potential competition from established suppliers of wireless communications solutions to mobile device manufacturers. These competitors include original design manufacturers such as Sim Technology Group Limited, BYD Electronico Limited and Longcheer Holdings Limited. We are also facing greater competition from the existing popular branded mobile phone companies, such as Apple, Samsung, ZTE, Huawei and others. Compared against these competitors, our own branded mobile phones may lack market awareness, cost advantages, and good distribution channels. This may in turn result in lower demand levels and fewer shipments for our branded mobile phones in the future. We also face competitors that outsource the manufacturing to EMS providers because they, like us, do not own the necessary manufacturing facilities. For this group of competitors, the outsourcing of the manufacturing process allows lower operating costs and reduced capital investments and other fixed costs. This in turn results in low barriers of entry, and accordingly may lead to an increasing number of new players into this market in the near future. We are also facing greater competition in the game market from existing popular game providers and publishers such as Tencent Games, The9 Limited and Shanghai Shenda Company Limited. Many of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, sales and other resources than we do. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors. Our strategy to acquire or invest in complementary businesses and assets to establish strategic alliances involves significant risk and uncertainties that may prevent us from achieving our objectives and harm our financial condition and results of operations. As part of our plan to expand our product and service offerings, we have made and intend to continue making strategic acquisitions or investments in complementary businesses in China. Our strategic acquisitions and investments could subject us to uncertainties and risks, including: • high acquisition and financing costs; • potential ongoing financial obligations and unforeseen or hidden liabilities; • failure to achieve our intended objectives, benefits or revenue-enhancing opportunities; 9 Table of Contents • cost of, and difficulties in, integrating acquired businesses and managing a larger business; • potential claims or litigation regarding our board’s exercise of its duty of care and other duties required under applicable law in connection with any of our significant acquisitions or investments approved by the board; and • diversion of our resources and management attention. Our failure to address these uncertainties and risks may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may establish strategic alliances with various third parties to further our business purpose from time to time. Strategic alliances with third parties could subject us to a number of risks, including risks associated with sharing proprietary information, non-performance by counter-parties, and an increase in expenses incurred in establishing new strategic alliances, any of which may materially and adversely affect our business. Our business depends substantially on the continued use of certain intellectual property rights, and any termination of or infringement upon such rights may harm our business and competitive position. Our business depends substantially on the use of certain intellectual property rights. For example, we are dependent on QUALCOMM for CDMA- and WCDMA-related technology we use in designing, manufacturing and selling CDMA- and WCDMA-based mobile handsets. Suspension or termination of our CDMA and WCDMA license agreement by QUALCOMM could adversely affect our business and prospects, because we may not be able to obtain alternative licenses in a timely manner to meet our customers’ demands. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secret laws and copyrights, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods to protect our intellectual property rights. Implementation of PRC intellectual property-related laws has historically been lacking, primarily because of ambiguities in the PRC laws and difficulties in enforcement. Accordingly, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology is difficult and expensive, and the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may be inadequate to prevent the misappropriation of our proprietary technology. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technologies could enable third parties to benefit from our technologies without paying us, which could harm our business and competitive position. Although we are not currently involved in any litigation, we may need to resort to court action to enforce our intellectual property rights. Litigation relating to our intellectual property might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. See “— Risks Related to Doing Business in China — Uncertainties with regards to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us.” We may face intellectual property infringement and other claims that could be time-consuming and costly to defend and result in our loss of significant rights. Other parties may assert intellectual property infringement and other claims against us. Litigation is expensive and time-consuming and could divert management’s attention from our business. If there is a successful claim of infringement, we may be required to pay substantial damages to the party claiming infringement, develop alternate non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or license agreements that may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Our failure to develop non-infringing technologies or license the proprietary rights on a timely basis would harm our business. Parties asserting infringement claims may be able to obtain an injunction, which could prevent us from providing our services or using technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property. While currently we do not have any on-going infringement claims against us, we had in the past been, and may in the future be, subject to claims by other parties alleging infringements of their intellectual property rights by our products. To resolve such claims, we may be required to pay licensing fees to third parties, which could adversely affect our financial condition. Any such claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Our business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our senior executives, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success depends heavily upon the continued services of our senior executives, especially our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Defu Dong. We rely on the experience of our senior executives in mobile handset design and our manufacturing, business operations and selling and marketing and also depend on their relationships with our customers. We do not maintain key-man life insurance for any of our key executives. If one or more of our key executives are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them easily or at all. Therefore, our business may be severely disrupted, and we may incur additional expenses to recruit and retain new officers. 10 Table of Contents Several executives of our company, including Mr. Defu Dong, have been involved in litigation, arbitration or administrative proceedings in the past. Although we are not aware of any pending claims against us or our executives in 2011, any future litigation or administrative proceedings involving any of our key executives may result in diversion of management attention away from our business, or damage to our reputation. In addition, if any of our executives joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose our customers. If any disputes arise between our executive officers and us, we cannot assure you the extent to which our rights could be enforced in China, where these executive officers reside and hold most of their assets, in light of the uncertainties with PRC legal system. See “— Risks Related to Doing Business in China — Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us.” We may incur losses due to business interruptions resulting from the occurrence of adverse public events such as outbreak of epidemics, acts of terrorism, fires and natural catastrophes such as earthquakes. In April 2009, influenza A, or H1N1, a new strain of flu virus, was discovered in North America and quickly spread to other parts of the world, including China. In June 2009, the World Health Organization formally declared a H1N1 pandemic. Any prolonged recurrence of an H1N1, avian flu or SARS epidemic or other adverse public health developments in China may lead to, among other events, quarantines or closures of our offices which could severely disrupt our operations or the sickness or death of our key officers and employees, and a general slowdown in the Chinese economy. Any of the foregoing events or other unforeseen consequences of public health problems could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We have not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat any future outbreak of H1N1 influenza, avian flu, SARS or any other epidemic. In addition, acts of terrorism, fires or natural disasters such as earthquakes that affect where our principal offices are located or other locations where we have substantial business operations, may lead to significant loss of revenue by disrupting our business operations and may also materially and adversely affect our business. For example, the 9.0 magnitude earthquake that took place in Japan in March 2011 disrupted the supply of various components, which affected our production schedule for several products. Also, the unstable situation and ongoing conflict in the Middle East has also affected our business in several ways, such as the reduction of orders from customers and the increase of shipment costs to and from these regions. Failure to maintain effective internal controls and other factors could have a material and adverse effect on the trading price of our ADSs. Certain factors, including a failure to maintain effective internal control or any restatement of our financial statements, could cause the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, has adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the effectiveness of such companies’ internal control over financial reporting in each of their annual reports. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on the effectiveness of each public company’s internal controls over financial reporting. These requirements apply to this annual report on Form 20-F. Our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2011. See “Item 15. Controls and Procedures.” However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain effective internal control in the future, and if we fail to maintain effective internal control in the future, our management and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Furthermore, we have incurred and anticipate that we will continue to incur considerable costs, management time and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In addition, we previously restated our financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2009 to reflect a correct treatment of certain senior secured convertible promissory notes. Despite our best efforts to carefully consider and analyze accounting implications of non-routine events, we cannot be sure that there will not be restatements in the future, which may in turn result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. We are subject to product liability or product recall exposure and have limited insurance coverage. Our sales agreements with customers require us to recall products that we, a regulatory body or any of our customers determine as failing to meet pre-determined specifications, standards, laws, regulations or containing substantial defects or substantial product hazards which could cause damage. These events may be considered a breach of our purchase agreement warranty to our customers and we may be required to bear all costs related to the resulting product recalls. 11 Table of Contents As we continue to sell completed feature phones and smart phones to our customers, we are exposed to potential product liability claims in the event that the use of our products causes or is alleged to have caused personal injuries or other adverse effects. A successful product liability claim against us could require us to pay substantial damages. Product liability claims against us, whether successful or not, are costly and time-consuming to defend. Also, although we have not been found to produce defective products in the past, in the event that our products prove to be defective , we may be required to recall or redesign such products, which could result in substantial costs, diversion of management attention and resources and damage to our reputation. However, as the insurance industry in China is still in an early stage of development, product liability insurance available in China offers limited coverage compared to coverage offered in many other countries. We cannot assure you that product liability insurance will continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. A product liability claim, with or without merit, could result in significant adverse publicity against us and could negatively impact the marketability of our products and our reputation, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we do not have any business interruption insurance coverage for our operations. Any business disruption or natural disaster could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and materially and adversely affect our business. Risks from customers’ claims for refund and liquidated damages. Our agreements with many customers contain refund and liquidated damages provisions, which entitle the customers to demand refunds and liquidated damages if we cannot complete a mobile handset design by a specified deadline, if the requisite certifications cannot be obtained, or if we cannot timely deliver our smart phone or feature phone products to our customers. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully perform under every customer contract, or that costs associated with refunds and liquidated damages will not be material. Under the realigned business of providing turn-key solutions to our smart phone customers, we will outsource the assembly of final handset products to third-party companies. Any failure of such assembly companies in timely delivering to us the finished products with the stipulated quality will cause us to be liable to our customers. Defects in our mobile handset designs could result in loss of customers and claims against us. Our mobile handset designs are complex and must meet stringent quality requirements. Complex designs such as mobile handset designs sometimes contain defects, errors and bugs when they are first introduced. If any of our designs have reliability, quality or compatibility problems, we may not be able to correct these problems on a timely basis. Consequently, our reputation may be damaged, and customers may be reluctant to continue their contract with us, which could harm our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers. Because we cannot test for all possible scenarios, our product designs may contain errors that are not discovered until mobile handsets have gone into mass production. These problems may result in a loss of our customers as well as claims against us. We face such risk not only in the case of the customers for our handset design services, but also in the case of the customers for our product sales. As our revenues continue to be increasingly dominated by product sales, any design defects in the mobile handsets that we sell to such customers may subject us to liability. We cannot assure you that we will not be subject to claims by our customers in the future, and if we fail on the merits of these claims, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We face risks and uncertainties regarding our games business. Our games business is comparatively new and faces rapidly evolving industry landscape and concepts; as a result, its performance is subject to a high degree of uncertainty. Our operating results with respect to games will continue to depend on numerous factors beyond our control, including: the growth in mobile handset use, personal computer use, Internet use, broadband users, mobile and online games penetration in China and other markets and the rate of any such growth; general economic conditions; the availability of other forms of entertainment; and changes in consumer demographics and public tastes. Our ability to plan for product development, distribution and promotional activities will be significantly affected by our ability to anticipate and adapt to relatively rapid changes in consumer tastes and preferences. There is no assurance that we would able to track and respond to these changes in consumer preferences in a timely and effective manner. Risks Related To Doing Business in China Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our services and materially and adversely affect our competitive position. 12 Table of Contents Our business operations are primarily conducted in China and we believe that a significant portion of the mobile handsets we design are sold to end users in China. Accordingly, our results of operations, financial condition and prospects are subject to a significant degree to the economic, political and legal developments of China. Since the late 1970s, the PRC government has been reforming the economic system in China. These reforms have resulted in significant economic growth. However, we cannot predict the future direction of economic reforms or the effects such measures may have on our business, financial position or results of operations. Any adverse change in the economic conditions in China, in policies of the PRC government or in laws and regulations in China, could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China and investment in the mobile handset industry. Such developments could materially and adversely affect our business, lead to reduction in demand for our services and materially and adversely affect our competitive position. If the PRC government finds that the agreements that establish the structure for operating our China business do not comply with PRC government restrictions on foreign investment in the online game and mobile game industry or if our contractual arrangements are found to be inadequate in any way, we could be subject to severe penalties and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. As a Cayman company, we are classified as a foreign enterprise under PRC laws and regulations. Certain PRC regulations restrict foreign ownership of companies that operate mobile games or online games and prohibit foreign and foreign-invested enterprises from applying for or holding the licenses required to operate online games in China or to operate culture-related business on the internet (excluding music). To comply with PRC laws and regulations, we entered into contractual arrangements with Techfaith Interactive, our variable interest entity in the PRC, under which Techfaith Interactive is to operate all of our mobile and online game business in China. Techfaith Interactive holds the necessary license to operate our mobile and online game business in China. We also have similar contractual arrangements with QIGI Technology, our other variable interest entity in the PRC. For details of these contractual arrangements with our variable interest entities, see “Item 4. Information on the Company — A. History and Development of the Company” and Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 20-F. These contractual arrangements may be subject to reviews by the PRC government from time to time, including under certain recently promulgated circulars and rules. See “— Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us.” If the relevant government authorities find that these agreements do not comply with the relevant laws and regulations, we may be subject to severe penalties and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Under the abovementioned arrangements, shareholders of our variable interest entities have pledged all of their equity interests in the relevant variable interest entities to our wholly-owned subsidiaries. Techfaith Interactive has registered its equity pledge with the relevant local administration for industry and commerce; QIGI Technology is in the process of such registration and expects to complete such registration in 2012. Until an equity pledge agreement is registered, we may not be able to successfully enforce the relevant pledge against any third parties who may acquire the equity interests in the relevant variable interest entity in good faith. Nevertheless, the current lack of registration of duly executed equity pledge agreements for QIGI Technology does not affect our ability to enforce the agreements against the current shareholders of QIGI Technology if necessary. Our business benefits from certain tax incentives, and changes to these tax incentives could adversely affect our operating results. Our income tax is primarily governed by the new Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. Prior to December 31, 2008, Techfaith China, Techfaith Intelligent Handset Beijing and Techfaith Shanghai applied for High and New Tech Enterprises, or HNTE, status that would allow for a reduced applicable tax rate of 15% under the EIT Law. The official HNTE certificates were issued to Techfaith China, Techfaith Intelligent Handset Beijing and Techfaith Shanghai on December 24, 2008. One Net has obtained the new HNTE certificate in September 2011 under the New EIT Law. Beginning from 2011, the income tax rate for One Net is 15%.While the certificates are valid for three years, we believe we will be able to reapply successfully for the renewal of the current certificates as we believe we will continue to meet the published criteria. Accordingly, Techfaith China, Techfaith Intelligent Handset Beijing and Techfaith Shanghai have used the reduced applicable tax rate in calculating deferred tax balances for the foreseeable future. Some of our Chinese subsidiaries, including TechSoft and Techfaith Hangzhou, also enjoyed various income tax exemptions because they were qualified as “production enterprises” before January 1, 2008. Based on the transition rules of the EIT Law, those Chinese subsidiaries continue to enjoy preferential tax rates from 2008 through 2012 due to the preferential tax qualification obtained prior to January 1, 2008. Those subsidiaries in China will not continue to receive such preferential tax treatment after the transition period. There is no assurance that our subsidiaries in China will continue to receive any other preferential income tax treatment. If any of these incentives are reduced or eliminated by government authorities in the future, the effective tax rates of our subsidiaries in China and our effective tax rates on a consolidated basis could increase significantly. Any such change could adversely affect our operating results. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Regulations — Tax.” 13 Table of Contents Under the EIT Law and its implementation rules, dividends payable by a foreign-invested enterprise in China to its foreign investors who are non-resident enterprises are subject to a 10% withholding tax, unless any such foreign investor’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty or similar arrangement with China that provides for a different withholding arrangement. Dividends of our PRC subsidiaries that are directly held by our Hong Kong subsidiary historically benefited from a reduced withholding tax rate of 5% under the arrangement to avoid double taxation between Hong Kong and the PRC. However, under recently implemented PRC regulations, now our Hong Kong subsidiary must obtain approval from the competent local branch of the State Administration of Taxation in order to enjoy the 5% preferential withholding tax rate in accordance with the double-taxation agreement between the PRC and Hong Kong. As stipulated in implementing rules published in year 2009, our Hong Kong subsidiary shall fulfill the requirement for “beneficial owner” of the dividend to enjoy the preferential withholding tax rate but given the relatively short history of these implementing rules, but we cannot assure you that our Hong Kong subsidiary would be able to qualify for the 5% preferential withholding tax rate in the future. Our subsidiaries in China are subject to restrictions on dividend payments, or making other payments to us or any other affiliated company. We are a holding company incorporated in the Cayman Islands. We conduct substantially all of our operations through our subsidiaries in China. Current PRC regulations permit our subsidiaries in China to pay dividends only out of their respective accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. In addition, our subsidiaries in China are each required to set aside at least 10% of their respective after tax profits each year, if any, to fund certain reserve funds until the cumulative amount of such reserves reaches 50% of its registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. In addition, if any of our subsidiaries in China incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict the subsidiary’s ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us. We may be treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes under the EIT Law, which may subject us to PRC income tax for our income originated both within and outside the PRC and PRC income tax withholding for any dividends we pay to our non-PRC shareholders. Under the EIT Law and relevant implementing rules, enterprises established under the laws of non-PRC jurisdictions, but whose de facto management body is located in the PRC, may be treated as “resident enterprises” for PRC tax purposes. The implementing rules of the EIT Law define de facto management as having substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties of the enterprise. The guidance currently available for the definition of “de facto management body” as well as the determination of offshore incorporated PRC tax resident is set forth in a notice and a bulletin issued by the PRC State Administration of Taxation, or SAT, in 2009 and 2011, respectively. The notice and the bulletin apply to a Chinese-controlled offshore incorporated enterprise, which is incorporated under the law of a foreign country or territory and that has a PRC company or PRC corporate group as its primary controlling shareholder. See “Item 4 Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Regulation — Tax”. Based on our analysis of the current facts, we believe that Techfaith and its overseas subsidiaries should not be treated as resident enterprises for PRC tax purposes. However, it continues to be unclear as to how tax authorities will determine tax residency based on the facts of each case. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, our calculation of income taxes generally reflects our status as a non-China tax resident company. If the PRC governmental authorities hold that Techfaith or its overseas subsidiaries should be treated as a “resident enterprise” for PRC tax purposes after January 1, 2008, the effective date of the EIT Law, our worldwide income will be subject to PRC income tax at the 25% uniform tax rate, but will exclude any dividend income we receive from our domestic subsidiaries, which are exempted taxable income under the EIT Law. If we and our overseas subsidiaries are treated as “resident enterprises” and are required to pay income tax for dividends paid to our offshore subsidiaries which are not treated as “resident enterprises”, it will materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. With the 10% PRC dividend withholding tax imposed by the EIT Law in 2008, we will incur an incremental PRC tax cost when PRC profits are distributed to ultimate shareholders. In addition, if we are determined to be a PRC resident enterprise under the new PRC tax system and receive income other than dividends, our profitability and cash flow would be adversely impacted due to our worldwide income being taxed in China under the new PRC tax law. Moreover, under the EIT Law, foreign ADS holders may be subject to a 10% withholding tax upon dividends payable by us and gains realized on the sale or other disposition of ADSs or ordinary shares, if such income is sourced from within the PRC. Although our company is incorporated in the Cayman Islands, it remains unclear whether the dividends payable by us or the gains our foreign ADS holders may realize will be regarded as income from sources within the PRC if we are classified as a PRC resident enterprise. Any such tax on our dividend payments will reduce the returns of your investment. Fluctuation in the value of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on your investment. 14 Table of Contents The conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including U.S. dollars, is based on rates set by the People’s Bank of China. The PRC government allowed the Renminbi to appreciate by more than 20% against the U.S. dollar between July 2005 and July 2008. Between July 2008 and June 2010, this appreciation was halted and the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar remained within a narrow band. As a consequence, the RMB fluctuated significantly during that period against other freely traded currencies, in tandem with the U.S. dollar. Since June 2010, the PRC government has allowed the Renminbi to appreciate slowly against the U.S. dollar again. It is difficult to predict how market forces or PRC or U.S. government policy may impact the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar in the future. There remains significant international pressure on the Chinese government to adopt a substantial liberalization of its currency policy, which could result in further appreciation in the value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. To the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into RMB for capital expenditures and working capital and other business purposes, appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the RMB amount we would receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert RMB into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or ADSs, strategic acquisitions or investments or other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the RMB would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. The M&A Rule sets forth complex procedures for acquisitions conducted by foreign investors which could make it more difficult to pursue growth through acquisitions. The Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Rule, sets forth complex procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the Ministry of Commerce be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise. We may expand our business in part by acquiring complementary businesses or assets in China. Complying with the requirements of the M&A Rule to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the Ministry of Commerce, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. The principal regulation governing foreign currency exchange in China is the Foreign Currency Administration Rules, as amended. Under these rules, RMB are freely convertible for trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not for direct investment, loan or investment in securities outside China unless the prior approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, is obtained. Although the PRC government regulations now allow greater convertibility of RMB for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain. For example, foreign exchange transactions under our subsidiaries’ capital account, including principal payments in respect of foreign currency-denominated obligations, remain subject to significant foreign exchange controls and the approval of SAFE. SAFE issued regulations that require approvals from, and registrations with, PRC government authorities in connection with direct or indirect offshore investment activities by PRC residents and PRC corporate entities. The SAFE regulations retroactively require approval and registration of direct or indirect investments previously made by PRC residents in offshore companies. In the event that a PRC shareholder with a direct or indirect stake in an offshore parent company fails to obtain the required SAFE approval and make the required registration, the PRC subsidiaries of such offshore parent company may be prohibited from making distributions of profit to the offshore parent and from paying the offshore parent proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation in respect of the PRC subsidiaries. Further, failure to comply with the various SAFE approval and registration requirements described above, as currently drafted, could result in liability under PRC law for foreign exchange evasion. Because a majority of our business operations is in China, these regulations could result in the relevant PRC government authorities limiting or eliminating our ability to purchase and retain currencies other than the RMB in the future, which could limit or eliminate our ability to fund any business activities we may have outside China or to make dividend payments in U.S. dollars in the future. PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident shareholders to personal liability and limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us, or otherwise adversely affect us. SAFE issued a public notice in November 2005 requiring PRC residents to register with the local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China for the purpose of capital financing, referred to in the notice as a “special purpose offshore company.” PRC residents that are shareholders of special purpose offshore companies established before November 1, 2005 were required to register with the local SAFE branch before March 31, 2006. We have notified beneficial owners of our company who we know are PRC residents to register with the local SAFE branch if they are required to register under the SAFE notice. The failure or inability of beneficial owners of our company resident in the PRC to comply with the registration procedures set forth therein may subject such beneficial owners to fines and legal sanctions and may also limit our ability to contribute additional capital into our PRC subsidiary and our PRC subsidiary’s ability to distribute profits to our company or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business. 15 Table of Contents Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us. We conduct substantially all of our business through our subsidiaries established in China. Our subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China and, in particular, PRC laws applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises and Sino-foreign joint ventures. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since the PRC legal system is still evolving, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties. For example, in August 2011, the Ministry of Commerce, or MOFCOM, promulgated the Rules of Ministry of Commerce on Implementation of Security Review System of Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the MOFCOM Security Review Rules, to implement an earlier circular of the General Office of the State Counsel. The MOFCOM Security Review Rules came into effect on September 1, 2011. Under these circulars and rules, a MOFCOM security review is required for foreign investors’ mergers and acquisitions having “national defense and security” implications and mergers and acquisitions by which foreign investors may acquire “de facto control” of domestic enterprises having “national security” implications. In addition, when deciding whether a specific merger or acquisition of a domestic enterprise by foreign investors is subject to a security review, MOFCOM will look into the substance and actual impact of the transaction. The MOFCOM Security Review Rules further prohibit foreign investors from bypassing the security review requirement through various means, including by structuring transactions through proxies, indirect investments and control through contractual arrangements. There is no explicit provision or official interpretation stating that our mobile game business or online game business is subject to security review, and review is not required for mergers and acquisitions transactions already completed prior to the promulgation of Circular No. 6. As we have already obtained “de facto control” over our variable interest entities prior to the effectiveness of these abovementioned circulars and rules, we do not believe we are required to submit our existing contractual arrangement to the MOFCOM for a security review. However, as these circulars and rules are relatively new and there is a lack of clear statutory interpretation regarding the implementation of the rules, there is no assurance that the MOFCOM will have the same view as we do when applying these circulars and rules. Such abovementioned uncertainties may limit legal protections available to us and materially and adversely affect our business. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. The laws and regulations governing Internet-related businesses in China are developing and subject to future changes. If we or any of our PRC operating subsidiaries or variable interest entities fail to obtain or maintain all applicable permits and approvals, our business and operations may be materially and adversely affected. All Internet-related businesses in China are highly regulated by the PRC government. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Regulation.” Techfaith Interactive, through which we operate our online games business in the PRC, is required to obtain applicable permits or approvals from different regulatory authorities in order to operate online games. If Techfaith Interactive fails to obtain or maintain any of the required permits or approvals or if any of our practice is later challenged by government authorities, we may also be subject to various penalties, including fines and the discontinuation of or restriction on our operations. Any such disruption in business operations may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. New laws and regulations may be adopted in the future to address new issues that arise from time to time, such as online advertising and the use of virtual currency in online games. Also, different regulatory authorities may have different views regarding the licensing requirements for the operation of online games and related businesses. As a result, there is, and will continue to be, substantial uncertainty in the interpretation and implementation of current and any future PRC laws and regulations applicable to the online game industry and related businesses. While we believe that we are in material compliance with all applicable PRC laws and regulations currently in effect, we cannot assure you that we will not be found to be in violation of any current or future PRC laws and regulations in the future. Additional government regulations resulting from negative publicity in China regarding Internet-related aspects of our business or otherwise may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Currently there are no laws or regulations in the PRC specifically governing virtual asset property rights and if we, in operating any online games, are found to have liabilities regarding losses of virtual assets, our business and operations maybe materially and adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents In the course of playing online games, some virtual assets, such as special equipment, player experience grades and other features of a user’s game characters, are acquired and accumulated. Such virtual assets can be important to online game players and in some cases are exchanged between players for monetary value. Virtual assets can be lost for various reasons, often through unauthorized use of the game account of one user by other users and occasionally through data loss caused by a network service delay or by a network crash. It is unclear under PRC law whether an operator of online games such as Techfaith Interactive would have any liability to game players or other interested parties (whether in contract, tort or otherwise) for loss of such virtual assets by game players. Several past judgments by PRC courts have required the online game operators to return the virtual items or be liable for the loss and damage incurred from the loss of the virtual items. In case of a loss of virtual assets, Techfaith Interactive may be sued and may be held liable for damages, which may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Regulations.” The audit report included in this annual report are prepared by auditors who are not inspected by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as such, you are deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Our independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission, as auditors of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the US Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or PCAOB, is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because our auditors are located in the Peoples’ Republic of China, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the Chinese authorities, our auditors are not currently inspected by the PCAOB. Inspections of other firms that the PCAOB has conducted outside China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. This lack of PCAOB inspections in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating our auditor’s audits and its quality control procedures. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of auditors in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors outside of China that are subject to PCAOB inspections. Investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. Risks Related to Shares and ADSs The future sales by our existing shareholders of a substantial number of our ADSs in the public market could adversely affect the price of our ADSs. If our existing shareholders sell substantial amounts of our ADSs in the public market, the market price of our ADSs could fall. Such sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. As of the date of this annual report, our management collectively beneficially owns approximately 32.1% of our outstanding shares. They and the other shareholders with registration rights may cause us to register the sale of their shares under the Securities Act. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in these shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act immediately upon the effectiveness of the registration. On June 9, 2009, to finance the development of our game business, our subsidiary Leo Technology Limited, now renamed 798 Entertainment Limited, issued US$10 million of common equity to the Hong Kong-based venture capital firm Infiniti Capital Limited and US$10 million aggregate principal amount of 8% senior secured convertible promissory notes with a maturity date of three years to IDG-Accel China Growth Fund II L.P. and IDG-Accel China Investors II L.P., or the IDG Funds, which are entities affiliated with IDGVC Partners, a leading venture capital firm. The notes were convertible into our ordinary shares or Leo Technology Limited’s ordinary shares at the option of the note holders. According to the relevant investor rights agreement, each of the IDG Funds chose to convert 62.5% of its share of the principal amount of the 8% senior secured convertible promissory notes into TechFaith’s ordinary shares, and the remaining 37.5% was converted into shares of 798 Entertainment Limited on September 8, 2010, and as a result of the conversion, TechFaith issued 78,814,628 of TechFaith’s ordinary shares to IDG Funds. As of the date of this annual report, IDG Funds have met the terms and conditions for resale under Rule 144 of the Securities Act in relation to these shares, represented by 5,254,309 ADSs, and may offer and sell such ADSs from time to time on the open market. Sales of the above-mentioned registered shares and other shares in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. The market price for our ADSs has been and may continue to be volatile. 17 Table of Contents The market price for our ADSs has been and may continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • conditions in the markets for mobile handsets and games; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other mobile handset design houses, original design product providers or manufacturers; • performance of other China-based companies that are listed on NASDAQ; • announcements by us or our competitors of new products, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • addition or departure of key personnel; and • fluctuations of exchange rates between the RMB and U.S. dollar. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. In particular, the global financial crisis and the ensuing deteriorating global economic conditions have caused and may continue to cause extreme volatility in the global stock markets. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our ADSs, regardless of our operating performance. Volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may also adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, some of whom have been granted options or other equity incentives. We may need additional capital, and the sale of additional ADSs or other equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for the next 12 months. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If these resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and our ability to protect our rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association and by the Companies Law and common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and provides significantly less protection to investors. Therefore, our public shareholders may have more difficulties in protecting their interests in the face of actions by our management, directors or controlling shareholders than would public shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action before the federal courts of the United States. As a result, we may not be able to protect our interests if we are harmed in a manner that would otherwise enable us to sue in a United States federal court. Your ability to bring an action against us or against our directors and officers, or to enforce a judgment against us or them, will be limited because we are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, because we conduct a substantial portion of our operations in China and because the majority of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, and we conduct a substantial portion of our operations in China through our wholly owned subsidiaries and variable interest entities in China. Most of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States and most of the assets of those persons are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. 18 Table of Contents You may not be able to exercise your right to vote. As a holder of ADSs, you may instruct the depositary of our ADSs to vote the shares underlying your ADSs but only if we ask the depositary to ask for your instructions. Otherwise, you will not be able to exercise your right to vote unless you withdraw the shares. However, you may not know about the meeting enough in advance to withdraw the shares. If we ask for your instructions, the depositary will notify you of the upcoming vote and arrange to deliver our voting materials to you. We cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your shares. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions or for the manner of carrying out voting instructions. This means that you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and there may be nothing you can do if the shares underlying your ADSs are not voted as you requested. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act, or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Also, under the deposit agreement, the depositary bank will not make those rights available to you unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act, or exempt from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. You may not receive distributions on ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical to make them available to you. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it decides that it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. We have no obligation to register ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or other securities under U.S. securities laws. We also have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of ADSs. This means that you may not receive the distribution we make on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available to you. These restrictions may have a material adverse effect on the value of your ADSs. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary thinks it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. We are controlled by a small group of our existing shareholders, whose interests may differ from other shareholders. As of the date of this annual report, our directors and executive officers as a group beneficially own 32.1% ordinary shares of our company, of which Mr. Defu Dong, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owns 254,695,000 ordinary shares (constituting approximately 32.1% of our current total issued and outstanding shares), and have the power to vote on behalf of the record holders of these shares over matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including electing directors and approving mergers or other business combination transactions. This concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our ADSs. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequences to U.S. Holders. Based on the price of the ADSs and our ordinary shares, the composition of our income and assets and our operations, we believe that it is likely that we were classified as a “passive foreign investment company,” (or a “PFIC”), for United States federal income tax purposes for our taxable year ended December 31, 2011, and we will very likely be a PFIC for our current taxable year ending December 31, 2012 unless our share value increases and/or we invest a substantial amount of the cash and other passive assets we hold in assets that produce or are held for the production of active income. A non-U.S. corporation will be considered a PFIC for any taxable year if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets during a taxable year) is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. The value of our assets is generally determined by reference to the market price of our ADSs and ordinary shares. If we were treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. Holder held an ADS or an ordinary share, certain adverse United States federal income tax consequences could apply to the U.S. Holder. See “Item 10. Additional Information — E. Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation — Passive Foreign Investment Company.” 19 Table of Contents 