ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other documents we file with the SEC are descriptions of the risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We may not be successful in implementing our strategic priorities, which may have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results. In 2008, we defined strategic priorities we believe necessary to revitalize the Company for future growth and long-term stockholder value, including: • building a customer first “operationally focused” service culture; • building a retail food capability across all four day parts (breakfast, lunch, afternoon, and dinner); • accelerating the development of franchise and non-traditional store; • building a consumer products growth platform; and • continuing to implement a disciplined expense reduction plan. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement these strategic priorities or whether these strategic priorities will be successful, either of which will impede our growth and operating results. The failure to control our cost and expense structure could have a material adverse impact on our profitability and earnings. As part of our revitalization efforts, we have been able to reduce both our store level expenses and our general and administrative expense. However, we will need to continue to control our costs and expenses as we focus on our strategic priorities. Any unplanned increases in store costs, marketing expenditures, or general and administrative expenses could delay us from achieving sustained profitability or otherwise have a material adverse impact on our operating results and profitability. See Financing and Liquidity Risks below. A worsening of economic conditions, a decrease in consumer spending, or a change in the competitive conditions in this market may substantially decrease our revenues and may adversely impact our ability to implement our business strategy. Our success depends to a significant extent on discretionary consumer spending, which is influenced by general economic conditions and the availability of discretionary income. In 2008, we saw many consumers facing steep mortgage payments, tightening credit and rising energy and food prices, which adversely affected consumer spending. Accordingly, we may experience continuing declines in revenue during economic turmoil or during periods of uncertainty. Any material decline in the amount of discretionary spending, leading cost- conscious consumers to be more selective in restaurants visited, could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, results of operations, business and financial condition. 17 Table of Contents We must successfully gauge dietary and consumer preferences to succeed. Our success depends, in part, upon the popularity of our products and our ability to develop new menu items that appeal to consumers across all four day parts. Shifts in consumer preferences away from our products, our inability to develop new menu items that appeal to consumers across all day parts, or changes in our menu that eliminate items popular with some consumers could harm our business. In 2008, we rolled out several new products on a system-wide basis to anchor our new breakfast platform, including hot oatmeal, and tested wraps, sandwiches and salads. These new products are designed to feature healthy, on-the-go items to attract new customers, increase the frequency of current customer visits, create a point of differentiation, and provide a more complete meal solution for our customers across all day parts. To the extent we misjudge the market for our products, our sales will be adversely affected, which will negatively impact our operating results. In addition, with new menu items, we must anticipate and effectively respond to changing product mix ramifications. These new products have new and different ingredients, vendors, lead times, packaging, and operational requirements than our existing products. Accordingly, our business may be harmed by unanticipated consequences such as an adverse effect on speed of service and higher cost of goods of these new products that could lead to suboptimal selection and timing of product purchases or subpar operational execution. Some of the new menu items we plan to introduce may involve utilizing a different distribution system than we are currently using for our products. Accordingly, our business may be harmed to the extent we are unable to economically and efficiently implement a different distribution system for new menu items. We may not persuade customers of the benefits of paying premium prices for higher-quality food. Our success depends in large part on our ability to persuade customers to pay premium prices for our freshly blended beverages. We may not successfully educate customers about the quality and benefits of our product offerings, and customers may not care. Failure to maintain premium pricing could require us to change our pricing, products, and strategies, which would adversely affect our brand identity. Our inability to compete with the many food services businesses may result in reductions in our revenue and operating margins. We compete with many well-established companies, food service and otherwise, on the basis of taste, quality and price of product offered, customer service, atmosphere, location and overall guest experience. We compete with other smoothie and juice bar retailers, specialty coffee retailers, yogurt and ice cream shops, bagel shops, fast-food restaurants, delicatessens, cafés, take-out food service companies, supermarkets and convenience stores. Our competitors change with each of the four day parts, ranging from coffee bars and bakery cafés to casual dining chains. Aggressive pricing by our competitors or the entrance of new competitors into our markets could reduce our revenue and operating margins. We also compete with other employers in our markets for hourly workers and may become subject to higher labor costs as a result of such competition. Our revenue is subject to volatility based on weather and varies by season. Seasonal factors also cause our revenue to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Our revenue is typically lower during the winter months and the holiday season and during periods of inclement weather (because fewer people choose cold beverages) and higher during the Spring, Summer and Fall months (for the opposite reason). New stores, once opened, may not be profitable, and the increases in average store revenue and comparable store revenue that we have experienced in the past may not be indicative of future results. Historically, our new stores have opened with an initial ramp-up period typically lasting approximately 24 months or more, during which they generated revenue and profit below the levels at which we expect them to normalize. This is in part due to the time it takes to build a customer base in a new market, higher fixed costs 18 Table of Contents relating to increased construction and occupancy costs and other start-up inefficiencies that are typical of new stores. New stores may neither be profitable nor have results comparable to our existing stores. In addition, our average store revenue and comparable store revenue may not continue to increase at the rates achieved over the past several years. The ability to operate new stores profitably and increase average store revenue and comparable store revenue will depend on many factors, some of which are beyond our control or the control of our franchisees, including many of the risks described herein. If new stores don’t perform as planned, our business and future prospects could be harmed. In addition, changes in our average store revenue or comparable store revenue could cause our operating results to vary adversely from expectations. Fluctuations in various food and supply costs, particularly fruit and dairy, could adversely affect our operating results. Supplies and prices of the various products that we use to prepare our offerings can be affected by a variety of factors, such as weather, seasonal fluctuations, demand, politics and economics in the producing countries. These factors subject us to shortages or interruptions in product supplies, which could adversely affect our revenue and profits. In addition, the prices of fruit and dairy, which are the main products in our offerings, can be highly volatile. The fruit of the quality we seek tends to trade on a negotiated basis, depending on supply and demand at the time of the purchase. An increase in pricing of any fruit that we use in our products could have a significant adverse effect on our profitability. If we are unable to pass along increased fruit and dairy costs, our margin will decrease and our profitability will suffer accordingly. In addition, higher diesel and gasoline prices may affect our supply costs and may affect our revenue going forward. For example, in some cases higher diesel prices have resulted in the imposition of surcharges on the delivery of commodities to its distributors, which they have generally passed on to us to the extent permitted under our arrangements with them. To help mitigate the risks of volatile commodity prices and to allow greater predictability in pricing, we typically enter into fixed price or to-be-fixed priced purchase commitments for a portion of our fruit and dairy requirements. We cannot assure you that these activities will be successful or that they will not result in our paying substantially more for our fruit supply than would have been required absent such activities. We do have some multi-year pricing agreements with certain vendors. Declines in sales may also adversely affect our business to the extent we have purchase commitments in excess of our needs. The Company actively works with its vendors under such contracts to mitigate any such “long” positions by authorizing the vendors to sell such products to other customers or by more actively promoting sales of offerings that contain such products, but there is no guarantee that the Company will be successful in its mitigation efforts. We are primarily dependent upon one supplier for a significant amount of our food distribution. We maintain food distribution contracts primarily with one supplier. This supplier, Southwest Traders, Inc., provided approximately 81% of cost of sales for each of our fiscal years 2008 and 2007, approximately 82% of cost of sales in fiscal 2006, and approximately 85% of cost of sales in Jamba Juice Company’s fiscal 2006, which potentially subjects us to a concentration of business risk. If this supplier had operational problems, our operations could be adversely affected. We may face difficulties entering into new or modified arrangements with existing or new suppliers or new service providers. If we expand our operations into new geographic areas through new Company Stores or franchises, we may have to seek new suppliers and service providers or enter into new arrangements with existing ones. We may also encounter difficulties or be unable to negotiate pricing or other terms as favorable as those we currently enjoy, which could harm our business and operating results. If we cannot replace or engage new arrangements, suppliers and/or service providers in a cost effective basis, we may need to change our purchasing practices, remove items from the menu, or make menu price adjustments. These activities could negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Our business could be adversely affected by increased labor costs or labor shortages. Labor is a primary component in the cost of operating our business. We devote significant resources to recruiting and training our team members. A considerable number of the team members employed by us and our franchisees are paid at rates related to the federal minimum wage. In 2008, the federal minimum wage increased from $5.85 to $6.55 and it will increase again in 2009 to $7.25. Additionally, many of our team members work in stores located in states where the minimum wage is greater than the federal minimum and receive compensation equal to the state’s minimum wage. During 2008, we had state minimum wage increases in California, Oregon, New York, Arizona, Washington, Colorado, Illinois and Florida all above the federal minimum wage. In addition, the city of San Francisco itself has a minimum wage requirement greater than the State of California. Any further increases in the federal minimum wage or the enactment of additional state or local minimum wage increases will increase labor costs. If we are unable or unwilling to increase our menu prices or take other actions to offset increased operating costs, our operating results will suffer. Additionally, competition and labor shortages in various markets could result in higher required wage rates. We are subject to all of the risks associated with leasing space subject to long-term non-cancelable leases. We and our franchisees compete for real estate and our or their inability to secure appropriate real estate or lease terms could impact the ability to grow. Our leases generally have initial terms of between five and 15 years, and generally can be extended only in five-year increments if at all. All of our leases require a fixed annual rent, although some require the payment of additional rent if store revenue exceeds a specified amount. Generally, our leases are “net” leases, which require us to pay all of the cost of insurance, taxes, maintenance and utilities. We generally cannot cancel these leases. If an existing or future store is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may nonetheless be committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease including, among other things, paying the base rent for the balance of the lease term. Current locations of our stores and franchised locations may become unattractive as demographic patterns change. In addition, as each of our leases expire, we may fail to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause us to close stores in desirable locations. We may not achieve sales growth plans and other assumptions that support the carrying value of our assets and we may record lease termination costs. The carrying value of our assets is subject to impairment reviews as of the last day of each fiscal quarter or more frequently if deemed necessary due to events or changes in circumstances. We have recorded asset impairment charges, principally related to underperforming Company Stores and, in fiscal 2008, recorded lease termination costs related to store closures. We may experience further asset impairments and lease termination costs in the future. Estimated future cash flows used in these impairment reviews could be negatively impacted if we do not achieve our sales plans, planned cost savings, and other assumptions that support the carrying value of our assets, which could result in potential impairment of further assets or a decision to close additional Company Stores. Our business and results may be subject to disruption from work stoppages, terrorism or natural disasters. Our operations may be subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including work stoppages, acts of war, terrorism, pandemics, fire, earthquake, flooding or other natural disasters. In particular, our corporate offices and support center is located in Northern California, near known earthquake fault lines. If a major earthquake or other natural disaster were to occur in Northern California, our corporate offices and support center may be damaged or destroyed. Such a disruption could result in the temporary or permanent loss of critical data, suspension of operations, delays in shipments of product, and disruption of business in both the affected region and nationwide, which would adversely affect our revenue as a result. 20 Table of Contents The unexpected loss of one or more members of our executive management team could adversely affect our business. We have experienced significant changes in our executive management team in 2008, including the departure of our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chief marketing officer, head of operations, and head of development. We have a new chief executive officer and have internally promoted other members of the executive team and increased their responsibilities. We believe that these individuals understand our operational strategies and new strategic priorities to revitalize our long-term growth and stockholder value. We have entered into employment agreements with each of these individuals, but we cannot make any assurances that we can retain these individuals for the period necessary for us to return to sustained profitability. Competition for personnel in our industry is strong and the ability to retain key employees during a revitalization effort can be difficult. The unexpected future loss of services of one or members of our executive management team could have an adverse effect on our business. If we are unable to retain key executive officers, then it may be difficult for us to maintain a competitive position within our industry or implement our strategic priorities. Our growth strategy depends on increasing franchise ownership. There were 511 Company Stores and 218 Franchise Stores open as of December 30, 2008. Our recent growth strategy is to transition from a Company Store model to a model more evenly weighted between Company Stores and Franchise Stores. This strategy is subject to risks and uncertainties. We may not be able to identify franchisee candidates with appropriate experience and financial resources or to negotiate mutually acceptable agreements with them. Our franchisee candidates may not be able to obtain financing at acceptable rates and terms. We may not be able to increase the percentage of franchised stores at the annual rate we desire or achieve the ownership mix of franchise stores to Company Stores that we desire. Risks Related to Franchise Operations The opening and success of franchised stores depend on various factors, including the following: • the demand for our franchises; • the selection of appropriate franchisee candidates; • financing capital expenditures; • locating and securing an adequate supply of new store sites; • competition for sites and for business; • negotiating leases with acceptable terms; • hiring and training qualified operating personnel in local markets; • managing construction and development costs of new stores at affordable levels, particularly in competitive markets; • the availability of construction materials and labor; • the availability of, and their ability to obtain, adequate supplies of ingredients that meet our quality standards; • the impact of inclement weather, natural disasters and other calamities; and • securing required governmental approvals (including construction, parking and other permits) in a timely manner. As the number of franchisees increase, our revenues derived from royalties at franchise stores will increase, as will the risk that revenues could be negatively impacted by defaults in the payment of royalties. 21 Table of Contents Expansion into new geographic markets may present increased risks. Franchise growth is planned in new geographic areas in the United States. Our future results, and the results of new franchise stores, depend on various factors, including successful selection and expansion into these new geographic markets and market acceptance of the Jamba Juice experience. Those markets may have different competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns than our existing markets. As a result, those new stores may be less successful than stores in our existing markets. Consumers in a new market may not be familiar with the Jamba Juice brand, and we may need to build brand awareness in that market through greater investments in advertising and promotional activity than we originally planned. Franchisees may find it more difficult in new markets to hire, motivate and keep qualified employees who can project our vision, passion and culture. Stores opened in new markets may also have lower average store revenue than stores opened in existing markets, and may have higher construction, occupancy or operating costs than stores in existing markets. Furthermore, we may have difficulty in finding reliable suppliers or distributors or ones that can provide us, either initially or over time, with adequate supplies of ingredients meeting our quality standards. Revenue at stores opened in new markets may take longer to ramp up and reach expected revenue levels, and may never do so, thereby affecting overall royalty income. As with the experience of other retail food concepts who have tried to expand nationally, we may find that the Jamba Juice concept has limited or no appeal to customers in new markets or we may experience a decline in the popularity of the Jamba Juice experience. Newly opened franchise stores may not succeed, future markets and stores may not be successful and, even if we are successful, our average store revenue, and the royalty income generated therefrom, may not increase at historical rates. Termination or non-renewal of franchise agreements may disrupt store performance. Each franchise agreement is subject to termination by us in the event of default by the franchisee after the applicable cure periods. Upon the expiration of the initial term of a franchise agreement, the franchisee generally has an option to renew for an additional term. There is no assurance that franchisees will meet the criteria for renewal or will desire or be able to renew their franchise agreements. If not renewed, a franchise agreement and payments required thereunder will terminate. We may be unable to find a new franchisee to replace such lost revenue. Furthermore, while we will be entitled to terminate franchise agreements following a default that is not cured within the applicable cure period, if any, the disruption to the performance of the stores could materially and adversely affect our business. Our franchising strategy means we will become more dependent on franchisees for their success. Several of our franchisees have been experiencing financial pressures, which, in certain instances, became more exacerbated during 2008. Our franchisees closed 12 stores in fiscal 2008 and may close additional stores in the future. Royalty revenues are directly correlated to sales by franchise stores and, accordingly, franchise store closures have an adverse effect on our revenues, results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, an insolvency or bankruptcy proceeding involving a franchisee could prevent us from collecting payments or exercising any of our other rights under the related franchise agreement. Our re-franchising strategy may not be successful. We are implementing a strategy to refranchise in certain geographic markets. Given the current risks and financing challenges associated with becoming a franchisee of a restaurant retailer in the current economy, we cannot predict the likelihood of re-franchising any such markets or the amount of any proceeds that might be received therefrom, including the amounts that might be realized from the sale of store assets and from any related franchise agreements. Re-franchising could result in the recognition of impairment losses on the related assets. Additionally, in certain instances, there may be change in control provisions in the lease which require us to get landlord consent for a re-franchising transaction. Failure of a landlord to consent to the assumption of a lease from us by a franchisee could cause us to remain liable for such lease obligations either as a guarantor or a sublessor. 22 Table of Contents Our franchisees could take actions that harm our reputation and reduce our royalty revenue. Franchisees are independent contractors and are not our employees. Further, we do not exercise control over the day-to-day operations of our franchise stores. Any operational or development shortcomings of our franchise stores are likely to be attributed to our system-wide operations and could adversely affect our reputation and have a direct negative impact on the royalty revenue we receive from those stores. We could face liability from our franchisee and from government agencies. A franchisee or government agency may bring legal action against us based on the franchisor/franchisee relationship. Various state and federal laws govern our relationship with our franchisees and our potential sale of a franchise. If we fail to comply with these laws, we could be liable for damages to franchisees, fines or other penalties. Expensive litigation with our franchisees or government agencies may adversely affect both our profits and our important relations with our franchisees. We periodically acquire existing Jamba Juice stores from our franchisees, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Historically, we have acquired Jamba Juice stores from our franchisees either by negotiated agreement or exercise of our rights of first refusal or purchase option under the franchise or area development agreement. Any acquisition that we undertake involves risks, including, our ability to successfully and profitably transition acquired franchise stores into Company Stores. Failure to do so effectively could strain our financial and management resources as well as negatively impact our results of operations. If we expand into foreign markets we will be exposed to new uncertainties and risks, which could negatively impact our results of operations. We are exploring expanding our operations into new foreign markets, which will expose us to new risks and uncertainties, including product supply, consumer preferences, occupancy costs, operating expenses and labor and infrastructure challenges. In addition, consumers in a foreign market may not be familiar with the Jamba Juice brand, and we may need to build brand awareness in that market through greater investments in advertising and promotional activity. Finally, international operations have inherent risks such as foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the application and effect of local laws and regulations and enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights. Our failure to manage our growth effectively could harm our business and operating results. Our existing management, financial, and other resources may be inadequate to support our franchise growth strategy. Managing our growth effectively will require us to continue to enhance our financial and management controls and informational and operations systems. We may not respond quickly enough to the changing demands that our growth will impose on our management, employees and existing infrastructure. Our failure to manage our growth effectively could harm our business and operating results. Governmental regulation may adversely affect our ability to open new stores or otherwise adversely affect our existing and future operations and results. We and our franchisees are subject to various federal, state and local regulations. Each of our stores is subject to state and local licensing and regulation by health, sanitation, food and workplace safety and other agencies. We and our franchisees may experience material difficulties or failures in obtaining the necessary licenses or approvals for new stores, which could delay planned store openings. In addition, stringent and varied requirements of local regulators with respect to zoning, land use and environmental factors could delay or prevent development of new stores in particular locations. 23 Table of Contents We and our franchisees are subject to the U.S. Americans with Disabilities Act and similar state laws that give civil rights protections to individuals with disabilities in the context of employment, public accommodations and other areas. We and our franchisees may in the future have to modify stores, for example by adding access ramps or redesigning certain architectural fixtures, to provide service to or make reasonable accommodations for disabled persons. The expenses associated with these modifications could be material. Our operations are also subject to the U.S. Fair Labor Standards Act, which governs such matters as minimum wages, overtime and other working conditions, along with the U.S. Americans with Disabilities Act, family leave mandates and a variety of similar laws enacted by the states that govern these and other employment law matters. In recent years, there has been an increased legislative, regulatory and consumer focus on nutrition and advertising practices in the food industry. Establishments operating in the quick-service and fast-casual segments have been a particular focus. For example, many state and local jurisdictions have adopted a regulation requiring that restaurants that make calorie information publicly available must include that information on their menus and menu boards. We may in the future become subject to other initiatives in the area of nutrition and calorie disclosure or advertising, such as requirements to provide information about the nutritional and calorie content of our food, which could increase our expenses. Government mandatory healthcare requirements could adversely affect our profits. The Company pays a substantial part of the healthcare benefits for team members at the General Manager level and above and for those working at the Company’s corporate office. Other team members can purchase more limited healthcare benefits. Legislation is being proposed at the federal and state levels mandating employers to either provide health care coverage to their employees or pay into a fund that would provide coverage for them. If this type of legislation is enacted in additional geographic areas where we do business, it could have an adverse effect on our profits. Our federal, state and local tax returns may, from time to time, be selected for audit by the taxing authorities, which may result in tax assessments, interest or penalties that could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial position. We are subject to federal, state and local taxes in the U.S. In making tax estimates and paying taxes, significant judgment is often required. Although we believe our tax positions and estimates are reasonable, if a taxing authority disagrees with the positions taken by the Company, we could have an additional tax liability, including interest and penalties. If material, payment of such additional amounts could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. We could be party to litigation that could adversely affect us by distracting management, increasing our expenses or subjecting us to material money damages and other remedies. Our customers occasionally file complaints or lawsuits against us alleging that we are responsible for some illness or injury they suffered at or after a visit to our stores, or that we have problems with food quality or operations. We are also subject to a variety of other claims arising in the ordinary course of our business, including personal injury claims, contract claims and claims alleging violations of federal and state law regarding workplace and employment matters, discrimination and similar matters, and we could become subject to class action or other lawsuits related to these or different matters in the future. Regardless of whether any claims against us are valid, or whether we are ultimately held liable, claims may be expensive to defend and may divert time and money away from our operations and hurt our performance. A judgment significantly in excess of our insurance coverage, or for which we are not covered by insurance, could materially and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Any adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may also materially and adversely affect our reputation or prospects, which in turn could adversely affect our results. 24 Table of Contents In addition, the food services industry has been subject to a growing number of claims based on the nutritional content of food products they sell and disclosure and advertising practices. We may also be subject to this type of proceeding in the future and, even if not, publicity about these matters (particularly directed at the quick-service and fast-casual segments of the industry) may harm our reputation or prospects and adversely affect our results. We may also incur costs resulting from other security risks we may face in connection with our electronic processing and transmission of confidential customer information. We rely on commercially available software and other technologies to provide security for processing and transmission of customer credit card data. Approximately 33% of our current revenue is attributable to credit card transactions, and that percentage is expected to climb. Our systems could be compromised in the future, which could result in the misappropriation of customer information or the disruption of systems. Either of those consequences could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and business or subject it to additional liabilities. FINANCING AND LIQUIDITY RISKS Our financing agreement imposes restrictions and obligations upon us that limit our ability to operate our business. Our secured Financing Agreement (the “Financing Agreement”) imposes financial and other restrictive covenants that limit our ability to plan for and respond to changes in our business. Under the agreement, we are required to meet certain financial tests and comply with covenants, which, among other things, limit the incurrence of additional indebtedness, liens, investments, asset sales, acquisitions, and other matters customarily in such agreements. Any failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default under this Financing Agreement. Any default under the Financing Agreement may cause an acceleration of all outstanding amounts due under the Financing Agreement, which, if we do not have adequate cash reserves, could be detrimental to our business operations. In addition, commencing September 11, 2009, the lenders under the Financing Agreement have a put right requiring us to repurchase 2,000,000 shares of common stock held by them at a price of $1.50 per share. Any exercise of this put right could have an adverse effect on our liquidity. The $3.0 million that would be needed to repurchase these shares are classified in restricted cash on our balance sheet. Insufficient cash flows from operations may adversely affect our financial condition. We had a net loss of $149.2 million for fiscal 2008 and a net loss of $113.3 million for fiscal 2007. These results have had a negative impact on our financial condition and operating cash flows. We believe the implementation of our strategic priorities will lead to our ability to sustain profitability. Our primary sources of liquidity include cash on hand as a result of the borrowing made under our Financing Agreement, a federal income tax refund of $5.2 million received in February 2009, expected availability of restricted cash and cash flows from operations. We expect that our primary sources of liquidity will be sufficient to fund non-discretionary capital expenditures and working capital through fiscal 2009. However, if we are unable to maintain sufficient working capital, we may be forced to further reduce operating expenses, sell business assets or take other actions, which could be detrimental to our business operations. Furthermore, we may also explore other ways to improve our working capital. Although we believe there are financing alternatives available, additional capital may not be available on a timely basis or on acceptable terms, if at all. Moreover, in the event that any future financing is completed, to the extent it includes equity securities, the holders of our common stock may experience additional dilution. 25 Table of Contents The inability to fund capital expenditures may adversely impact future growth. The success of our future growth will depend, to a significant extent, on our ability to fund the necessary capital expenditures. For example, we plan to build a retail food capability across all four day parts (breakfast, lunch, afternoon and dinner). In addition, two other strategic priorities are to implement various technology initiatives which would promote efficiency in customer service and to embark on a store refresh program in selected Company Stores to revitalize their look and feel. To the extent we are not able to fund the necessary capital expenditures to address these priorities, these priorities may take longer to implement and may not be as successful as we expect, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. RISKS RELATING TO INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm the value of our brand and adversely affect our business. Our intellectual property is material to the conduct of our business. Our ability to implement our business plan successfully depends in part on our ability to build further brand recognition using our trademarks, service marks, trade dress and other proprietary intellectual property, including our name and logos and the unique ambiance of our stores both domestically and overseas. We have secured the ownership and rights to our marks in the United States and have filed or obtained registrations for restaurant services in most other significant foreign jurisdictions. If our efforts to protect our intellectual property are inadequate, or if any third party misappropriates or infringes on our intellectual property, either in print or on the internet, the value of our brands may be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and might prevent our brands from achieving or maintaining market acceptance. While we have not encountered claims from prior users of intellectual property relating to restaurant services in areas where we operate or intend to conduct material operations, there can be no assurances that we will not encounter such claims. If so, this could harm our image, brand or competitive position and cause us to incur significant penalties and costs. The Company’s earnings and growth of alternative distribution channels depends in large part on the success of its business partners, and the Company’s reputation may be harmed by actions taken by third parties. A strategic priority is to seek opportunities to extend the Jamba brand and maximize revenue by leveraging the brand in new and complementary consumer packed product categories. These revenues will be dependent on the success of the licensed products, as well as the capability and execution of our business partner. For example, in 2008, we launched a line of Jamba Ready-to-Drink beverages under an exclusive worldwide licensing agreement with Nestlé USA. In December 2008, Nestlé voluntarily suspended production and shipments of the beverages due to production issues. While Nestlé has announced that it is fully committed to re-assessing its Jamba Ready-to-Drink beverage proposition so that it can come back stronger and positioned for success in the future, there can be no assurance when and if this may happen. In the future, we may enter into agreements with other companies for the retail distribution of other product categories involving the licensing of the Jamba Juice trademarks. Any execution failure by our business partner or failure to adhere to the brand experience and standards expected by our customers may damage our reputation and brand value, which may potentially affect the results of operations. The Company’s success depends on the value of the Jamba brand. The Jamba brand practice is to inspire and simplify healthy living. We believe we must preserve and grow the value of the Jamba brand in order to be successful in building our business and particularly in building a consumer products growth platform. Brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions and the Jamba brand has been highly rated in several brand studies. Our brand building initiatives involve increasing our product 26 Table of Contents offerings and opening new stores to increase awareness of our brand and create and maintain brand loyalty. If our brand building initiatives are unsuccessful, or if business incidents occur which erode consumer perceptions of our brand, then the value of our products may diminish and we may not be able to implement our business strategy. RISKS RELATED TO THE FOOD SERVICE BUSINESS Litigation and publicity concerning food quality, health and other issues, which can result in liabilities and also cause customers to avoid our products, which could adversely affect our results of operations, business and financial condition. Food service businesses can be adversely affected by litigation and complaints from customers or government authorities resulting from food quality, allergens, illness, injury or other health concerns or operating issues stemming from one retail location or a limited number of retail locations. Adverse publicity about these allegations may negatively affect us, regardless of whether the allegations are true, by discouraging customers from buying our products. We could also incur significant liabilities, if a lawsuit or claim results in a decision against us, or litigation costs, regardless of the result. Food safety concerns and instances of food-borne illnesses could harm our customers, result in negative publicity and cause the temporary closure of some stores and, in some cases, could adversely affect the price and availability of fruits and vegetables, any of which could harm our brand reputation, result in a decline in revenue or an increase in costs. We consider food safety a top priority and dedicate substantial resources towards ensuring that our customers enjoy high-quality, safe and wholesome products. However, we cannot guarantee that our internal controls and training will be fully effective in preventing all food-borne illnesses. Furthermore, our reliance on third-party food suppliers and distributors increases the risk that food-borne illness incidents (such as e.coli, hepatitis A, salmonella or listeria) could occur outside of our control and at multiple locations. Instances of food-borne illnesses, whether real or perceived, and whether at our stores or those of our competitors, could harm customers and otherwise result in negative publicity about us or the products we serve, which could adversely affect revenue. If there is an incident involving our stores serving contaminated products, our customers may be harmed, our revenue may decrease and our brand name may be impaired. If our customers become ill from food-borne illnesses, we could be forced to temporarily close some stores. If we react to negative publicity by changing our menu or other key aspects of the Jamba Juice experience, we may lose customers who do not accept those changes, and may not be able to attract enough new customers to produce the revenue needed to make our stores profitable. In addition, we may have different or additional competitors for our intended customers as a result of making any such changes and may not be able to compete successfully against those competitors. Food safety concerns and instances of food-borne illnesses and injuries caused by food contamination have in the past, and could in the future, adversely affect the price and availability of affected ingredients and cause customers to shift their preferences, particularly if we choose to pass any higher ingredient costs along to consumers. As a result, our costs may increase and our revenue may decline. A decrease in customer traffic as a result of these health concerns or negative publicity, or as a result of a change in our menu or dining experience or a temporary closure of any of our stores, could materially harm our business. The food service industry has inherent operational risks that may not be adequately covered by insurance. We may not be adequately insured against all risks and our insurers may not pay a particular claim. Furthermore, in the future, we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates for our operations. We may also be subject to calls, or premiums, in amounts based not only on our own claim records but also the claim records of all other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we 27 Table of Contents receive indemnity insurance coverage for tort liability. Our insurance policies also contain deductibles, limitations and exclusions, which, although we believe are standard in the food service industry, may nevertheless increase our costs. Restaurant companies, including Jamba Juice, have been the target of class action lawsuits and other proceedings alleging, among other things, violations of federal and state workplace and employment laws. Proceedings of this nature, if successful, could result in our payment of substantial damages. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by legal or governmental proceedings brought by or on behalf of employees or customers. In recent years, a number of restaurant companies, including Jamba Juice Company, have been subject to lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, alleging violations of federal and state law regarding workplace and employment matters, discrimination, tip policy and similar matters. A number of these lawsuits have resulted in the payment of substantial awards by the defendants. Similar lawsuits have been instituted against us in the past alleging violations of state and federal wage and hour laws and failure to pay for all hours worked. Although we are not currently a party to any class action lawsuits, we could incur substantial damages and expenses resulting from lawsuits, which would increase the cost of operating the business and decrease the cash available for our business. RISKS RELATED TO OWNERSHIP OF COMMON STOCK We currently fail to meet one of NASDAQ’s listing requirements and if our common stock is delisted it could negatively impact the price of our common stock, our ability to access the capital markets, and trigger a put right. Our common stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Global Market. A continual listing requirement of the NASDAQ is that the bid price of our common stock not close below the minimum of $1.00 per share for a 30-consecutive business day period. We are not currently in compliance with this requirement. However, NASDAQ has suspended enforcement of this requirement until April 20, 2009. If, absent a continued suspension of this rule by NASDAQ after April 20, 2009, we fail to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement after enforcement of this requirement is resumed on April 20, 2009, or if at any time we fail to satisfy any of the other requirements for continued listing, our common stock could be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market. The delisting of our common stock would significantly affect the ability of investors to trade our securities and would negatively affect the value and liquidity of our common stock. If delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market, our common stock will likely be quoted in the over-the-counter market in the so-called “pink sheets” or quoted in the OTC Bulletin Board. In addition, our common stock would be subject to the rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 relating to “penny stocks.” These rules require brokers who sell securities that are subject to the rules, and who sell to persons other than established customers and institutional accredited investors, to complete required documentation, make suitability inquiries of investors and provide investors with information concerning the risks of trading in the security. These requirements could make it more difficult to buy or sell our common stock in the open market. In addition, the delisting of our common stock could materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital on terms acceptable to us or at all. Delisting from the NASDAQ Global Market could also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by suppliers and employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. Furthermore, delisting from the NASDAQ Global Market would trigger a put right on behalf of our lenders requiring us to repurchase 2,000,000 shares of common stock held by them at a price of $1.50 per share. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly and could fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors due to various factors. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly because of various factors, including: • the impact of inclement weather; 28 Table of Contents • changes in consumer preferences and discretionary spending; • the timing of new franchise store openings and related revenue; • labor availability and wages of store management and team members; • changes in comparable store revenue and customer visits, including as a result of the introduction of new menu items; • variations in general economic conditions, such as, for example, those relating to changes in gasoline prices; • negative publicity about the ingredients we use or the occurrence of food-borne illnesses or other problems at our stores; • increases in infrastructure costs; • fluctuations in supply prices; and • fluctuations in the fair value of the derivative liability associated with outstanding warrants. Because of these factors, results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for any year. Average store revenue or comparable store revenue in any particular future period may decrease. In the future, operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. Any failure to meet expectations, particularly for (i) comparable store sales, (ii) earnings per share, or (iii) new store openings could cause the market price of the Company’s stock to drop significantly. Results of operations may be volatile as a result of the impact of fluctuations in the fair value of our outstanding warrants from quarter to quarter. Our outstanding warrants are classified as derivative liabilities and therefore, their fair values are recorded as derivative liabilities on our balance sheet. Changes in the fair values of the warrants will result in adjustments to the amount of the recorded derivative liabilities and the corresponding gain or loss will be recorded in our statement of operations. We are required to assess these fair values of derivative liabilities each quarter and as the value of the warrants is quite sensitive to changes in the market price of our stock, among other things, fluctuations in such value could be substantial and could cause our results to not meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors. These fluctuations will continue to impact our results of operations as described above for as long as the warrants are outstanding. The warrants will expire on June 28, 2009. Failure of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting could harm its business and financial results. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Internal control over financial reporting includes: (i) maintaining reasonably detailed records that accurately and fairly reflect our transactions; and (ii) providing reasonable assurance that we (a) record transactions as necessary to prepare the financial statements, (b) make receipts and expenditures in accordance with management authorizations, and (c) would timely prevent or detect any unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute assurance that we would prevent or detect a misstatement of our financial statements or fraud. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud. A significant financial reporting failure could cause an immediate loss of investor confidence in us and a sharp decline in the market price of our common stock. 29 Table of Contents Our anti-takeover provisions may delay or prevent a change of control of us, which may adversely affect the price of our common stock. Certain provisions in our corporate documents and Delaware law may delay or prevent a change of control of us, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. For example, we have adopted a stockholder rights plan, commonly known as a “poison pill,” which would make it difficult for someone to acquire the Company without the approval of the Board of Directors. Also, the Company’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws include other anti-takeover provisions such as: • Limitations on the ability of stockholders to amend its charter documents, including stockholder supermajority voting requirements; • The inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call a special meeting absent the request of the holders of a majority of the outstanding common stock; • Advance notice requirements for nomination for election to the board of directors and for stockholder proposals; and • The authority of its board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, “blank check” preferred stock. The Company is also afforded the protections of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which prevents it from engaging in a business combination with a person who acquires at least 15% of its common stock for a period of three years from the date such person acquired such common stock, unless board of directors or stockholder approval is obtained. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 