Item 1A. Risk FactorsIn addition to the other information provided in this Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the risks described in this section. The risks described below are not the only risks that could adversely affect our business; other risks currently deemed immaterial or additional risks not currently known to us could also adversely affect us. These and other factors could have a material adverse effect on the value of your investment in our shares, meaning that you could lose all or part of your investment.Note that this section includes forward-looking statements and future expectations as of the date of this Form 10-K. This discussion of Risk Factors should be read in conjunction with “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in Part II of this Form 10-K.Achieving our growth objectives may prove unsuccessful.We seek to achieve our growth objectives by enhancing our offerings to meet the needs of our customers through organic development, including by delivering integrated workflow platforms, cross-selling our products across our existing customer base and acquiring new customers, entering into strategic partnerships, and acquisitions. If we are unable to successfully execute on our strategies to achieve our growth objectives, our growth rates could be adversely affected. An additional factor that may adversely affect our growth rates is continued global economic uncertainty. Our non-subscription business in particular may be adversely affected by decisions on the part of our customers to defer spending in uncertain economic environments.If we are unable to consistently renew and enter into new subscriptions for our offerings, our results could weaken.The majority of our revenue is based on subscriptions to our offerings. In 2013, we derived approximately 76 percent of our revenues from subscriptions, which revenue we recognize ratably over the subscription terms. Our operating results depend on our ability to achieve and sustain high renewal rates on our existing subscription base and to enter into new subscription arrangements at acceptable prices and other commercially acceptable terms. Failure of one or more of these subscription objectives could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results.The loss of, or the inability to attract and retain, key personnel could impair our future success.Our future success depends to a large extent on the continued service of our employees, including our experts in research and analysis and other areas, as well as colleagues in sales, marketing, product development, critical operational roles, and management, including our executive officers. We must maintain our ability to attract, motivate, and retain highly qualified colleagues in order to support our customers and achieve business results. The loss of the services of key personnel and our inability to recruit effective replacements or to otherwise attract, motivate, or retain highly qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results.We could experience system failures or capacity constraints that could negatively impact our business.Our ability to provide reliable service largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex systems, relying on people, processes, and technology to function effectively. Some elements of these systems have been outsourced to third-party providers. Some of our systems have been consolidated for the purpose of enhancing scalability and efficiency, which increases our dependency on a smaller number of systems. Any significant interruption to, failure of, or security breaches affecting, our systems could result in significant expense to repair, replace or remediate systems, equipment or facilities, a loss of customers, and harm to our business and reputation. Interruption, system failures or security breaches could result from a wide variety of causes, including the possibility of failures at third-party data centers, disruptions to the Internet, malicious attacks or cyber incidents such as unauthorized access, loss or destruction of data (including confidential and/or personal customer information), account takeovers, computer viruses or other malicious code, and the loss or failure of systems over which we have no control. The failure of our systems, or the loss of data could result in legal claims or proceedings, disruption to our operations, damage to our reputation and remediation costs, which could individually or in the aggregate adversely affect our business and our insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses, failures, or breaches.Fraudulent or unpermitted data access and other security or privacy breaches may negatively impact our business and harm our reputation.Security breaches in our facilities, computer networks, and databases may cause harm to our business and reputation and result in a loss of customers. Our systems may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers and 13Table of Contentssimilar disruptive problems. Third-party contractors also may experience security breaches involving the storage and transmission of proprietary information. If users gain improper access to our databases, they may be able to steal, publish, delete or modify information included in our products or confidential or sensitive customer information that is stored or transmitted on our networks. Any misappropriation and/or misuse of our information could result in us, among other things, being in breach of certain data protection and related legislation, including regulations relating to the privacy of personal or payment card information.A security or privacy breach may affect us in the following ways:•deterring customers from using our solutions;•deterring data suppliers from supplying data to us;•harming our reputation;•exposing us to liability;•increasing expenses to correct problems caused by the breach;•affecting our ability to meet customers’ expectations; or•causing inquiry from governmental authorities.Incidents in which customer data has been fraudulently or improperly acquired or viewed, or any other security or privacy breaches, may occur and could go undetected. We have experienced cybersecurity attacks, as have many of our customers and suppliers. While prior cybersecurity attacks have not had a material adverse effect on our financial results, we have taken and are taking reasonable steps to prevent future events, including implementation of system security measures, information back-up and disaster recovery processes. However, these steps may not be effective and there can be no assurance that any such steps can be effective against all possible risks.If we are unable to successfully identify acquisitions or we experience integration, financing, or other risks resulting from our acquisitions, our financial results may be adversely affected.As we continue pursuing selective acquisitions to support our business and growth strategy, we seek to be a disciplined acquirer, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable candidates for successful acquisition at acceptable prices. In addition, our ability to achieve the expected returns and synergies from our past and future acquisitions and alliances depends in part upon our ability to effectively integrate the offerings, technology, sales, administrative functions, and personnel of these businesses into our business. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in integrating acquired businesses or that our acquired businesses will perform at the levels we anticipate. In addition, our past and future acquisitions may subject us to unanticipated risks or liabilities or disrupt our operations.Significant acquisitions may be financed by increasing our indebtedness. Our outstanding indebtedness could have consequences to our future operations, including: •making it more difficult for us to satisfy our payment and other ongoing business obligations, which may result in defaults; •events of default if we fail to comply with the financial and other covenants contained in the agreements governing our credit facility, which could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable or require us to negotiate an amendment to financial or other covenants that could cause us to incur additional fees and expenses;•subjecting us to the risk of increased sensitivity to interest rate increases in our outstanding indebtedness, which has a variable rate of interest and could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly;•reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes, and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes; •limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, the industries in which we operate, and the overall economy; •placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to any of our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged; and •increasing our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions. We depend on content obtained externally to support certain of our offerings, and the inability to continue to obtain access could prove harmful to our business.We obtain data from a wide variety of external sources that we transform into critical information and insight and use to create integrated solutions for our customers. Certain of our offerings include content that is either purchased or licensed from third parties. In particular, our industry standards offerings that are part of our Product Design workflow rely on information 14Table of Contentslicensed from SDOs. Offerings that rely upon SDO information accounted for less than 20 percent of our total revenue in 2013. We believe that the content licensed from many of these third parties, including the SDOs, cannot be obtained from alternate sources on favorable terms, if at all. Our license agreements with these third parties are generally nonexclusive and many are terminable on less than one year's notice. In addition, many of these third parties, including the SDOs, compete with one another and with us. If we lose access to a significant number of data sources and cannot replace the data through alternative sources or we are unable to obtain information licensed to us at cost-effective prices, specific customer solutions may be impacted and it could adversely affect the quality of our offerings and our business, financial condition, and operating results.Our strategic investments and cost reduction initiatives may not result in anticipated savings or more efficient operations. Over the past several years, including in 2013, we implemented significant strategic initiatives to reduce our cost structure, standardize our operations, and improve our ability to grow. We are deploying new processes and many of our colleagues across the business are changing the way they perform certain roles to capture efficiencies. We must also continue to invest in enhancing our existing products, including the development of new platforms to deliver our products, to meet the needs of our customers and differentiate our offerings from those of our competitors. There is risk that we may not realize the full potential benefit of our investments.We may not be able to protect intellectual property rights.We rely on copyright laws and nondisclosure, license, and confidentiality arrangements to protect our proprietary rights as well as the intellectual property rights of third parties whose content we license. However, we cannot assure you that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights, and the rights of those from whom we license intellectual property, are adequate to prevent unauthorized use, misappropriation, or theft of our intellectual property. We may also not be able to detect unauthorized uses or take timely and effective steps to remedy unauthorized conduct. In particular, a portion of our revenues are derived from jurisdictions where adequately protecting intellectual property rights may prove more challenging or impossible. To prevent or respond to unauthorized uses of our intellectual property, we might be required to engage in costly and time-consuming litigation and we may not ultimately prevail.We may be exposed to litigation related to content we make available to customers and we may face legal liability or damage to our reputation if our customers are not satisfied with our offerings or if our offerings are misused.Our business relies on licensing and delivering intellectual property to our customers and obtaining intellectual property from our suppliers. Accordingly, we may face potential liability for, among other things, breach of contract, negligence, and copyright and trademark infringement. Even litigation or infringement claims that lack merit may expose us to material expense or reputational damage. Damage to our reputation for any reason could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers, employees, and information suppliers. In addition, if the information in our offerings is incorrect for any reason, or if it is misused or used inappropriately, we could be subject to reputational damage or litigation that could exceed the value of any insurance coverage and adversely affect our business.We rely on independent contractors and third parties whose actions could have a material adverse effect on our business.We use independent contractors to help us obtain certain information, particularly for offerings that support our Energy products and several of our country risk offerings. In addition, we rely on third-party dealers to sell our offerings in locations where we do not maintain a sales office or sales teams. We are limited in our ability to monitor and direct the activities of our independent contractors, but if any actions or business practices of these individuals or entities violate our policies or procedures or are otherwise deemed inappropriate or illegal, we could be subject to litigation, regulatory sanctions, or reputational damage, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.As part of our strategic business model, we outsource certain operations and engage independent contractors to perform work in various locations around the world. For example, we outsource certain data hosting functions, as well as certain functions involving our data transformation process, to business partners who we believe offer us deep expertise in these areas, as well as scalability and cost effective services. By entering into these independent contractor arrangements and relying on them for critical business functions, we face risks that one or more independent contractors may unexpectedly cease operations, that they may perform work that deviates from our standards, that events in a given region may disrupt the independent contractor's operations, or that we may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property. If these or other unforeseen risks were to occur, they could adversely affect our business.We operate in competitive markets, which may adversely affect our market share and financial results. 15Table of ContentsWhile we do not believe that we have a direct competitor across all of our workflows and industry solutions, we face competition in specific industries and with respect to specific offerings. We may also face competition from organizations and businesses that have not traditionally competed with us but that could adapt their products and services or utilize significant financial and information-gathering resources, recognized brands, or technological expertise to begin competing with us. We believe that competitors are continuously enhancing their products and services, developing new products and services, and investing in technology to better serve the needs of their existing customers and to attract new customers. Increased competition could require us to make additional capital investments. Some of our competitors may also choose to sell products competitive with ours at lower prices, which may require us to reduce the prices of our offerings. An increase in our capital investments or price reductions by our competitors could negatively impact our margins and results of operations.Some of the critical information we use in our offerings is publicly available in raw form at little or no cost.The Internet, widespread availability of sophisticated search engines, and pervasive wireless data delivery have simplified the process of locating, gathering, and disseminating data, potentially diminishing the perceived value of our offerings. While we believe our offerings are distinguished by such factors as currency, accuracy and completeness and our analysis and other added value, if users choose to obtain the information they need from public or other sources, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected.Our brand and reputation are key assets and competitive advantages of our company and our business may be affected by how we are perceived in the marketplace.Our ability to attract and retain customers is affected by external perceptions of our brand and reputation. Reputational damage from negative perceptions or publicity could damage our reputation with customers, prospects, and the public generally. Although we monitor developments for areas of potential risk to our reputation and brand, negative perceptions or publicity could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.Changes in the legislative, regulatory, and commercial environments in which we operate may adversely impact our ability to collect, compile, use, and publish data and may impact our financial results. Certain types of information we collect, compile, use, and publish, including offerings in our IHS Automotive and CARFAX businesses, are subject to regulation by governmental authorities in jurisdictions in which we operate. In addition, there is increasing concern among certain privacy advocates and government regulators regarding marketing and privacy matters, particularly as they relate to individual privacy interests. These concerns may result in new or amended laws and regulations. Future laws and regulations with respect to the collection, compilation, use, and publication of information and consumer privacy could result in limitations on our operations, increased compliance or litigation expense, adverse publicity, or loss of revenue, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. It is also possible that we could be prohibited from collecting or disseminating certain types of data, which could affect our ability to meet our customers’ needs.Our international operations are subject to exchange rate fluctuations and other risks relating to world-wide operations.We operate in many countries around the world and a significant part of our revenue comes from international sales. In 2013, we generated approximately 45 percent of our revenues from sales outside the United States. We earn revenues, pay expenses, own assets, and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the U.S. dollar, including the British Pound, the Canadian Dollar, and the Euro. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenues, income, expenses, and the value of assets and liabilities into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. We may use derivative financial instruments to reduce our net exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Nevertheless, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies can materially affect our net operating revenues, operating income, and the value of balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies.Operating in many jurisdictions around the world, we may be affected by changes in trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; social, political, labor, or economic conditions in a specific country or region; and difficulties in staffing and managing local operations. We must also manage the uncertainties of obtaining data and creating solutions that are relevant to particular geographic markets; differing levels of intellectual property protection in various jurisdictions; and restrictions or limitations on the repatriation of funds. In addition, as we operate our business around the world, we must manage the potential conflicts between locally accepted business practices in any given jurisdiction and our obligations to comply with laws and regulations, 16Table of Contentsincluding anti-corruption regulations applicable to us, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act. We have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program which includes, among other things, employee training and the creation of appropriate policies defining employee behavior that mandate adherence to laws. While we implement policies and procedures intended to promote and facilitate compliance with all applicable laws, our employees, contractors, and agents, as well as those independent companies to which we outsource certain business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. Any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation.Our inability to manage some or all of these risks of operating a global business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results.Our business performance might not be sufficient for us to meet the full-year financial guidance that we provide publicly.We provide full-year financial guidance to the public based upon our assumptions regarding our expected financial performance. For example, we provide assumptions regarding our ability to grow revenue and to achieve our profitability targets. While we believe that our annual financial guidance provides investors and analysts with insight to our view of the company's future performance, such financial guidance is based on assumptions that may not always prove to be accurate and may vary from actual results. If we fail to meet the full-year financial guidance that we provide, or if we find it necessary to revise such guidance during the year, the market value of our common stock could be adversely affected.The price of our common stock may be volatile and may be affected by market conditions beyond our control.Our share price is likely to fluctuate in the future because of the volatility of the stock market in general and a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Market fluctuations could result in volatility in the price of shares of our common stock, one possible outcome of which could be a decline in the value of your investment. In addition, if our operating results fail to meet the expectations of stock analysts or investors, or if we are perceived by the market to suffer material business or reputational damage, we may experience a significant decline in the trading price of our common stock.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.