risk factors and cautionary language discussed in this document outline examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations described in the forward-looking statements, including among other things: • our business strategy and financial performance; • our revenue and customer volatility based upon weather and general economic conditions; • fluctuations in various food and supply costs; and • competition and other risks related to the food services business. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this document. All forward-looking statements included herein are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Except to the extent required by applicable laws and regulations, we undertake no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. You should be aware that the occurrence of the events described in the “Risk Factors” portion of this annual report, the documents incorporated herein and our other SEC filings could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition or operating results. 3 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Background of Jamba, Inc. Jamba, Inc. wholly-owns Jamba Juice Company, a leading restaurant retailer of better-for-you beverage and food offerings. Jamba Juice Company owns and franchises Jamba Juice stores and otherwise seeks to expand the Jamba brand through the retail consumer packaged goods market and in non-traditional venues where a Jamba Juice store or kiosk would not be feasible. Jamba, Inc. was incorporated in Delaware on January 6, 2005 as a blank check company formed to serve as a vehicle for the acquisition of a then unidentified operating business. On July 6, 2005, Jamba, Inc. consummated its initial public offering. On March 10, 2006, Jamba, Inc. entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger with Jamba Juice Company, which first began operations in 1990. The merger between Jamba, Inc. and Jamba Juice Company (the “Merger”) was completed on November 29, 2006. Unless the context otherwise requires, Jamba, Inc., the registrant, together with Jamba Juice Company, are referred to in this Form 10-K annual report (“Form 10-K”) as the “Company”, “Jamba”, “we”, “us” and “our.” Information regarding the Company’s fiscal periods is included in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Narrative Description of Business Jamba Juice’s better-for-you beverage and food offerings include great tasting smoothies, juices and teas, hot oatmeal made with organic steel cut oats, probiotic fruit and yogurt blends, Whirl’ns frozen yogurt, wraps, salads, sandwiches, California Flatbreads, and a variety of baked goods and snacks. As of December 28, 2010, Jamba Juice had 743 locations consisting of 351 company-owned and operated stores (“Company Stores”) and 392 franchise stores (“Franchise Stores”), making it one of the largest smoothie retailers in the United States by store count. As of December 28, 2010, Jamba Juice also had nine license agreements in place covering a variety of consumer packaged goods. The BLEND Plan—Our Strategic Priorities The BLEND Plan continues to be the Company’s strategic plan to transform the Jamba brand from a made-to-order smoothie company to a healthy, active lifestyle brand. In fiscal 2010, we continued to achieve significant progress against the BLEND Plan strategies and in doing so we continue to evolve and develop the BLEND Plan. The key strategic priorities for our BLEND Plan in fiscal 2011 include: • Continue to build a customer first, operationally focused service culture; • Continue to expand our beverage and food menu offerings across all four day parts (breakfast, lunch, afternoon, and dinner); • Continue to accelerate the development of franchise and non-traditional stores; • Continue to build a consumer products growth platform; and • Continue to implement a disciplined expense management plan. These strategic priorities support the Company’s mission to continue to grow and develop Jamba as a premier healthy, active lifestyle brand, offering consumers compelling and differentiated products and experiences at Jamba Juice stores and other retail distribution channels. Key to our success is the Jamba culture, a unique set of core values and actions that manifest themselves in employees and franchisees executing at the highest levels while expressing their passion for the brand. 4 Table of Contents Continue to Build a Customer First, Operationally Focused Service Culture A major aspect of our BLEND Plan is to continue to improve the level and consistency of customer service at our stores. As we move our business model of predominantly Company Stores to one of predominantly Franchise Stores, we are devoting significant resources to ensure that all stores offer a superior customer experience. We believe a great customer experience will help to drive customer loyalty and satisfaction, thus increasing frequency of visits and market share. In 2010, we implemented a store excellence guide designed to improve operational execution and performance by setting comprehensive standards to achieve and maintain. We also began the transition from a system-wide mystery shop program to a customer survey program to better monitor the customer experience and validate excellence in our customer service standards across the system. For Company Store managers, we also recently instituted a new bonus program that rewards customer service goal achievements. We have also strengthened our customer service program “Jamba on Stage” for the entire system. We believe these changes have both positively impacted customer satisfaction during the year and better positioned the Company to ensure that both Company Stores and Franchise Stores are delivering the key drivers of customer satisfaction on a consistent basis. Our continued focus on technological and procedural enhancements, in areas such as labor management and scheduling, relieves our store managers from unnecessary administrative reporting and enables them to better focus on delivering exceptional customer service. We have also leveraged technology to better communicate with our stores and to augment and improve our training programs. We continued to strengthen our relationships with franchisees to better assist them with rollouts of new products and marketing campaigns, provide best practices, and obtain franchisee feedback. In anticipation of future growth, we recently embarked on a review of the store environment and customer experience to help ensure we are positioned properly over the coming years to reinforce the vibrant and fun atmosphere customers expect from Jamba Juice stores, while at the same time delivering improved returns on investment. We continue to focus on off-site sales that involve bringing Jamba Juice products to sell at an event such as a school, community or sporting events or for delivery to businesses or other organizations for meetings, parties and other special occasions. Our commitment to health and wellness in schools is evidenced in the growth of our school lunch program. With continued national concern over childhood obesity and nutrition, Jamba is well positioned to help schools provide nutritional and healthful beverage and food options to students. Another component of this effort is the enhancement of our fundraising opportunities for non-profit organizations. Continue to Expand our Beverage and Food Menu Offerings Across All Four Day Parts (breakfast, lunch, afternoon and dinner) Menu Overview We have traditionally provided a range of freshly blended beverages, baked goods and snacks in our stores. Our menu items are designed to strengthen the relationship with our customers by offering products that are relevant to individuals striving to pursue a healthy, active lifestyle. Product innovation is a high priority and our research and development team, composed of food scientists, quality assurance specialists and food industry experts, is continually developing and testing new and improved menu items that support the integrity of the Jamba brand and our commitment to offering great tasting products made from high quality ingredients. 5 Table of Contents In furtherance of this goal, we continuously seek to improve our products and develop new ones to help mitigate weather and seasonality, create points of differentiation, optimize day parts and operating efficiencies, and encourage habitual behavior. Examples of products we introduced in 2010 and early 2011 include: • A number of seasonally relevant, limited time offerings, including: • New Superfruit products utilizing Yumberry, or ‘yangmei.’ This Superfruit is blended into Super Yumberry Classic Smoothie, Berry Yumberry All Fruit Smoothie and Yumberry Topper Ideal Meal. • Jamba Probiotic Fruit and Yogurt Blends are healthy, refreshing yogurt drinks made with Jamba’s Probiotic Boost. This product is offered in three flavors—Vibrant Blueberry(TM), Strawberries Alive(TM) and Thrivin’ Mango(TM). The Probiotic smoothies are made with whole fruits and probiotics, and they are an excellent source of Vitamin C. Jamba Probiotic Fruit and Yogurt Blends rolled out in early 2011 for a limited time across the entire system. • Our hot beverage platform, all or portion of which are currently available in more than 384 Jamba Juice stores system-wide. Our current hot beverage offerings include four Hot Blends beverages prepared in a blender, including three Chai tea flavors and a Classic Hot Chocolate made with premium natural and organic ingredients, six varieties of Mighty Leaf ® organic tea pouches, and Jamba Juice’s first-ever hot coffee offerings, including made-to-order boosted Coffee Hot Blends and fresh, organic coffee brewed by the cup. • Whirl’ns Frozen Yogurt, a line of specialty frozen yogurt treats featuring signature flavors found only at Jamba Juice. This line is currently available in 22 select Northern California locations, with a regional rollout planned for the summer season. In 2010, we created the “iDistrict” (short for Innovation District), a group of 18 Company Stores used to test major process enhancements, promotions, and product initiatives in a representative cross-section of store types and markets. The iDistrict allows us to accelerate our receipt and response of store and customer feedback to new initiatives, allowing us to quickly make adjustments and improve the quality of products and processes we deliver to the system. We plan to grow our beverage and food capability further during fiscal 2011. In particular, we plan to expand our breakfast offerings in 2011 with menu items that complement our existing breakfast menu and utilize the Turbo Chef ovens already employed across the system. We also plan to launch our first ever fruit and vegetables smoothie platform. We strive to utilize organic ingredients in our menu offerings and other products when they meet our quality, cost, and supply assurance standards. Our menu currently includes six organic hot teas, hot oatmeal made with organic steel cut oats, and healthy blended breakfast smoothies topped with organic granola. In addition, we offer a range of organic, high-quality, packaged, good-for-you snacks. We also utilize organic sanitizers in many of our stores. The items in our “grab-and-go” food portfolio, which are continually being refined and optimized, are supplied to us by a single supplier using regional co-packers and are distributed to our system stores by multiple distributors. We continue to believe there is consumer demand for better-for-you on-the-go food items that is not being fulfilled by other quick service restaurants. Our menu options continue to meet our four mandatory core standards: 0 grams of trans fat, no high fructose corn syrup, no artificial preservatives, and no artificial flavors. Our goal is for Jamba Juice to be the leader in the specialty better-for-you beverage retailer segment. Product Innovation Our research and development team continually seeks to enhance the product offerings available to customers, and where possible, reduce product and labor costs. Our research and development process includes 6 Table of Contents both the development of new products and the optimization of existing menu items to ensure only the most appealing products are offered to customers. We are passionate about creating differentiated, healthy, active lifestyle products that meet an even greater breadth and depth of customer needs. While there is no certainty that product development efforts will lead to the introduction and success of new product offerings or a potential increase in operating margins, we will continue to use these resources to try to develop unique concepts that appeal to customers at any time of day and in any weather or season. Continue to accelerate the Development of Franchise and Non-Traditional Stores Jamba Juice Stores A primary goal of the Company is to grow our brand by establishing more points of distribution to make it easier for customers to experience all that Jamba has to offer. We believe we have significant market expansion opportunities both nationally and internationally. Our market planning has shown that there is potential for at least 2,700 total Jamba Juice “traditional” and “non-traditional” stores in the United States, all of which we believe can be profitable and would meet our new store opening criteria. We have grown our concept and brand through Company Store and Franchise Store locations. As of December 28, 2010, there were 743 Jamba Juice locations consisting of 351 Company Stores and 392 Franchise Stores operating in 23 states and the Bahamas. Of the 743 locations, 391 stores are located in California, of which 293 are Company Stores and 98 are Franchise Stores. We lease the real estate for all of our Company Stores. We generally characterize our stores as either “traditional” or “non-traditional” locations. Traditional locations are characterized as a business premise that exists primarily as a Jamba Juice store. Traditional stores average approximately 1,400 square feet in size. These stores are located either in major urban centers or in suburban strip mall centers. As of December 28, 2010, there were 594 traditional Jamba Juice store locations. Non-traditional locations are characterized as a Jamba Juice store located within another primary business in conjunction with other businesses or at institutional settings such as colleges and universities, shopping malls, supermarkets and airports. A “captive” audience is a common characteristic of non-traditional locations. We believe one benefit of the development of non-traditional stores is to increase awareness of the Jamba Juice brand to complement the traditional stores in the area. As of December 28, 2010, there were 149 non-traditional Jamba Juice store locations. We continue to innovate in the design of traditional and non-traditional stores as well. Our goal is to vary the size and format of our stores to allow us to locate them in or near a variety of settings. As a result, the typical costs to construct a Jamba Juice non-traditional stores ranges from $185,000 to $408,000 and the typical costs to construct a traditional Jamba Juice store ranges from $264,000 to $462,000. We believe a variety of formats will provide a greater degree of customer access and convenience to our stores that will help attract franchisees and help provide them a higher return on investment on their capital expenditures. Express Platform To further expand our brand, in 2010 we launched an innovative new Express platform utilizing compact technology to make select smoothie flavors in “stations” using pre-packaged ingredients. The Express platform targets venues with high volume and needing high-speed service where a full-sized Jamba Juice store or kiosk would not be feasible. Such venues include schools, grocery stores, stadiums, theaters, and select airport locations. Included in the Franchise Store count in 2010 were five Express platform franchise locations. The Company generates revenue from the Express platform through a markup on the smoothie ingredients and through franchise fees. 7 Table of Contents International Franchising Our brand and products have international appeal, and we have attracted interest from business partners overseas. In 2005, we launched our first international store in the Bahamas. In 2010 we signed an agreement with SPC Group to develop Jamba Juice stores in South Korea. SPC Group currently operates over 4,500 stores and is actively developing franchises and its bakery business through affiliates such as Paris Croissant, BR Korea (Baskin Robbins, Dunkin Donuts), Shany, and Samlip General Foods. Our first Jamba Juice store opened in South Korea at Incheon International Airport in January 2011, and we expect SPC Group to open up to 200 stores in South Korea over the next decade. We work closely with SPC Group to develop and implement the Jamba Juice system, recognizing commercial, cultural and dietary diversity. We continue to engage in discussions with additional potential partners regarding the expansion of Jamba Juice stores into various international markets. The success of further international expansion will depend on, among other things, local acceptance of the Jamba Juice concept and menu offerings and our ability to attract qualified franchisees. Our agreements take the form of development and franchise agreements under which we typically receive an initial territory fee, store opening fees, and ongoing royalty revenues based on a percentage of sales. Franchising—Growth Strategy The focus of our growth strategy is to continue to expand the development of traditional and non-traditional Franchise Stores and the Express platform franchise locations. We believe this franchise strategy will better position us for growth in market share, reduce capital outlays, provide better overall margins, allow us to open more stores at a faster pace, increase our brand presence to support other Company initiatives such as consumer products licensing program, and increase customer frequency. In 2010, through the sale of 105 Company Stores to franchisees and the development of 30 new Franchise Stores, we increased franchise ownership within the Jamba Juice system from approximately 35% to approximately 53%. With the anticipated completion of our refranchising program, and predominately new growth through Franchise Store development, we expect the percentage of Franchise Stores at the end of 2011 to be approximately 60%. For fiscal 2010, Franchisees opened thirty new Franchise Stores, closed four Franchise Stores (two through natural lease expiration and two through early termination), and acquired 105 Company Stores which are now operated as Franchise Stores in refranchising transactions. We continuously monitor Franchise Store operations, principally through our Regional Franchise Leaders. Company representatives make both scheduled and unannounced inspections of Franchise Stores to ensure that only approved products are in use and that our prescribed operations practices and procedures are being followed. We have the right to terminate a franchise agreement if a franchisee does not operate and maintain a Franchise Store in accordance with our requirements. We also monitor the financial health of our franchisees through business and financial reviews. We maintain a Franchise Advisory Council (“FAC”). The FAC formalizes a channel of communication through a representative group of franchisees to provide advice, counsel and input to us on important issues impacting the business. 8 Table of Contents Franchising—Our Franchising Program Through our franchising program, we offer franchisees choices in store format and number of stores they wish to operate including (i) traditional store venues such as single store franchises, (ii) nontraditional store venues such as mall, university, supermarket or airport locations, (iii) Express platform locations, and (iv) exclusive multi-unit license agreements in which the franchisee develops and operates a specified number of stores within a specified period of time within a specified geographic area, which we call area development agreements (as described in Franchising—Area Development Agreements below). Our current traditional store franchise agreement provides for an initial 10-year term. The agreement is renewable for two consecutive 10-year terms, subject to various conditions and state law. The royalty rate in the current franchise agreement for domestic locations is generally 5.5-6% of revenue, with franchisees required to contribute up to an additional 4% of revenue to a company-administered advertising fund. At the present time, in general, we are charging 2% of revenue as the marketing contribution for our traditional store franchisees. Traditional store franchisees are also expected to spend 1.5% of sales on local marketing efforts. There is typically up to a one-mile geographic radius restriction for traditional stores in non-downtown areas. The royalty rates and marketing contributions for non-traditional stores vary depending upon type (airport, college or university or supermarket). Franchisees typically pay an initial fee of up to $25,000 for traditional store locations and an initial fee ranging from zero-$15,000 for non-traditional store locations. We generally do not provide any form of financing to our franchisees. Express platform franchise locations pay an initial fee of $5,000, have an initial term of 5-years, with successive one-year renewals, and instead of royalties pay a mark-up on ingredient purchases. Franchising—Area Development Agreements As of December 28, 2010, we had eleven area developers who have the right to develop additional Franchise Stores pursuant to development agreements. The exclusive territories covered by these agreements include selected markets in the states of Colorado, Florida, Hawaii, Indiana, Louisiana, Massachusetts, Nevada, New Jersey, Oregon, Utah and Washington. As of December 28, 2010, ten of the eleven developers had contractual commitments to open an aggregate of 43 new Franchise Stores in their respective territories over the next several years. Seven of the eleven development agreements were entered into in connection with refranchising transactions (see below) where a purchaser of Company Stores also agrees to develop new Franchise Stores. Area developers typically enter into a separate franchise agreement for each store opened. Under typical development agreements, the area developer generally pays one-half of a $20,000-$25,000 initial fee, or $10,000-$12,500, for each store required to be developed upon execution of the multi-unit development agreement as a development fee. Area developers are obligated to finance their own build-out of each store location according to our specifications. We also continue to strengthen our relationships with beverage and food concessionaires operating at non-traditional venues such as universities, airports, and other retail and entertainment venues to help maximize our non-traditional franchise development. Franchising—Our Refranchising Initiative In May 2009 we announced our refranchising initiative under which we stated our intent to sell existing Company Stores to new or existing franchisees who want to operate multiple store locations. Our refranchising 9 Table of Contents initiative has helped us to accelerate growth, achieve certain operational efficiencies, and position franchisees and aspiring area developers with local or regional expertise to succeed by providing a core of established stores within their exclusive development area. Under the refranchising initiative, we initially planned to complete the refranchising of up to 150 Company Stores to new or existing franchisees. During fiscal 2010, we completed the sale of 105 Company Stores in fifteen separate refranchising transactions, bringing the refranchising program total to 132 Company Stores sold. We expect to conclude our refranchising program with the sale of 41 Company Stores in the Chicago and Minneapolis markets in early 2011. In many refranchising transactions, we entered into development agreements committing buyers to build additional Franchise Stores in the regions their purchased stores occupy. In addition, as part of these refranchising transactions, buyers of mature Company Stores are obligated to refresh and refurbish these stores. Franchising—Market Planning and Site Selection Process Our market planning and site selection process is integral to the successful execution of our growth strategy. We have processes for identifying, analyzing, and assigning undeveloped markets for either Company Store or Franchise Store development. Once a market is selected, we carefully screen trade areas for demand based on demographic, psychographic and Jamba Juice specific variables to assess the risk of developing a store or permitting a franchisee to do so. We review trade areas to ensure that they meet our guidelines for new store development and begin the site selection or approval process. Once a trade area is approved, we carefully screen prospective locations for visibility, traffic patterns, ease-of-use and co-tenancy for potential Company Store and Franchise Store locations. Our expansion strategy involves using this market planning and site selection process to leverage areas of demand within each market. We intend to use this approach to encourage the clustering of stores in specific geographic areas of demand, which we believe will drive brand awareness, improve operating and marketing efficiencies for Franchise Stores while leveraging the costs associated with regional supervision. Distribution efficiencies can also be realized through this strategy. In addition, we believe the ability to hire qualified team members is enhanced in markets where Jamba is a broadly recognized brand. In addition to our own efforts, we are approached by sophisticated concessionaires and contract feeders whose independent research has identified us as ideal for locations such as universities, sport venues, airports, and other non-traditional venues where they have exclusive rights from venue owners to develop. When it fits our expansion strategies, these opportunities are incorporated into our own plans. Continue to Build a Consumer Products Growth Platform Extending the Jamba brand into the retail consumer packaged goods market continues to provide significant business opportunities. At the close of 2010, the Company had nine license agreements in place. These nine agreements include one with Nestlé USA to introduce a line of all-natural, fruit-based energy drinks. This line of products was launched in February 2011 in the northeastern United States. In addition to energy beverages, the Company also signed agreements with One Natural Experience (O.N.E.) to develop a line of fruit-infused coconut water beverages. This new line of Jamba-branded coconut water beverages will be brought to market via the O.N.E. distribution system, which includes distribution through the Pepsi Beverage Company. The Company also signed agreements with Zola for a line of functional daily Brazilian super fruit shots, with Johnvince Foods for all-naturally boosted trail mixes, and with Sundia Corporation for functionally boosted fruit cups. We continue to have discussions with potential licensees regarding new and complimentary product categories that we believe are a good fit with the Jamba brand. Our goal is to extend our product offerings outside of our Jamba Juice stores to not only generate revenue, but also to expand the brand accessibility and product usage occasions available to consumers. All of our agreements to date have been structured as license agreements, whereby we receive ongoing royalties based on a percentage of product sales. In the future, to support and optimize our brand extension, we may structure these relationships in other ways such as joint venture agreements, co-packing agreements, and sales and distribution agreements. 10 Table of Contents In 2010, we entered into a non-binding memorandum of intent with Core-Mark Holdings Company, Inc. to establish a relationship to offer and deliver health-oriented Jamba branded beverage and food consumer products, including those produced by Jamba licensees, to Core-Mark serviced convenience retail locations. This relationship represents one way we can assist our licensees in commercializing the licensed Jamba-branded products at retail. Continue to Implement a Disciplined Expense Management Plan This strategic priority affects all aspects of our system in our efforts to continue to improve store-level profitability and returns for Company Store and Franchise Stores. Strong store-level economics is critical to the Company’s success and therefore management is diligently focused on initiatives to improve these metrics. We also monitor our general and administrative expenses so that we may better leverage our existing infrastructure in support of our growth strategy. Store Operations Company Store Management We believe operational excellence at both the Company Store level and the Franchise Store level is vital to the Company’s success. Our Company Store field and store operations team plays a critical role in maximizing the performance of our stores across the system. We recruit and retain leaders with broad experience in management and our industry. We support our Company Store operations with a combination of Area Directors of Operations and District Managers. Our typical Company Store operations team consists of a combination of a General Manager at each store, two to four Shift Managers and approximately 10 to 20 front line team members depending on the time of year. We continually evaluate opportunities to optimize our labor planning algorithms further to achieve optimal staffing levels throughout the day, which may help us reduce staffing costs at certain stores under certain circumstances. Maintaining our culture in Company Stores as well as Franchise Stores is essential as we continue to expand, and we believe that it is critical to developing our brand and ensuring our continued success. We believe team members are the key to our success and support the development of a culture that fosters personal interaction, mutual respect, trust, empowerment, enthusiasm and commitment. Training We conduct various training programs for franchisees, team members, support center staff and our leadership team. We are dedicated to providing a meaningful experience for all employees, with ample opportunity to develop leadership skills as they move up through the organization. Our training programs include formal programs such as the Manager-in-Training programs for new managers and informal one-on-one discussions held between General Managers, District Managers and Area Directors of Operations. All of our training programs reinforce the importance of strong customer service and sales skills. We also make training materials and best practice information available to our franchisees to help create, preserve, and support a singular culture of excellence within all of the stores that comprise our system. Recruiting and Retention We carefully screen potential employees to ensure that they hold many of our core values and fit into our culture. By maintaining this emphasis and encouraging responsibility and accountability at every level, we believe that we have created a sense of team member loyalty and an open and interactive work environment, resulting in a highly passionate workforce. Our employees are paid competitive wages and are offered opportunities for advancement. In addition to competitive wages, store managers are eligible for performance- 11 Table of Contents based bonuses. We also provide best practice information, qualifications and other information to our franchisees to assist them with hiring and retention and to preserve a singular culture within the stores that comprise our system. Advertising and Marketing Our marketing strategy focuses on promoting Jamba Juice as a healthy, active lifestyle brand for consumers who prefer not to sacrifice taste or quality. Marketing efforts are primarily concentrated on creating local buzz that will generate positive word-of-mouth, an approach we call “owning the trade area” around our stores. We also use social media outlets to encourage greater frequency of visits from existing customers and to drive trial and awareness among potential new customers. Currently we have over 850,000 fans who “Like” us on Facebook and over 6,000 followers on Twitter. Consistent with the origins of our brand, we also engage local non-profits and community organizations to drive brand awareness, trial and usage frequency among their members. We also look to our Jamba-branded consumer products licensees to generate brand awareness through their advertising and promotion efforts. In general, each traditional store, whether a Company Store or Franchise Store, presently contributes 2% of sales to a national marketing fund and is also expected to spend an additional 1.5% of sales on local marketing efforts. In addition, the Company plans to develop regional advertising initiatives to assist certain regions spend a portion of their local marketing spending obligations. We engage in marketing campaigns to enhance national brand awareness. We use print, radio, email, online and other advertising media in furtherance of this goal. We also benefit from national media attention relating to some of our programs. Historically, we have not engaged in any mass media marketing programs; nevertheless, we have been featured in stories appearing in nationally syndicated papers, including The Wall Street Journal and a host of local newspapers and magazines. We have also received product placement in television shows and feature films. Our participation in local fundraising events also helps capture a significant amount of coverage from local television stations. Product Supply We are committed to providing only the finest smoothies, juices and other food products. Smoothie and juice products depend heavily upon supplies of fresh and individually quick frozen (“IQF”) fruit. The quality of each smoothie depends to a large degree on the quality of the basic fruit ingredients from which it is made. It is therefore essential that the supply of fruit is of the highest quality and is consistent throughout the year. To achieve these goals we purchase our projected requirements for the coming year of a given type of fruit from suppliers at the height of the season for that particular fruit. The supply and price of fresh and IQF fruit are dependent upon the supply and demand at the time of purchase and are subject to significant volatility. Supply and price can be affected by multiple factors in the producing regions, including weather, natural disasters and regional political and economic conditions. In addition, as we continue to grow, we will likely become more dependent upon global fruit supplies than we have in the past, which could allow natural disasters and global political and economic conditions to have a greater effect on the supply and price of our fruit ingredients and our profitability. Southwest Traders, Inc. is a distributor of proprietary products to our Company Stores and Franchise Stores. Southwest Traders distributed ingredients that made up approximately 75% of cost of goods for Jamba Juice Company during fiscal 2010. Southwest Traders does not manufacture or negotiate pricing agreements for products sold in our stores. They serve solely in a warehousing and distribution capacity. In 2010, the Company initiated a program whereby the Company’s purchasing organization for Company Stores and Franchise Stores would be funded by all Company Stores and Franchise Stores instead of solely out of the Company’s general and administrative expenses. This change became necessary as we started to move from a predominately Company Store model to a Franchise Store model in order to achieve the funding levels required 12 Table of Contents to procure, manage, and support suppliers with respect to products, equipment, and distribution services to support the system. The funding for this program is achieved from a mark-up of certain products purchased by Company Stores and Franchise Stores, which is subsequently rebated back to the Company by the supplier. We believe this program allows the Company to provide the best supply chain services to achieve the highest quality of products at the lowest prices and in compliance with the Company’s quality and safety standards. We also believe this program better aligns the interests of the Company Stores and the Franchise Stores from a cost of goods perspective. Competition The retail beverage and food industry is highly competitive and fragmented. Restaurants compete based on a number of factors, including quality, price-value relationships, customer service, name recognition, employee hiring and retention and location. We compete with a variety of purveyors of quick, convenient beverage and food products, including quick service restaurants/fast food establishments, coffee shops, donut shops and grocery stores. While competition in the beverage and food market is fragmented, competition is increasing, and a major competitor with substantially greater resources than the Company could enter the market at any time and compete directly against Jamba Juice stores. We compete most directly with regional smoothie stores, most of which are franchises of other smoothie brands. The rising popularity of convenient and healthy food items may result in increased competition from non-smoothie retailers as they increase their offerings of smoothies and other juice-related products, and as we increase our food offerings we will be placing ourselves into direct competition with other quick serve food concepts with well established businesses. In 2010, we believe competition from McDonald’s nationwide introduction and promotion of its new smoothie line negatively impacted Company Store sales in the third quarter when they were introduced. However, in the subsequent quarter we regained our number one market share smoothie category leader and we believe in the longer term that the McDonald’s launch will be beneficial by expanding consumer awareness of the smoothie category. In addition, we also face intense competition from both restaurants and other specialty retailers for suitable sites for new stores and qualified personnel to operate both new and existing stores. There can be no assurance that the Company or our franchisees will be able to continue to secure adequate sites at acceptable rent levels or that the Company or franchisees will be able to attract a sufficient number of qualified personnel to operate our stores. Government Regulation and Environmental Matters Government Regulation. We are subject to extensive and varied federal, state and local government regulation, including regulations relating to public health and safety and zoning codes. We operate each of our stores in accordance with standards and procedures designed to comply with applicable codes and regulations. However, if we could not obtain or retain food or other licenses, it would adversely affect our operations. Although we have not experienced, and do not anticipate, any significant difficulties, delays or failures in obtaining required licenses, permits or approvals, any such problem could delay or prevent the opening of, or adversely impact the viability of, a particular store or group of stores. California and other states and local jurisdictions have enacted laws, rules, regulations and ordinances which may apply to the operation of a Company Store, including those which (a) establish general standards, specifications and requirements for the construction, design and maintenance of the store premises; (b) regulate matters affecting the health, safety and welfare of our customers, such as general health and sanitation requirements for restaurants; employee practices concerning the storage, handling, cooking and preparation of food; special health, food service and licensing requirements; restrictions on smoking; exposure to tobacco smoke or other carcinogens or reproductive toxicants and saccharin; availability of and requirements for public 13 Table of Contents accommodations, including restrooms; (c) set standards pertaining to employee health and safety and mandatory health insurance; (d) set standards and requirements for fire safety and general emergency preparedness; (e) regulate the proper use, storage and disposal of waste, insecticides and other hazardous materials; (f) establish general requirements or restrictions on advertising containing false or misleading claims, or health and nutrient claims on menus or otherwise, such as “low calorie”, “fat free” or “organic”; (g) establish requirements concerning withholdings and employee reporting of taxes on tips and (h) regulate or ban the use of polystyrene cups. In order to develop and construct more stores, we or our franchisees need to comply with applicable zoning, land use and environmental regulations. Federal and state environmental regulations have not had a material effect on our operations to date, but expansion of our menu offerings or more stringent and varied requirements of local governmental bodies with respect to zoning, land use and environmental factors could delay or even prevent construction and increase development costs for new stores. We and our franchisees are also required to comply with the accessibility standards mandated by the U.S. Americans with Disabilities Act, which generally prohibits discrimination in accommodation or employment based on disability. We may, in the future, have to modify stores, for example, by adding access ramps or redesigning certain architectural fixtures, to provide service to or make reasonable accommodations for disabled persons. While these expenses could be material, our current expectation is that any such action will not require us to expend substantial funds. We are subject to the U.S. Fair Labor Standards Act, the U.S. Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 and various federal and state laws governing various matters including minimum wages, overtime and other working conditions. We pay a significant number of our hourly staff at rates consistent with but higher than the applicable federal or state minimum wage. Accordingly, increases in the minimum wage would increase our labor cost. We are also subject to various laws and regulations relating to our current and any future franchise operations. See “Risk Factors—Governmental regulation may adversely affect our ability to open new stores or otherwise adversely affect our existing and future operations and results.” We are also subject to various federal and state laws that regulate the offer and sale of franchises and aspects of the licensor-licensee relationships. Many state franchise laws impose restrictions on the franchise agreement, including the duration and scope of non-competition provisions, the ability of a franchisor to terminate or refuse to renew and the ability of a franchisor to designate sources of supply. The Federal Trade Commission, or the FTC, and some state laws also require that the franchisor furnish to prospective franchisees a franchise disclosure document that contains prescribed information and, in some instances, require the franchisor to register the franchise offering. Environmental Matters. We are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations concerning the use of polystyrene products, and several counties in which our stores are located have already banned the use of our polystyrene cups. As more state and local governments take actions to preserve the environment we may be subject to further bans on the use of polystyrene cups. A federal ban on the use of polystyrene cups would force us to eliminate the use of polystyrene products system wide. We are actively exploring economically viable alternatives to polystyrene cups, which can provide the same quality and integrity of our frozen smoothies to ensure customer satisfaction. During 2010, we continued to make progress on new eco-sustainability initiatives first launched in 2009. We focused on waste reduction, increasing the use of recyclable products and utilizing more organic ingredients. Our green initiatives include the introduction of more environmentally friendly packaging for our products, the launch of several optimization programs to reduce waste, participation in recycling programs, and participation in composting programs for of our food waste where it is feasible for us to do so. Among the packaging improvements made to date are the introduction of new cup carriers, oatmeal cups and lids, breakfast clear cups and lids, spoons and napkins that are made from recycled material. We have also reduced the amount of corrugated cardboard used for bulk shipping, reduced labeling requirements, and reduced freight, resulting in lower fuel emissions. 14 Table of Contents Trademarks and Domain Names The Company owns and/or has applied to register numerous trademarks and service marks in the United States and in other jurisdictions covering more than 50 additional countries throughout the world. Some of the Company’s trademarks, including Jamba Juice ® and the Jamba logo are of material importance to the Company. The duration of trademark registrations varies from country to country. However, trademarks are generally valid and may be renewed indefinitely as long as they are in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained. In addition, the Company has registered and maintains numerous Internet domain names, including “jamba.com” and “jambajuice.com.” Management Information Systems Each Company Store has computerized point-of-sale registers which collect transaction data used to generate pertinent information, including sales transactions and product mix. Additionally, the point-of-sale system is used to authorize, batch and transmit credit card data. All product prices are programmed into the point-of-sale register from the Company’s corporate office. Franchise Stores generally use the same point-of-sale registers as Company Stores, but may elect to use alternative systems provided certain information is provided to the Company. Franchisees set their own menu prices. Company Stores use the Company’s licensed labor scheduling software to record employee time clock information, schedule labor, and provide management reports. Company Stores and many Franchise Stores use the Company’s licensed food cost management software to improve inventory management and provide management reports. We believe the current point-of-sale register system is adequate to support our expansion needs. In 2011, the Company plans to deploy supply chain management software tools to improve product forecasting by better balancing the disparity between supply and demand through improved business processes and using algorithms and consumption analysis to better plan future needs. These tools will include integration technology that will allow the Company to communicate information electronically with supply chain partners. Seasonality Our business is highly subject to day-to-day volatility based on weather and varies by season. A significant portion of the Company’s revenue is realized during the second and third quarters of the fiscal year, which include the summer months. The fourth quarter of the fiscal year, which encompasses the winter months and the holiday season, has traditionally been our lowest revenue volume quarter. Although we have expanded the number of stores offering our hot oatmeal, “grab-and-go” food, and California Flatbreads, have also launched our Hot Blends beverage platform, and will soon launch a hot, savory breakfast platform to help offset the seasonal nature of our business, our business will likely continue to be subject to seasonal patterns for the foreseeable future, given that the largest portion of our sales continues to be from the sale of smoothies during the warmer parts of the year. Because of the seasonality of the business, results for an individual quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results which may be achieved for the full fiscal year. Executive Officers Our executive officers, their respective ages and positions as of March 14, 2011 and descriptions of their business experience are set forth below. There are no family relationships among any of the executive officers named below. James D. White, President and Chief Executive Officer, age 50 Mr. White has served as the Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer since December 2008. From 2005 to 2008, Mr. White was Senior Vice President of Consumer Brands for Safeway, Inc. with responsibility for brand strategy, innovation, manufacturing and commercial sales. From 2002 to 2005, Mr. White was Senior Vice President of Business Development, North America at the Gillette Company. 15 Table of Contents Karen L. Luey, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, age 50 Ms. Luey has served as the Company’s Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since August 2008, and Principal Accounting Officer since April 2007. Ms. Luey joined Jamba Juice Company as Vice President and Controller in April 2007. From 2005 to 2007, Ms. Luey was Vice President, Corporate Controller, and Principal Accounting Officer of LeapFrog Enterprises. Bruce Schroder, President, Store Operations, age 51 Mr. Schroder has served as President, Store Operations of Jamba Juice Company since April 2010. From 2008 to 2010, Mr. Schroder was chief operating officer of Adina for Life. From 2007 to 2008, Mr. Schroder served as chief operating officer of Aimco Capital. From 2003 to 2007, Mr. Schroder held various positions with Peet’s Coffee & Tea, lastly serving as Vice President and General Manager, Retail. Thibault de Chatellus, Senior Vice President, Global Franchise and Development, age 51 Mr. de Chatellus has served as Senior Vice President, Global Franchise and Development of Jamba Juice Company since August 2008. Mr. de Chatellus joined Jamba Juice Company as Senior Vice President, International in May 2007. From 2005 to 2007, Mr. de Chatellus was an independent consultant, focusing on business development strategies in international markets. Michael W. Fox, Senior Vice President and General Counsel, Secretary, age 52 Mr. Fox has served as the Company’s Senior Vice President and General Counsel since August 2008 and has been Corporate Secretary since November 2006. Mr. Fox joined Jamba Juice Company as Vice President, Legal Affairs in February 2005. Gregory A. Schwartz, Senior Vice President, Supply Chain, age 46 Mr. Schwartz has served as Senior Vice President, Supply Chain of Jamba Juice Company since September 2008. Mr. Schwartz joined Jamba Juice Company as Vice President, Supply Chain in August 2007. During 2007, prior to joining Jamba Juice Company, Mr. Schwartz was Vice President, Global Procurement of WalMart Stores, Inc. From 1999 to 2006, Mr. Schwartz held various positions with Safeway, Inc., lastly serving as its Vice President, Strategic Global Sourcing and Business Development (Blackhawk Network). Susan H. Shields, Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer, age 50 Susan H. Shields has served as Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer of Jamba Juice Company since November 2009. Ms. Shields joined Jamba Juice Company as Vice President of Consumer Products, Licensing, and Growth initiatives in January 2009. During 2008, Ms. Shields was Senior Vice President of Innovation and Product Development at Beautifull, Inc. From 2006 to 2007, Ms. Shields was Group Vice President of Innovation at Safeway, Inc. Employees As of December 28, 2010, we employed approximately 5,900 persons, approximately 170 of whom were at our corporate offices or part of our field and franchise support and operations. The remainder of the employees were Company Store management and hourly store personnel. The Company also hires a significant number of seasonal employees during its peak selling season during the spring and summer. Our employees are not covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We consider our employee relations to be good. We place a priority on staffing our stores and support center positions with skilled team members who embrace our culture and invest in training programs to ensure the quality of our store operations. 16 Table of Contents Available Information Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available on our website at http://ir.jambajuice.com, free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with, or furnish those reports to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The SEC also maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information that we file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. The public may also read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Investors may obtain information on the operation of the SEC Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Our Corporate Governance Principles and Practices, Board of Directors committee charters (including the charters of the Audit Committee, Compensation and Executive Development Committee and Nominating and Governance Committee) and our code of ethics entitled “Code of Business Conduct and Ethics” also are available at that same location on our website. Information on our website is not incorporated into this annual report. Stockholders may request free copies of these documents from: Jamba, Inc. c/o ICR, Inc. 441 Lexington Avenue, 4th Floor New York, NY (646) 277-1212 investors@jambajuice.com We included the certifications of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer of Jamba, Inc. relating to the quality of our public disclosure, as required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related rules, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2 hereto. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other documents we file with the SEC are descriptions of the risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We may not be successful in implementing our strategic priorities, which may have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results. In fiscal 2010 we continued to implement the strategic priorities under our BLEND Plan that we believed necessary to revitalize the Company for future growth and long-term stockholder value, including: • continuing to build a customer first operationally focused service culture; • continuing to expand our beverage and food menu offerings across all four day parts (breakfast, lunch, afternoon and dinner); • continuing to accelerate the development of franchise and non-traditional stores; • continuing to build a consumer products growth platform; and • continuing to implement a disciplined expense reduction plan. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to successfully implement these strategic priorities or whether these strategic priorities will be successful, and a failure of either could impede our growth and operating results. 17 Table of Contents We have a history of net losses and may incur losses in the future. We have incurred net losses in each of the last four fiscal years. We may continue to incur net losses in the future and we cannot assure you that we will achieve or sustain profitability. A worsening of economic conditions or a decrease in consumer spending may substantially decrease our revenues and may adversely impact our ability to implement our business strategy. Our success depends to a significant extent on discretionary consumer spending, which is influenced by general economic conditions and the availability of discretionary income. While there are signs that conditions may be improving, there is no certainty that this trend will continue or that credit and financial markets and confidence in economic conditions will not deteriorate again. Accordingly, we may experience continuing declines in revenue during economic turmoil or during periods of uncertainty. Any material decline in the amount of discretionary spending, leading cost-conscious consumers to be more selective in restaurants visited, could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, results of operations, business and financial condition. The challenges of competing with the many food services businesses may result in reductions in our revenue and operating margins. We compete with many well-established companies, food service and otherwise, on the basis of taste, quality and price of product offered, customer service, atmosphere, location and overall guest experience. Our success depends, in part, upon the popularity of our products and our ability to develop new menu items that appeal to consumers across all four day parts. Shifts in consumer preferences away from our products, our inability to develop new menu items that appeal to consumers across all day parts, or changes in our menu that eliminate items popular with some consumers could harm our business. We compete with other smoothie and juice bar retailers, specialty coffee retailers, yogurt and ice cream shops, bagel shops, fast-food restaurants, delicatessens, cafés, take-out food service companies, supermarkets and convenience stores. Our competitors change with each of the four day parts, ranging from coffee bars and bakery cafés to casual dining chains. Many of our competitors or potential competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do, which may allow them to react to changes in the market quicker than we can. In addition, aggressive pricing by our competitors or the entrance of new competitors into our markets, as evidenced by McDonald’s Corporation’s inclusion of fruit smoothies on their menu, could reduce our revenue and operating margins. We also compete with other employers in our markets for hourly workers and may become subject to higher labor costs as a result of such competition. We are subject to risks associated with climate change and climate change regulation. Laws and regulations regarding climate change, energy usage and emissions controls may impact the Company directly through higher cost of goods. The potential impacts of climate change and climate change regulations are highly uncertain at this time, and the Company cannot anticipate or predict the material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows as a result of climate change and climate change regulations. Our revenue is subject to volatility based on weather and varies by season. Seasonal factors cause our revenue to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Because the majority of our revenue results from the sale or smoothies, our revenue is typically lower during the winter months and the holiday season and during periods of inclement weather (because fewer people choose cold beverages) and higher during the spring, summer and fall months (for the opposite reason). Fluctuations in various food and supply costs, particularly fruit and dairy, could adversely affect our operating results. Supplies and prices of the various products that we use to prepare our offerings can be affected by a variety of factors, such as weather, seasonal fluctuations, demand, politics and economics in the producing countries. 18 Table of Contents These factors subject us to shortages or interruptions in product supplies, which could adversely affect our revenue and profits. In addition, the prices of fruit and dairy, which are the main products in our offerings, can be highly volatile. The fruit of the quality we seek tends to trade on a negotiated basis, depending on supply and demand at the time of the purchase. An increase in pricing of any fruit that we use in our products could have a significant adverse effect on our profitability. In addition, higher diesel and gasoline prices may affect our supply or transportation costs and may affect our revenue going forward. Although we attempt to help mitigate the risks of volatile commodity prices and allow greater predictability in pricing by entering into fixed price or to-be-fixed priced purchase commitments for a portion of our fruit and dairy requirements, we cannot assure you that these activities will be successful or that they will not result in our paying substantially more for our fruit supply than would have been required absent such activities. Declines in sales may also adversely affect our business to the extent we have long-term purchase commitments in excess of our needs. We are primarily dependent upon one supplier for a significant amount of our food distribution. We maintain food distribution contracts primarily with one supplier. This supplier, Southwest Traders, Inc., provided approximately 75% of our cost of goods for fiscal 2010, and 75% and 81% of cost of goods for each of our fiscal years 2009 and 2008, respectively, which potentially subjects us to a concentration of business risk. If this supplier had operational problems, our operations could be adversely affected. We may face difficulties entering into new or modified arrangements with existing or new suppliers or new service providers. If we expand our operations into new geographic areas through new Company Stores or Franchise Stores or introduce new products with special manufacture, storage or distribution requirements, we may have to seek new suppliers and service providers or enter into new arrangements with existing ones. We may also encounter difficulties or be unable to negotiate pricing or other terms as favorable as those we currently enjoy, which could harm our business and operating results. For example, the Company has faced challenges related to the high distribution costs for stores located outside of California in delivering our grab-and-go portfolio comprised of fresh, perishable products. The Company’s success depends on the value of the Jamba Juice and Jamba brands. The Jamba Juice brand practice is to inspire and simplify healthy living. We believe we must preserve and grow the value of the Jamba Juice brand in order to be successful in building our business and particularly in building a consumer products growth platform primarily under the Jamba brand. Brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions, and the Jamba Juice brand has been highly rated in several recent brand studies. We intend to reinforce and extend these perceptions for the Jamba brand to help support our licensing efforts. Our brand building initiatives involve increasing our product offerings, opening new Franchise Stores and entering into licensing arrangements to increase awareness of our brands and create and maintain brand loyalty. Our licensees are often authorized to use our logos and provide branded beverages, food and other products directly to customers. We provide training and support to, and monitor the operations of, these business partners, but the product quality and service they deliver may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control, including financial pressures. We believe customers expect the same quality of products and service from our licensees as they do from us. Any shortcoming of one of our business partners, particularly an issue affecting the quality of the service experience or the safety of beverages or food, may be attributed by customers to us, thus damaging our reputation and brand value and potentially affecting our results of operations. If our brand building initiatives are unsuccessful, or if business incidents occur which erode consumer perceptions of our brand, then the value of our products may diminish and we may not be able to implement our business strategy. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm the value of our brand and adversely affect our business. Our intellectual property is material to the conduct of our business. Our ability to implement our business plan successfully depends in part on our ability to build further brand recognition using our trademarks, service 19 Table of Contents marks, trade dress and other proprietary intellectual property, including our name and logos and the unique ambiance of our stores both domestically and overseas. We have secured the ownership and rights to our marks in the United States and have filed or obtained registrations for restaurant services in most other significant foreign jurisdictions. We undertake similar efforts to protect our brands in other relevant consumer product categories in relevant jurisdictions. If our efforts to protect our intellectual property are inadequate, or if any third party misappropriates or infringes on our intellectual property, the value of our store brand and our consumer products brands may be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. While we have not encountered claims from prior users of intellectual property relating to restaurant services in areas where we operate or intend to conduct material operations in the near future, there can be no assurances that we will not encounter such claims. If so, this could harm our image, brands or competitive position and cause us to incur significant penalties and costs. Our business could be adversely affected by increased labor or healthcare costs. Self-insurance plan claims could materially impact our results. Labor is a primary component in the cost of operating our business. We devote significant resources to recruiting and training our team members. A considerable number of the team members employed by us are paid at rates related to the federal minimum wage. In 2008, the federal minimum wage increased from $5.85 to $6.55 and it increased again in 2009 to $7.25. Additionally, many of our Company Store team members work in stores located in states where the minimum wage is greater than the federal minimum and receive compensation equal to the state’s minimum wage. The current California minimum wage is $8.00. Any further increases in the federal minimum wage or the enactment of additional state or local minimum wage increases where our employees may be located will increase labor costs. Additionally, competition for employees in various markets could result in higher required wage rates. Furthermore, the Company is self-insured for team member healthcare and dental benefits. The Company pays a substantial part of the healthcare benefits for team members at the general manager level and above and for those working at the Company’s corporate office. Liabilities associated with the risks that the Company retains are estimated in part, by considering historical claims experience, demographic factors, severity factors, and other actuarial assumptions. The estimated accruals for these liabilities are based on statistical analyses of historical industry data as well as the Company’s actual historical trends. If actual claims experience differs from the Company’s assumptions, historical trends, and estimates, changes in the Company’s insurance reserves could materially impact our results of operations. The recently enacted Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act as well as other healthcare reform legislation being considered by Congress and state legislatures may have an impact on our business. While we are currently evaluating the potential effects of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act on our business, the impact could be extensive and will most likely increase our employee healthcare-related costs. While the significant costs of the recent healthcare legislation enacted will occur after 2013 due to provisions of the legislation being phased in over time, changes to our healthcare costs structure could have a significant, negative impact on our business. We are subject to all of the risks associated with leasing space subject to long-term non-cancelable leases. We and our franchisees compete for real estate and our or their inability to secure appropriate real estate or lease terms could impact our respective abilities to grow. Our leases generally have initial terms of between five and 15 years, and generally can be extended only in five-year increments if at all. We generally cannot cancel these leases. If an existing or new store is not profitable, and we decide to close it, as we have done in the past and may do in the future, we may nonetheless be committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease including, among other things, paying the base rent for the balance of the lease term. Additionally, because we sublease the premises of Company Stores sold to franchisees in our refranchising program, we are still legally liable to the landlords under the prime leases, and we will need to assume obligations under the prime lease should a franchisee default on its sublease obligations. Current locations of our stores and franchised locations may become unattractive as demographic patterns change. In addition, as each of our leases expire, we may fail to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could require us to close stores in desirable locations. 20 Table of Contents Our business and results may be subject to disruption from work stoppages, terrorism or natural disasters. Our operations may be subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including work stoppages, acts of war, terrorism, pandemics, fire, earthquake, flooding or other natural disasters. In particular, our corporate offices and support center is located in Northern California, near known earthquake fault lines. If a major earthquake or other natural disaster were to occur in Northern California, our corporate offices and support center may be damaged or destroyed. Such a disruption could result in the temporary or permanent loss of critical data, suspension of operations, delays in shipments of product, and disruption of business in both the affected region and nationwide, which would adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. The unexpected loss of one or more members of our executive management team could adversely affect our business. Our success depends substantially on the contributions and abilities of our executive management team and other key employees. We believe that these individuals understand our operational strategies and priorities and the steps necessary to drive our long-term growth and stockholder value. Competition for personnel in our industry is strong and the ability to retain key employees during a revitalization effort can be difficult. While we have entered into employment agreements with each of our executive officers, we cannot make any assurances that we can retain these individuals for the period necessary for us to achieve and sustain profitability. Our failure to continue to recruit, retain, and motivate executive management and other key employees sufficient to maintain a competitive position within our industry and to implement our strategic priorities would adversely affect our results of operations. We are highly dependent on the financial performance of stores concentrated in certain geographic areas. Our financial performance is highly dependent on stores located in California. Stores located in California comprise over 50% of our total system stores and generate a significant portion of our Company Store revenues. In recent years California and other states have experienced significant economic impact due to the current economic climate. If geographic regions in which we have a high concentration of stores continue to experience significant economic pressures, our sales and operating results could be negatively impacted. In addition, state and local laws, government regulations, weather conditions and natural disasters affecting California and other regions where we have a high concentration of stores may have a material impact upon our results. Governmental regulation may adversely affect our ability to open new stores or otherwise adversely affect our existing and future operations and results. We and our franchisees are subject to various federal, state and local regulations. Each of our stores is subject to state and local licensing and regulation by health, sanitation, food and workplace safety and other agencies. We and our franchisees may experience material difficulties or failures in obtaining the necessary licenses or approvals for new stores, which could delay planned store openings. In addition, stringent and varied requirements of local regulators with respect to zoning, land use and environmental factors could delay or prevent development of new stores in particular locations. Our operations are also subject to the U.S. Fair Labor Standards Act, which governs such matters as minimum wages, overtime and other working conditions, along with the U.S. Americans with Disabilities Act, family leave mandates and a variety of similar laws enacted by the states that govern these and other employment law matters. In recent years, there has been an increased legislative, regulatory and consumer focus on nutrition and advertising practices in the food industry. Establishments operating in the quick-service and fast-casual segments have been a particular focus, and compliance with additional regulations can become costly and affect our operating results. 21 Table of Contents Our federal, state and local tax returns may, from time to time, be selected for audit by the taxing authorities, which may result in tax assessments, interest or penalties that could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial position. We are subject to federal, state and local taxes in the U.S. In making tax estimates and paying taxes, significant judgment is often required. Although we believe our tax positions and estimates are reasonable, if a taxing authority disagrees with the positions taken by the Company, we could have an additional tax liability, including interest and penalties. If material, payment of such additional amounts could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. Our ability to use our tax attributes may be limited due to an “ownership change.” Based on information available to us, we believe that we underwent an “ownership change” as defined in section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code during the second quarter of our 2009 fiscal year, as a result of our issuance of Series B-1 Convertible Preferred Stock and Series B-2 Convertible Preferred Stock and other prior trading in our stock. The amount of our taxable income for tax years ending after our ownership change which may be offset by net operating loss carryovers from pre-change years will be subject to an annual limitation, known as a section 382 limitation. The section 382 limitation is generally based on the value of our stock immediately before the ownership change multiplied by the long-term tax exempt rate in effect at the time of the ownership change, subject to increase if we had net unrealized built-in gains and if such net unrealized built-in gains are recognized, or are deemed recognized under IRS guidance, during the 5-year period beginning on the ownership change date. If we had net unrealized built-in losses, and if the net unrealized built-in losses are recognized during the 5-year period beginning on the ownership change date, such losses will generally be treated as if incurred prior to the ownership change, for purposes of applying the annual limitation. Any section 382 limitation amount not used in a taxable year to offset taxable income can be carried forward to the next post-change taxable year. Net operating losses may generally be carried forward to each of the 20 taxable years following the taxable year of the loss. With respect to tax credits, there is a limitation under section 383 of the Internal Revenue Code whereby the post-change year credit usage is limited to the credit equivalent of any section 382 limitation amount remaining after carrying forward pre-change losses. We have not yet ascertained the approximate amount of our section 382 limitation, whether we have net unrealized built-in gains or net unrealized built-in losses, the effect on the section 382 limitation of any potential future recognition of net unrealized built-in gains or any net unrealized built-in losses during the 5-year period beginning on the ownership change, and whether any net operating losses are likely to expire unused due to the 20 taxable year net operating loss carry forward period. The effect of future realization of net unrealized built-in gains or net unrealized built-in losses, if any, is subject to various factors including, among other things, when, and at what price, we dispose of the related assets. The section 382 limitation may be reduced if there is another section 382 ownership change, resulting in a lower section 382 limitation, during a time when we continue to be a loss corporation. If we are profitable in the future, and if the foregoing limitations on loss and credit usage affect our ability to offset taxable income and taxes with losses and credits, we could be adversely affected due to increased tax liability. If, based on the weight of available evidence, it is more-likely-than-not that some portion, or all, of our deferred tax assets will not be realized, then a valuation allowance is recognized with respect to our deferred tax assets. After consideration of all the evidence, both positive and negative, management has previously concluded (even prior to the determination that there was an ownership change resulting in a section 382 limitation) that it is not more likely than not that the deferred tax assets related to depreciation, tax goodwill, jambacards, accrued expenses and net operating losses will be realized and a full valuation allowance has been maintained against our net deferred tax assets. 22 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO OUR FRANCHISE BUSINESS Our growth strategy depends on increasing franchise ownership. Because our current growth strategy is to transition from a Company Store model to one of growth fueled by Franchise Store development, we receive an increasingly significant amount of our revenues in the form of royalties from our franchisees. Resultantly, the success of our business is increasingly dependent upon the operational and financial success of our franchisees. This strategy is subject to risks and uncertainties. While our franchise agreements set forth certain operational standards and guidelines, we have limited control over how our franchisees’ businesses are run, and any significant inability of our franchisees to operate successfully could adversely affect our operating results through decreased royalty payments. We may not be able to identify franchisee candidates with appropriate experience and financial resources or to negotiate mutually acceptable agreements with those that do. Our franchisee candidates may not have access to the financial or management resources that they need to open or continue operating the stores contemplated by their franchise agreements with us. In addition, franchisees may not be able to find suitable sites on which to develop new stores or negotiate acceptable lease terms for the sites, obtain the necessary permits and government approvals or meet construction schedules. If our franchisees incur too much debt or if economic or sales trends deteriorate such that they are unable to repay existing debt, it could result in financial distress or even possible insolvency or bankruptcy. If a significant number of our franchisees become financially distressed, this could harm our operating results through reduced or delayed royalty payments or increased rent obligations for leased properties on which we are contingently liable. Expansion into new geographic markets may present increased risks. Franchise growth is planned in new geographic areas in the United States and select international market for fiscal 2011. Our future results, and the results of new Franchise Stores, depend on various factors, including successful selection and expansion into these new geographic markets and market acceptance of the Jamba Juice experience. Those markets may have different competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns as compared to existing markets. As a result, those new stores may be less successful than stores in our existing markets. Consumers in a new market may not be familiar with the Jamba Juice brand, and we may need to build brand awareness in that market through greater investments in advertising and promotional activity than we originally planned. Franchisees may find it more difficult in new markets to hire, motivate and keep qualified employees who can project our vision, passion and culture. Stores opened in new markets may also have lower average store revenue than stores opened in existing markets, and may have higher construction, occupancy or operating costs than stores in existing markets. Furthermore, we may have difficulty in finding reliable suppliers or distributors or ones that can provide us, either initially or over time, with adequate supplies of ingredients meeting our quality standards. Revenue at stores opened in new markets may take longer to ramp up and reach expected revenue levels, and may never do so, thereby affecting our overall royalty income. As with the experience of other retail food concepts that have tried to expand nationally and internationally, we may find that the Jamba Juice concept has limited or no appeal to customers in new markets or we may experience a decline in the popularity of the Jamba Juice experience. Newly opened stores may not succeed, future markets and stores may not be successful and, even if we are successful, our average store revenue, and the royalty income generated therefrom, may not increase and may even decline. Our efforts to expand internationally may not be successful and could impair the value of our brand. Our current strategy includes international expansion in a number of countries around the world. Expanding into international markets will expose us to new risks and uncertainties, including product supply, import/export limitations and regulations to which we are not currently bound and may not be currently set up to handle, consumer preferences, occupancy costs, operating expenses and labor and infrastructure challenges. If stores open in international markets and such stores are unable to source inventory locally, franchisees may be required to import inventory from our U.S. distributors and any resulting import duties, tariffs, transportation or other charges may disproportionately impact such stores’ cost of goods which could harm the viability of such stores. 23 Table of Contents Finally, international operations have inherent risks such as foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, the application and effect of local laws and regulations and enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights. Additionally, effectively managing growth can be challenging, particularly as we continue to expand into new international markets where we must balance the need for flexibility and a degree of autonomy for local management against the need for consistency with our goals, philosophy and standards. Failure of our international expansion strategy could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Termination or non-renewal of franchise agreements may disrupt store performance. Each franchise agreement is subject to termination by us in the event of default by the franchisee after the applicable cure periods. Upon the expiration of the initial term of a franchise agreement, the franchisee generally has an option to renew for an additional term. There is no assurance that franchisees will meet the criteria for renewal or will desire or be able to renew their franchise agreements. If not renewed, a franchise agreement and payments required thereunder will terminate. We may be unable to find a new franchisee to replace such lost revenue. Furthermore, while we will be entitled to terminate franchise agreements following a default that is not cured within the applicable cure period, if any, the disruption to the performance of the stores could materially and adversely affect our business. Our franchising strategy means we will become more dependent on franchisees for our success. Several of our franchisees have been experiencing financial pressures, which, in certain instances, became more exacerbated during fiscal 2010. Our franchisees closed four stores in fiscal 2010 (2 through natural lease expiration and 2 through early termination), and franchisees may close additional stores in the future. Royalty revenues are directly correlated to sales by Franchise Stores and, accordingly, Franchise Store closures have an adverse effect on our revenues, results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, an insolvency or bankruptcy proceeding involving a franchisee could prevent us from collecting payments or exercising any of our other rights under the related franchise agreement. Our refranchising strategy may not realize intended benefits, the failure of royalty revenue to replace revenue available from Company Store sales or the failure of area developers to succeed in their obligations. As of December 28, 2010, we have refranchised 132 Company Stores as a result of our refranchising efforts, resulting in a shift to a greater percentage of Franchise Stores. The conversion of a Company Store to a Franchise Store reduces the total monthly revenue received by us from that store because we receive all of the revenue generated by a Company Store but receive only royalty payments generated by a Franchise Store. While we expect the conversion of a Company Store to a Franchise Store to reduce or eliminate the unreimbursed operating costs we incur in connection with the operation of such store, the future benefit realized from refranchising the store is uncertain and may be less than anticipated, and may not be sufficient to offset the loss of revenue from the conversion of the Company Store. The success of each transaction and the refranchising program as a whole will depend upon, among other things, our buyers’ ultimate ability to effectively operate the stores they purchased, our ability to limit our exposure to contingent liabilities in connection with the sale of our stores and whether the resulting ownership mix of Company Stores and Franchise Stores will allow us to meet our financial objectives. Our existing management, infrastructure, financial, and other resources may be inadequate to support our franchise growth strategy. In addition, although some buyers in our refranchising transactions have entered into area development agreements to develop and open additional stores, there is no guarantee that the franchisees will succeed in their efforts to open additional stores. Our franchisees could take actions that harm our reputation and reduce our royalty revenue. Franchisees are independent contractors and are not our employees. Further, we do not exercise control over the day-to-day operations of our Franchise Stores. Any operational or development shortcomings of our Franchise Stores, 24 Table of Contents including their failure to comply with applicable laws, are likely to be attributed to our system-wide operations in the eyes of consumers and could adversely affect our reputation and have a direct negative impact on the royalty revenue we receive from those stores. We could face liability from our franchisees and from government agencies. A franchisee or government agency may bring legal action against us based on the franchisor/franchisee relationship. Various state and federal laws govern our relationship with our franchisees and our potential sale of a franchise. If we fail to comply with these laws, we could be liable for damages to franchisees, fines or other penalties. Expensive litigation with our franchisees or government agencies may adversely affect both our profits and our important relations with our franchisees. RISKS RELATED TO THE FOOD SERVICE BUSINESS Litigation and publicity concerning food quality, health and other issues can result in liabilities, increased expenses, distraction of management and can also cause customers to avoid our products, which could adversely affect our results of operations, business and financial condition. Food service businesses can be adversely affected by litigation and complaints from customers or government authorities resulting from food quality, allergens, illness, injury or other health concerns or operating issues stemming from one retail location or a limited number of retail locations. Adverse publicity about these allegations may negatively affect us, regardless of whether the allegations are true, by discouraging customers from buying our products. Our customers occasionally file complaints or lawsuits against us alleging that we are responsible for some illness or injury they suffered at or after a visit to our stores, or that we have problems with food quality or operations. We are also subject to a variety of other claims arising in the ordinary course of our business, including personal injury claims, contract claims and claims alleging violations of federal and state law regarding workplace and employment matters, discrimination and similar matters, and we could become subject to class action or other lawsuits related to these or different matters in the future. Regardless of whether any claims against us are valid, or whether we are ultimately held liable, claims may be expensive to defend and may divert time and money away from our operations and hurt our performance. A judgment significantly in excess of our insurance coverage, or for which we are not covered by insurance, could materially and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Any adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may also materially and adversely affect our reputation or prospects, which in turn could adversely affect our results. In addition, the food services industry has been subject to a growing number of claims based on the nutritional content of food products they sell, and disclosure and advertising practices. We may also be subject to this type of proceeding in the future and, even if not, publicity about these matters (particularly directed at the quick-service and fast-casual segments of the industry) may harm our reputation or prospects and adversely affect our results. Food safety concerns and instances of food-borne illnesses could harm our customers, result in negative publicity and cause the temporary closure of some stores and, in some cases, could adversely affect the price and availability of fruits and vegetables, any of which could harm our brand reputation, result in a decline in revenue or an increase in costs. We consider food safety a top priority and dedicate substantial resources toward ensuring that our customers enjoy high-quality, safe and wholesome products. However, we cannot guarantee that our internal controls and training will be fully effective in preventing all food-borne illnesses. Furthermore, our reliance on third-party food suppliers and distributors increases the risk that food-borne illness incidents (such as e. coli, hepatitis A, salmonella or listeria) could occur outside of our control and at multiple locations. Instances of food-borne illnesses, whether real or perceived, and whether at our stores or those of our competitors, could harm customers and otherwise result in negative publicity about us or the products we serve, which could adversely affect 25 Table of Contents revenue. If there is an incident involving our stores serving contaminated products, our customers may be harmed, our revenue may decrease and our brand name may be impaired. If our customers become ill from food-borne illnesses, we could be forced to temporarily close some stores. In addition, we may have different or additional competitors for our intended customers as a result of making any such changes and may not be able to compete successfully against those competitors. Food safety concerns and instances of food-borne illnesses and injuries caused by food contamination have in the past, and could in the future, adversely affect the price and availability of affected ingredients and cause customers to shift their preferences, particularly if we choose to pass any higher ingredient costs along to consumers. As a result, our costs may increase and our revenue may decline. A decrease in customer traffic as a result of these health concerns or negative publicity, or as a result of a change in our menu or dining experience or a temporary closure of any of our stores, could materially harm our business. Bans on the use of polystyrene products can negatively impact our operating results. We are subject to regulations regarding the use of polystyrene products, and several counties in which our stores are located have already banned the use of our polystyrene cups. As more state and local governments take similar actions, we may be subject to further bans on the use of polystyrene cups. A national ban on the use of polystyrene cups would force us to eliminate the use of polystyrene which could potentially increase our costs and create customer satisfaction issues that could ultimately affect our operating results. RISKS RELATED TO OWNERSHIP OF COMMON STOCK Failure of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting could harm its business and financial results. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Internal control over financial reporting includes: (i) maintaining reasonably detailed records that accurately and fairly reflect our transactions; and (ii) providing reasonable assurance that we (a) record transactions as necessary to prepare the financial statements, (b) make receipts and expenditures in accordance with management authorizations, and (c) would timely prevent or detect any unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute assurance that we would prevent or detect a misstatement of our financial statements or fraud. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud. A significant financial reporting failure could cause an immediate loss of investor confidence in us and a sharp decline in the market price of our common stock. Our anti-takeover provisions may delay or prevent a change of control of us, which may adversely affect the price of our common stock. Certain provisions in our corporate documents and Delaware law may delay or prevent a change of control of us, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. For example, we have adopted a stockholder rights plan, commonly known as a “poison pill,” which would make it difficult for someone to acquire the Company without the approval of the Board of Directors. Also, the Company’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws include other anti-takeover provisions such as: • Limitations on the ability of stockholders to amend its charter documents, including stockholder supermajority voting requirements; • The inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call a special meeting absent the request of the holders of a majority of the outstanding common stock; and • Advance notice requirements for nomination for election to the board of directors and for stockholder proposals. 26 Table of Contents The Company is also afforded the protections of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which prevents it from engaging in a business combination with a person who acquires at least 15% of its common stock for a period of three years from the date such person acquired such common stock, unless board of directors or stockholder approval is obtained. Our stock price may fluctuate significantly The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and is likely to continue to be volatile. Our stock price could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors. The stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. Broad market factors, including the effect of international political instability, armed conflict, natural disasters, financial markets, and general economic conditions, may have a material adverse effect on our stock price, regardless of our actual performance. The holders of our Series B Preferred are entitled to receive dividends and liquidation payments in preference to the holders of our common stock. Dividends accrue on shares of the Series B Preferred at a rate of 8% per annum and are payable quarterly in cash at the option of the Company and can increase to 10% in the event the Company fails to satisfy certain obligations. Upon a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Company, whether voluntary or involuntary, the holders of shares of the Series B Preferred are entitled to receive a liquidation payment prior to the payment of any amount with respect to shares of our common stock. Because of the substantial liquidation preference to which the holders of shares of the Series B Preferred are entitled, the amount available to be distributed to the holders of shares of our common stock upon a liquidation of the Company could be substantially limited or reduced to zero and may make it more difficult to raise capital or recruit and retain key personnel in the future. The securities purchase agreement for the sale of shares of the Series B Preferred (the “Securities Purchase Agreement”) and the certificate of designation governing the Series B Preferred (the “Series B Certificate of Designation”) contain various covenants and restrictions which may limit our ability to operate our business. Under the Securities Purchase Agreement and the Series B Certificate of Designation, we are not permitted, without the affirmative vote or written consent of the holders of at least a majority of the shares of Series B-1 Preferred and the Series B-2 Preferred, voting together as a single class, directly or indirectly, to take or agree to take certain actions involving a broad array of corporate activities. These restrictions could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet extraordinary capital needs or could otherwise restrict corporate activities, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business. The holders of shares of the Series B Preferred will have substantial voting power on matters submitted to a vote of stockholders and on the composition of our board of directors. The holders of shares of the Series B Preferred are entitled to vote on all matters on which the holders of shares of our common stock are entitled to vote, voting together with the holders of shares of our common stock as a single class. Each share of Series B Preferred is currently entitled to 100 votes per share, subject to adjustment. As a result, the shares of Series B Preferred currently represent, in the aggregate, approximately 24% of the voting power of our equity securities and may therefore have considerable influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval. The holders of the Series B Preferred also have significant control over the composition of our Board of Directors. Currently, the holders of Series B-1 Preferred have the right to elect two members of our Board and the holders of the Series B-2 Preferred have the right to elect one member of our Board. Under certain circumstances, the holders of Series B Preferred may be entitled to elect additional directors. Upon conversion of 27 Table of Contents the Series B Preferred into common stock, assuming certain ownership thresholds continue to be met, the holders of Series B Preferred will continue to have contractual rights to nominate members to our Board. Because the holders of shares of the Series B Preferred will have the right to designate these members to our Board, they have considerable influence on the composition of our Board and, therefore, the conduct of our business. The Series B Preferred is redeemable at the option of the holders under certain circumstances. On or after June 16, 2016, the holders of at least a majority of the then-outstanding shares of Series B Preferred may require us to redeem all or any portion of the outstanding shares of Series B Preferred. The redemption price per share of the Series B Preferred is to be calculated in accordance with the Certificate of Designation. Depending on our cash resources at the time that this redemption right is exercised, we may or may not be able to fund the redemption from our available cash resources. If we were unable to fund the redemption from available cash resources we would need to find an alternative source of financing to do so. There can be no assurances that we would be able to raise such funds on favorable terms or at all if they are required. We have agreed to give the holders of shares of the Series B Preferred the right to participate in subsequent stock issuances. We agreed that if we issue and sell any new equity securities after June 16, 2009, subject to certain exceptions, we will give the Series B Purchasers the right to purchase a portion of those new securities so as to permit each of them to maintain their proportional ownership in our stock as long as such purchaser beneficially owns at least 25% of the shares such purchaser originally purchased on June 16, 2009. The existence of this right may make it more difficult for us to obtain financing from third parties that do not wish to have Series B Purchasers participating in their financing. The Series B Preferred private placement could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Each share of Series B Preferred Stock is convertible into that number of shares of common stock equal to the quotient determined by dividing $115 (as adjusted for any stock dividends, combinations, splits, recapitalizations and the like with respect to such shares) by the then applicable conversion price (currently $1.15 per share). Upon such conversion, the Company must pay any dividend arrearage, plus accrued but unpaid dividends up through, but excluding, the applicable date of conversion, whether or not declared. The holder of a share of Series B Preferred may elect to convert that holder’s share at any time. In addition, after June 16, 2011, we have the right to force conversion of the then outstanding shares of Series B Preferred upon certain conditions being met. Sales in the public market of the shares of common stock acquired upon conversion of shares of the Series B Preferred or the exercise of an outstanding warrant for Series B Preferred, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise funds in additional stock financings. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 