Risk Factors” that we believe could cause actual results or events to differ materially from the forward-looking statements that we make. Our forward-looking statements do not reflect the potential impact of any future acquisitions, mergers, dispositions, joint ventures or investments we may make. Except as required by law, we do not assume any intent to update any forward-looking statements after the date on which the statement is made, whether as a result of new information, future events or circumstances or otherwise. 3 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Unless the context otherwise requires, we use the terms “Anthera Pharmaceuticals,” “Anthera,” “we,” “us,” “the Company” and “our” in this report to refer to Anthera Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and its sole subsidiary. We use various trademarks, service marks and trade names in our business, including without limitation “Anthera Pharmaceuticals” and “Anthera.” This report also contains trademarks, services marks and trade names of other businesses that are the property of their respective holders. Overview Anthera Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is a biopharmaceutical company focused on developing and commercializing products to treat serious diseases associated with inflammation, including cardiovascular and autoimmune diseases. We currently have one Phase 3 clinical program, varespladib, and two Phase 2 clinical programs, A-623 and A-001. Two of our product candidates, varespladib and A-001, are designed to inhibit a novel enzyme target known as secretory phospholipase A2, or sPLA2. Elevated levels of sPLA2 have been implicated in a variety of acute inflammatory conditions, including acute coronary syndrome and acute chest syndrome associated with sickle cell disease, as well as in chronic diseases, including stable coronary artery disease, or CAD. In addition, A-623, a phase 2 product candidate, targets elevated levels of B-lymphocyte stimulator, or BLyS, also known as B-cell Activating Factor, or BAFF, which has been associated with a variety of B-cell mediated autoimmune diseases, including systemic lupus erythematosus, or lupus, lupus nephritis, or LN, rheumatoid arthritis, multiple sclerosis, Sjögren’s Syndrome, Graves’ Disease and others. We were incorporated in Delaware in 2004. Our corporate headquarters are located at 25801 Industrial Boulevard, Suite B, Hayward, California 94545 and our telephone number is (510) 856-5600. Summary of Product Development Programs 4 Table of Contents We have worldwide rights to develop and commercialize our products in all indications and markets, with the exception of Japan where Shionogi & Co., Ltd. retains commercial rights to our sPLA2 product candidates. Our current development plans are focused on acute treatment and orphan indications that may provide an accelerated and cost-efficient path to regulatory approval and commercialization. We believe that certain of these markets can be commercialized through a limited specialty sales force. In addition, we believe that our product candidates can also address market opportunities in chronic indications and we may seek development and commercialization partners to address chronic, non-specialty and international markets. Inflammation and Diseases The inflammatory process is a powerful and essential early line of defense for protection against injury and to repair body tissue. As a result, it is tightly regulated by the body to ensure appropriate activation and prompt resolution. However, under certain circumstances, the normal process can malfunction, leading to acute or chronic inflammation or inappropriate activation directed against the body’s own tissues. All of these circumstances can cause significant damage to cells and tissues, leading to a range of inflammatory disorders, such as cardiovascular and autoimmune diseases. Our sPLA2 Inhibition Portfolio Building upon our knowledge of the regulation of inflammatory pathways and the growing body of evidence that links inflammation to multiple disease states, we believe that we have developed a leadership position in the field of sPLA2 inhibition. Our sPLA2 inhibitors have been studied in a number of inflammatory disorders in multiple therapeutic areas. The effect of our sPLA2 inhibitors on sPLA2 concentration and activity have been implicated in acute coronary syndrome and acute chest syndrome associated with sickle cell disease. We currently have the two most advanced sPLA2 inhibitors in clinical development. Our lead product candidate, varespladib (an oral prodrug of A-001), is a broad-spectrum inhibitor of sPLA2 enzymes and is being evaluated in a Phase 3 clinical study for short-term (16-week) treatment of patients who have experienced an acute coronary syndrome. The American Heart Association defines acute coronary syndrome as any group of clinical symptoms related to acute myocardial ischemia, including unstable angina, or UA. Varespladib, when combined with Lipitor (atorvastatin), is one of only a few therapeutics in development with the potential to offer a unique and synergistic treatment approach targeting inflammation, elevated lipid levels and atherosclerosis as part of physician-directed standard of care. Through its novel mechanism of action, varespladib may have applications in a broad range of acute and chronic cardiovascular diseases. Based on the successful results of our completed Phase 2b clinical study, we initiated a Phase 3 clinical study, VISTA-16, in patients with acute coronary syndrome in June 2010. Our second product candidate, varespladib sodium, A-001, is an intravenously administered inhibitor of sPLA2,which we are planning to evaluate in a Phase 2 clinical study for the prevention of acute chest syndrome associated with sickle cell disease. Acute chest syndrome is a form of inflammation-induced lung failure and is the most common cause of death in patients with sickle cell disease. Given that there are currently no approved drugs for the prevention of acute chest syndrome associated with sickle cell disease, we have received orphan drug designation and fast track status from the FDA for A-001. We also have a broad series of additional sPLA2 inhibitors designed with distinct chemical scaffolds in preclinical development. These product candidates are intended to provide new sPLA2 inhibitors for our existing target indications as well as new candidates for other therapeutic areas. Our lead candidate within the series, A-003, is chemically distinct from A-001 and varespladib and has shown increased potency against the target enzymes and higher drug exposure after dosing in preclinical studies. As a result, A-003 may confer beneficial pharmacodynamic effects in patients and can be formulated for oral or intravenously administered use. We plan to file an investigational new drug application, or IND, for A-003 in the future and we may continue to assess additional new compounds. We have explored the use of our varespladib and A-001 sPLA2 inhibitors as both topical and inhalation therapies in animal models for the treatment of atopic dermatitis and asthma, respectively. Results from a standard mouse model of edema demonstrated that topically administered varespladib was equivalent to the marketed 5 Table of Contents immunosuppressant Elidel in resolving inflammation. In a sheep model of allergen-induced asthma, inhaled A-001 demonstrated an improvement in lung function similar to inhaled steroids. sPLA2 Biology sPLA2 is a family of enzymes directly involved in the acute and chronic steps of an inflammatory response. sPLA2 activity is highly elevated during the early stages of inflammation, and its acute effects serve to substantially amplify the inflammatory process. The sPLA2 enzyme catalyzes the first step in the arachidonic acid pathway of inflammation, one of the main metabolic processes for the production of inflammatory mediators, which, when amplified, are responsible for causing damage to cells and tissue. Specifically, sPLA2 breaks down phospholipids that result in the formation of fatty acids such as arachidonic acid. Arachidonic acid is subsequently metabolized to form several pro-inflammatory and thrombogenic molecules. In cardiovascular diseases such as acute coronary syndrome, elevated levels of sPLA2 mass and sPLA2 activity have acute and chronic implications on disease progression and patient outcomes. In published studies and our own clinical studies, significant elevations in sPLA2 activity and mass have been seen from 24 hours to two weeks following an acute coronary syndrome and can persist for up to an additional 12 weeks thereafter. Shortly after a heart attack, sPLA2 is dramatically elevated, amplifying inflammation that is associated with more frequent and secondary cardiovascular events. This resulting elevated level of inflammation is problematic for acute coronary syndrome patients who are already at higher risk of complications during the weeks following their initial event. For example, increased inflammation can destabilize vulnerable vascular lesions or atherosclerotic plaque, destroy damaged but viable cardiac cells and adversely modify lipids, any of which may lead to the recurrence of a major adverse cardiovascular event, or MACE. Historical and recent clinical results have demonstrated circulating levels of sPLA2 are significantly correlated with a well-established inflammatory marker, C-reactive protein, or CRP. These and other clinical studies have also demonstrated that sPLA2 independently predicts coronary events in patients that have recently experienced an acute coronary syndrome and patients with stable CAD independent of other standard risk factors. In a stable cardiovascular patient, sPLA2 not only sustains chronic vascular inflammation as discussed earlier, but it also adversely remodels lipoproteins such as low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, or LDL-C. sPLA2 interacts with LDL-C in a series of reactions that result in smaller, more pro-atherogenic and pro-inflammatory LDL-C particles. Moreover, these modified lipoproteins have a reduced affinity for LDL-C receptors, which are responsible for removal of cholesterol from the body. As a result, LDL-C remains in circulation longer and has a greater tendency to deposit in the artery wall. This increased LDL-C deposition and sustained chronic vascular inflammation may contribute to the development of atherosclerosis. The family of sPLA2 enzymes includes at least three forms that play a role in inflammation and the development of cardiovascular disease or lung injury. While sPLA2enzymes are a member of the phospholipase family that includes a lipoprotein associated phospholipase A2, or Lp-PLA2, there are important distinctions. Although both are present in blood, Lp-PLA2 is mostly bound to LDL-C and high-density lipoprotein, or HDL, while sPLA2 enzymes are not. Based on our clinical studies, we believe that our sPLA2 inhibitor, varespladib, can be distinguished from other PLA2 enzyme inhibitors such as those targeted at inhibiting Lp-PLA2 because varespladib treatment: • is synergistic with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, or statins, including Lipitor (atorvastatin), in reducing LDL-C, total cholesterol and non-HDL cholesterol in patients with CAD; • lowers circulating small, dense and pro-atherogenic, or plaque-building LDL-C particles, while Lp-PLA2 inhibition has not demonstrated similar effects; • has been shown to lower CRP, a well-established marker of inflammation in a statistically significant manner; and • reduces plaque volume and aneurysms in standard rodent models of atherosclerosis and has demonstrated synergistic reductions of plaque volume in standard rodent models of atherosclerosis when used in combination with statins. 6 Table of Contents In diseases such as acute chest syndrome, a very serious form of lung injury associated with sickle cell disease, sPLA2 acts acutely on a number of substrates that amplify the inflammatory disease process. Sickle cell disease is a genetic disorder which leads to the structural alteration, or “sickling,” of otherwise healthy red blood cells. Patients with sickle cell disease experience periods of intense pain known as vaso-occlusive crisis, or VOC, as structurally altered red blood cells bind together and occlude small blood vessels that supply blood and nutrients to vital tissue and bone. sPLA2 levels are dramatically elevated in sickle cell patients during an episode of VOC as well as within 24 to 48 hours of the onset of acute chest syndrome. During VOC, microscopic fat emboli, or droplets of fat from the bone marrow, are prevalent and can break free and become lodged in the lung. These emboli are substrates for sPLA2 enzymes and provide fuel for an already established inflammatory response, increasing lung injury. In addition, sPLA2 has been demonstrated to degrade human lung surfactant, a component necessary in maintaining appropriate lung function, which further complicates lung injury. We believe that early intervention with a drug designed to inhibit sPLA2 activity may offer a unique opportunity to reduce the complications associated with certain inflammatory diseases such as acute coronary syndrome in cardiovascular patients and acute chest syndrome in patients with sickle cell disease. Our BAFF Antagonism Portfolio BAFF has been associated with a wide range of B-cell mediated autoimmune diseases including lupus, LN, rheumatoid arthritis, multiple sclerosis, Sjögren’s Syndrome, Graves’ Disease and others. The role of BAFF in lupus and rheumatoid arthritis has recently been validated in multiple clinical studies with other BAFF antagonists. We are advancing the development of our BAFF inhibitor molecule, A-623, a selective peptibody, to exploit its broad potential clinical utility in autoimmune diseases. A peptibody is a novel fusion protein that is distinct from an antibody. We have worldwide rights to A-623 in all potential indications. We have initiated PEARL-SC, the Phase 2b clinical study of A-623, for the treatment of Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (lupus). Lupus patients suffer from a chronic autoimmune disease, which often leads to severe skin rash, fatigue, joint pain, major organ complications and cardiovascular disease. A-623 demonstrates anti-BAFF activity and has shown statistically significant reductions in B-cells in two Phase 1 clinical studies in patients with lupus. We believe A-623 may offer a number of potential differentiations over other BAFF antagonists, as well as other novel B-cell directed therapies including: • convenient, at-home, patient-administered subcutaneous dosing with a range of dosing frequencies including monthly and weekly; • the ability to inhibit the activity of both membrane-bound and soluble BAFF; • selective modulation and reduction of relevant B-cell sub-types in lupus patients; • a novel molecular structure, which may confer differentiating pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic characteristics, potentially providing efficacy and dosing benefits, as well as manufacturing benefits and lower cost of goods based on a bacterial fermentation manufacturing process; and • multiple binding domains achieve highest reported affinity for inhibition of BAFF. 7 Table of Contents Product Development Programs We have focused our product development programs on anti-inflammatory therapeutics for cardiovascular diseases, lupus and other serious diseases for which we believe that current treatments are either inadequate or non-existent. Our current product development programs are listed in the table below. Worldwide Development Product Product Candidate Phase Rights Description Next Milestone(s) Lead Development Programs Varespladib with Lipitor (atorvastatin) Phase 3 Anthera(1) • Orally administered sPLA2 inhibitor • Target indication for the prevention of secondary MACE following an acute coronary syndrome (16-week treatment) • Biomarker analysis on independent markers of cardiovascular risk • Data Safety Monitoring Board, or DSMB, review of clinical data • Interim efficacy review of MACE A-623 Phase 2b Anthera • Selective subcutaneous administered “dual action” peptibody antagonist of soluble and membrane bound BAFF cytokine • Being developed for the treatment of B-cell mediated autoimmune diseases • Target indication for lupus • Completion of technology transfer to contract manufacturer • Establish comparability plan with U.S. FDA • Initiation of Phase 3 manufacturing campaign Additional Programs A-001-varespladib sodium Phase 2 Anthera(1) • Intravenous sPLA2 inhibitor with orphan drug and fast track status • Indicated for prevention of acute chest syndrome in hospitalized patients with sickle cell disease • Publish final impacts data A-623 Phase 2 Anthera • Selective subcutaneous administered antagonist of soluble and membrane bound BAFF for the treatment of B-cell mediated disease e.g. Sjogren’s syndrome or small vessel vasculitis or transplant rejection • Submit orphan product protocol to U.S. FDA (1) Shionogi & Co., Ltd. retains product rights in Japan We have historically spent a significant portion of our capital resources on research and development. Our research and development expenses were $29.5, $8.4 and $10.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Varespladib Varespladib is an orally administered pro-drug of A-001, which is a broad-spectrum, once-daily inhibitor of the IIa, V and X iso-forms of the sPLA2 enzyme that has demonstrated potent anti-inflammatory, lipid-lowering and lipid-modulating treatment effects in multiple clinical studies. We have commenced the Phase 3 VISTA-16 study to 8 Table of Contents evaluate varespladib in combination with atorvastatin therapy, specifically Lipitor, for the short-term (16-week) treatment of acute coronary syndrome. We have an agreement with the FDA on a Special Protocol Assessment, or SPA for the VISTA-16 study. An SPA provides an opportunity for the clinical study sponsor to receive feedback from the FDA regarding the potential adequacy of a clinical study to meet certain regulatory and scientific requirements if conducted in accordance with the SPA agreement. An SPA is not a guarantee of an approval of a product candidate or any permissible claims about the product candidate. To date, over 1,000 patients and healthy volunteers in at least 15 previous clinical studies have been exposed to varespladib. Varespladib was generally well-tolerated in studies where patients were exposed to a maximum of 48 weeks of therapy. Varespladib has been studied in combination with Lipitor (atorvastatin) in a Phase 2b clinical study in acute coronary syndrome patients and two earlier Phase 2 clinical studies in stable CAD patients, the majority of whom were on various statin therapies. We currently have all worldwide product rights to varespladib, except in Japan where Shionogi & Co., Ltd. retains rights. We originally licensed our sPLA2 inhibitor portfolio, including varespladib and A-001, from Eli Lilly & Company, or Eli Lilly, and Shionogi & Co., Ltd. in July 2006. Market Opportunity — Acute Coronary Syndrome According to the American Heart Association, over 18 million people in the United States have experienced an acute coronary syndrome and an estimated 1.5 million Americans will have a new or recurrent heart attack. In addition, the American Heart Association estimates that worldwide, cardiovascular disease kills an estimated 17.5 million people each year. According to British Heart Foundation statistics, CAD, which often leads to acute coronary syndrome or heart attacks, accounts for 1.9 million deaths in Europe annually. According to the World Health Organization, or the WHO, cardiovascular disease is the most common cause of death in the western world and a major cause of hospital admissions. In addition, the American Heart Association provides that for people over the age of 40, 20% of them will die within one year following an initial heart attack, and over one-third of them will die within the first five years of an initial heart attack. These numbers are expected to increase given an aging population, as well as the rising epidemics of diabetes and obesity, two conditions known to increase the risk of acute coronary syndrome. The American Heart Association defines acute coronary syndrome as any group of clinical signs and symptoms related to acute myocardial ischemia. Acute myocardial ischemia can often present as chest pain due to insufficient blood supply to the heart muscle that results from CAD. Acute coronary syndrome covers a spectrum of clinical conditions that include ST-elevated myocardial infarction, or STEMI, non-ST-elevated myocardial infarction, or NSTEMI, and UA. Both STEMI and NSTEMI are forms of a heart attack, where damage to the heart muscle occurs due to ischemia, which is lack of blood flow to tissues due to a blockage of a vessel. Typically, UA results in chest pain from ischemia, but does not cause permanent damage to the heart muscle. Furthermore, for any patient who experiences an acute coronary syndrome, the risk of a secondary MACE is significantly increased immediately following the initial event. Large clinical outcome studies such as MIRACL and PROVE-IT have previously reported, and data from our own FRANCIS Phase 2b clinical study supports, the 16-week rate of secondary MACE in acute coronary syndrome patients to be between 6.1% and 14.8%. Current treatments for CAD other than interventional procedures include a variety of medications such as aspirin, statins and anti-platelet and anti-coagulant therapeutics. These medications are used to offer both acute and chronic benefits to patients. For patients presenting with acute coronary syndrome, therapeutics are administered quickly to improve blood flow to the heart and limit the risk associated with continued ischemia and thrombosis, which is the formation of a blood clot inside a vessel, which obstructs blood flow. In addition, interventional procedures and other medications, such as statins that are initiated early primarily for lipid benefits, are continued in an attempt to provide chronic protection against secondary MACE through improvement in lipid profiles such as lowering LDL-C. Inflammation in Cardiovascular Disease In patients experiencing an acute coronary syndrome, the relationship between higher levels of inflammation, as measured by CRP, sPLA2 and interleukin-6, or IL-6, and increased risk for MACE has been demonstrated extensively. In numerous clinical studies with a variety of therapeutic interventions, reductions in CRP have been correlated with 9 Table of Contents reductions in subsequent MACE. We believe, if our Phase 3 pivotal study is successful, that varespladib, if approved by the FDA, would represent the first anti-inflammatory therapeutic approved for prevention of MACE. CRP is one of the most commonly used marker of inflammation. It has been correlated with adverse cardiovascular outcomes in multiple clinical studies. Although a causative role for CRP has not been established, inflammation is known to promote acute coronary syndrome and CRP may play a direct role in both vascular inflammation as well as plaque rupture. Statins reduce the level of CRP and other markers of inflammation in patients with stable CAD. In April 2001, the Journal of the American Medical Association published results from the MIRACL study describing the effect of statins in acute coronary syndrome, where inflammation is greatly elevated. 3,086 were randomized within 96 hours of their index event to treatment with high-dose Lipitor (atorvastatin) or placebo. Lipitor (atorvastatin) significantly reduced secondary MACE after 16 weeks. A second paper from the same study, published in Circulation in 2003, described the rapid decline of inflammatory markers in patients on statin treatment that was associated with reduced MACE. After 16 weeks, Lipitor (atorvastatin) reduced CRP levels by 34%. More recently, in 2005, the New England Journal of Medicine published data from the PROVE-IT study. A total of 3,745 patients were randomized to either intensive statin therapy with 80 mg Lipitor (atorvastatin) or moderate statin therapy with 40 mg pravastatin. Patients with low CRP or LDL-C had fewer MACE than those with higher levels of either CRP or LDL-C. Patients who had both LDL-C < 70 mg/dL and CRP < 1 mg/L had the fewest number of secondary events overall. LDL-C in Cardiovascular Disease The direct relationship between lower LDL-C levels and reduced risk for major cardiovascular events has been consistently demonstrated for over a decade in 18 outcome studies involving over 119,000 patients. Results from large clinical outcome studies demonstrate achieving incrementally lower LDL-C levels reduces the risk of future cardiovascular events and provides continued patient benefit. As a result, the lipid treatment guidelines have been revised to establish more aggressive LDL-C treatment goals over time. The most recent guidelines from the National Cholesterol Education Program’s Adult Treatment Panel III, or NCEP ATP III, updated in 2004 advocate treatment goals for LDL-C below 100 mg/dL for high-risk patients and 70 mg/dL for very high-risk patients. Given the breadth of more recent clinical data available, we believe that future treatment guidelines from the NCEP will likely establish new LDL-C treatment goals that apply the 70 mg/dL standard or lower to a broader population of at-risk patients. Patients enrolled in our FRANCIS Phase 2b clinical study and our planned Phase 3 acute coronary syndrome study represent high-risk patients as defined by the NCEP. In order to achieve these more aggressive LDL-C targets, doctors prescribe other approved lipid-lowering therapies such as cholesterol absorption inhibitors, nicotinic acid and fish oils in combination with statins to further reduce LDL-C. Still, many acute coronary syndrome patients who represent the NCEP ATP III guideline categories of high-risk and very high-risk do not achieve these recommended lipid goals despite maximum lipid-lowering therapies. Moreover, substantial residual risk remains even among the group of patients who do achieve these aggressive LDL-C goals suggesting additional biological mechanisms, including inflammation, may be relevant. This is exemplified in a November 2008 publication in the New England Journal of Medicine that detailed the results from a 17,000 patient, multinational, primary prevention study named JUPITER. The study randomized patients with relatively normal levels of LDL-C, but elevated levels of inflammation based on CRP, to statin or placebo therapy. The JUPITER study was stopped early because those patients randomized to statin therapy demonstrated a statistically significant reduction in CRP, which also translated to a statistically significant reduction in cardiovascular events versus those on placebo. The reduction in events was well in excess of that which would be predicted from historical data evaluating LDL-C reductions alone. While these results were generated in a primary prevention setting, we believe that the benefits of reducing inflammation may prove to be even more meaningful in settings where patients are in a hyper-inflammatory state, such as following an acute coronary syndrome. As a result of these studies, we believe that there is a substantial need for novel therapies that provide meaningful reductions in inflammation while also improving LDL-C levels in high-risk cardiovascular patients beyond the benefits of statin therapy. Therefore, it is our belief that targeting inflammation and elevated LDL-C with sPLA2 inhibition during the early phase of an acute coronary syndrome will further improve patient outcomes. 10 Table of Contents We believe that varespladib is one of only a few novel drugs in development with the potential to offer a clinical benefit to high-risk cardiovascular patients. Varespladib’s unique mechanism provides potent anti-inflammatory activity, as measured by reductions in sPLA2, CRP and IL-6; incremental lipid-lowering activity, as measured by LDL-C; and lipid-modulating activity beyond that achievable with statin therapy alone. Furthermore, because of their complementary mechanisms, we believe that the combination of statins and varespladib can provide synergistic anti-inflammatory and lipid-lowering benefits. We also have preliminary data to suggest that varespladib may be synergistic with other cardiovascular therapeutic regimens, such as niacin. Pivotal VISTA-16 Study — Acute Coronary Syndrome In 2008, based on the results from Phase 2 stable CAD studies, as discussed below, we met with the FDA to discuss the next steps of clinical development of varespladib during our end of Phase 2 meeting. As a result of that meeting and the results from our Phase 2b acute coronary syndrome study, we submitted an SPA to the FDA for the Phase 3 VISTA-16 study of varespladib for the short-term (16-week) treatment of patients who have recently experienced an acute coronary syndrome. We reached agreement with the FDA on all aspects of the VISTA-16 study protocol, including patient inclusion/exclusion criteria, study size, statistical considerations, efficacy endpoints, study duration, randomization and lipid management strategies. An independent DSMB will continually evaluate the performance of the VISTA-16 study over time to ensure patient safety. In addition, after a minimum of 1,000 patients have been enrolled in the VISTA-16 study, an independent statistician not involved with the conduct of the VISTA-16 study will conduct a biomarker analysis to ensure patient levels of inflammation, as measured by sPLA2, CRP and IL-6, and lipid profiles, as measured by LDL-C, have met pre-specified reductions versus placebo at various time-points. These markers of inflammation and lipid profiles are established in the clinical community and pharmaceutical industry as independent predictors of cardiovascular risk and, if positive, will provide additional validation of our previous findings from the FRANCIS Phase 2b clinical study. At the same time, the independent DSMB will review all clinical data from the VISTA-16 study to ensure no emergent adverse safety signals. In June 2010, we initiated enrollment in the VISTA-16 clinical study. Pursuant to our SPA agreement with the FDA, our multinational, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase 3 acute coronary syndrome VISTA-16 study will enroll up to 6,500 patients. We anticipate the study will be conducted in up to 15 countries and up to 500 centers. However, enrollment may be stopped anytime after a minimum of 385 adjudicated endpoint events as described in the protocol have occurred. This number of events could allow us to detect a treatment effect on the composite endpoint as low as 18.1% with a p-value of less than 0.05. We may increase the sample size if the adjudicated endpoint events occur at a lower rate than we expect. Patients will be randomized at entry to receive 16 weeks of either 500 mg once-daily of varespladib or placebo in addition to a 20, 40 or 80 milligram dose of Lipitor (atorvastatin). The dose of Lipitor (atorvastatin) may be adjusted after eight weeks if the patient’s LDL-C level remains above 100 mg/dL. Survival status will be obtained for patients six months after the completion of dosing. The clinical study will attempt to recruit a similar population of high-risk cardiovascular patients with acute coronary syndrome to those enrolled in the FRANCIS study. As in FRANCIS, randomization must occur within 96 hours of hospitalization for the acute coronary syndrome event, or if already hospitalized, within 96 hours of event diagnosis. Patient blood chemistry will be evaluated at baseline, 24 hours and weeks one, two, four, eight and 16. Randomization is being stratified by the presence or absence of lipid-lowering therapy prior to the index event as well as the type of acute coronary syndrome event, such as UA, NSTEMI or STEMI. The number of subjects who undergo percutaneous coronary intervention following the index event and prior to randomization will be limited to no more than 55% of the total patient population. The primary endpoint of the VISTA-16 study is to determine whether 16 weeks of once-daily treatment with varespladib plus a dose of Lipitor (atorvastatin) is superior to placebo plus Lipitor (atorvastatin) in the time to the first occurrence of the combined endpoint of cardiovascular death, non-fatal myocardial infarction, non-fatal stroke or documented UA with objective evidence of ischemia requiring hospitalization as defined by recent FDA draft guidance. On July 22, 2009, the Center for Drug Education and Research division of the FDA issued draft recommendations for standardized definitions for cardiovascular outcomes trials. The VISTA-16 clinical study endpoint definitions conform to these guidelines. 11 Table of Contents Components of VISTA-16 Primary (MACE) Endpoint • Cardiovascular Death • Non-Fatal Myocardial Infarction • Non-Fatal Stroke • Documented UA with Objective Evidence of Ischemia Requiring Hospitalization A secondary endpoint for the VISTA-16 study is to determine whether varespladib plus a dose of Lipitor (atorvastatin) is superior to placebo plus Lipitor (atorvastatin) in the time to the first occurrence of the combined endpoint of all cause mortality, non-fatal myocardial infarction, non-fatal stroke or documented UA with objective evidence of ischemia requiring hospitalization. A comparison between treatment groups will also be made for each component of the primary efficacy endpoint. Additionally, the time to multiple occurrences of any non-fatal component of the composite primary endpoint will also be explored. The biomarkers CRP, IL-6, LDL-C and sPLA2 will also be evaluated at each time point of the clinical study. Historical Clinical Studies Phase 2b Acute Coronary Syndrome Study — FRANCIS (Fewer Recurrent Acute coronary events with Near-term Cardiovascular Inflammation Suppression) In July 2008, we initiated a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase 2b clinical study that enrolled 625 acute coronary syndrome patients across 35 centers in three countries. Given the drug’s combined anti-inflammatory, lipid-lowering and lipid-modulating effects, we evaluated the effects of varespladib in acute coronary syndrome patients with high levels of inflammation and dislipidemia. The clinical study was designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of varespladib when co-administered with the highest dose (80 mg) of Lipitor (atorvastatin). The clinical study randomized all patients to a minimum of 24 weeks of treatment with either 500 mg once-daily of varespladib or placebo in combination with 80 mg Lipitor (atorvastatin) and physician-directed standard of care. Patients were eligible for enrollment if they had a diagnosis of UA, NSTEMI or STEMI. In addition, they must have had one of the following risk factors: diabetes, body mass index (BMI) > 25 kg/m2, CRP > 2 mg/L (NSTEMI/STEMI) or CRP > 3 mg/L (UA) and presence of three (pre-defined) characteristics of metabolic syndrome. Subjects must have been randomized within < 96 hours of hospital admission for the index event, or, if already hospitalized, within < 96 hours of index event diagnosis. Any percutaneous revascularization was required to occur prior to randomization. In addition, because we wanted to assess the effects of varespladib with the highest available dose of Lipitor (atorvastatin), patients were not allowed to use any other lipid-lowering therapies during the clinical study. Follow-up visits for evaluation occurred post-randomization at weeks two, four, eight, 12, 16, 20, 24 and then monthly thereafter until clinical study completion. All enrolled subjects remained on treatment until all subjects had been treated for a minimum of 24 weeks or until the occurrence of MACE. Patients randomized into the FRANCIS study had baseline characteristics such as LDL-C indexed-event risk factors and demographics similar to other studies of this type. All patients who completed the clinical study received a final evaluation. The primary efficacy endpoint evaluated the change in LDL-C after 500 patients completed eight weeks of treatment. LDL-C is the most widely recognized surrogate for predicting cardiovascular risk where percentage reductions in LDL-C have been highly correlated with reductions in future cardiovascular risk. Secondary endpoints included: • changes in established markers of inflammation such as sPLA2, CRP and IL-6; and • the occurrence of secondary MACE (for purposes of this clinical study, all-cause mortality, non-fatal myocardial infarction, documented UA requiring urgent hospitalization, revascularization occurring > 60 days post the index event or non-fatal stroke). Results of the primary endpoint demonstrated a statistically significant incremental LDL-C reduction of 5.7% (p = 0.0023) in varespladib treated patients versus those treated with 80 mg Lipitor (atorvastatin) alone after eight weeks of therapy. A p-value is a probability with a value ranging from 0 to 1, which indicates the likelihood that a clinical study is different between treatment and control groups. P-values below 0.05 are typically referred to as 12 Table of Contents statistically significant. A statistically significant difference was observed in LDL-C reduction from baseline as early as two weeks after treatment. The treatment effect was maintained throughout the observation period. Secondary endpoints measured effects of varespladib on sPLA2, CRP and IL-6 levels, which are well-established markers of inflammation. While the FRANCIS study was not designed to demonstrate statistically significant changes in CRP and IL-6, the results were consistent with previous studies, which demonstrated improvement across these biomarkers and achieved statistical significance at some time points. sPLA2 concentration was statistically significantly reduced from the earliest time point of two weeks through the 16-week time point (p < 0.0001) as compared to high-dose statin (80 mg Lipitor (atorvastatin)) therapy alone. While our first sPLA2 measurement in this clinical study occurred at two weeks, data from previous clinical studies utilizing varespladib or A-001 demonstrated reductions in sPLA2 as early as two days following treatment. In addition, treatment-related reductions in CRP and IL-6 levels were also greater in varespladib treated patients compared to those treated with placebo at all time points in the clinical study. The percent decrease in CRP at week two was nearly two-fold greater among varespladib and 80 mg Lipitor (atorvastatin) treated patients than those treated with placebo and 80 mg Lipitor (atorvastatin) alone (-39% versus -20%, p = 0.183), and at week 16, the difference between treatment groups was statistically significant (-82% versus -73%, p = 0.0067). At weeks two, four, eight and 16, varespladib treated patients had numerically reduced levels of CRP versus patients treated with placebo. The percent decrease in IL-6 in patients on varespladib at week two was more than three times the reduction in IL-6 in patients on placebo (-18% versus -5.1%, p = 0.18). Treatment with varespladib resulted in more subjects with LDL-C levels lower than 70 mg/dL and lower than 50 mg/dL than those on placebo (80 mg Lipitor (atorvastatin) and physician-directed standard of care) alone at eight, 16 and 24 weeks of treatment. As discussed above, the NCEP ATP III guidelines have established an LDL-C of 70 mg/dL as an optional target for very high-risk patients. As indicated in the table below, the data suggests varespladib treatment helps patients achieve their LDL-C target levels more quickly and maintain them longer than with high-dose statin (80 mg Lipitor (atorvastatin)) therapy alone. Finally, given the importance of reducing inflammation as well as LDL-C following an acute coronary syndrome event, we examined the proportion of patients in the clinical study that were able to achieve both LDL-C levels less than 70 mg/dL and CRP levels below 1 mg/L. Significantly more patients at week four and week 16 (p = 0.02 and p = 0.01) reached this combined target when treated with varespladib and 80 mg Lipitor (atorvastatin) than with placebo and 80 mg Lipitor (atorvastatin) alone. (The actual proportion of subjects in the varespladib group was 25% and 16% in the placebo group). Additionally, in the PROVE-IT study a comparable proportion (16%) of patients treated with 80 mg Lipitor (atorvastatin) achieved these goals. We also conducted an exploratory analysis of MACE in the clinical study. At 16 weeks, there were 14 (4.2%) MACE in the varespladib treated group as compared to 19 (6.1%) in the placebo group. At the completion of the clinical study, all patients had received at least six months of therapy and there were 23 (7.4%) MACE in the varespladib treated group as compared to 24 (7.7%) MACE in the placebo group. While the MACE analysis was not designed to demonstrate any statistical differences between the two treatment groups, we believe that the results are encouraging and has helped us to design our VISTA-16 study. Overall, varespladib was generally well-tolerated in this clinical study and no imbalance was seen in dropouts due to drug effects. After completing patient treatment, overall exposure to varespladib was a mean of 30 weeks and median of 34 weeks. In total, 485 total patients completed six months of treatment, with 167 subjects completing 40 weeks and 70 completing 44 weeks. There was no imbalance of overall adverse events between the treatment arms. During the clinical study, at week four and week eight, occasional mild and transient elevations in liver enzymes, defined as elevations three times the upper limit of normal, were seen among more patients taking varespladib, but the frequency and magnitude of the elevations were not meaningfully different between the active and control groups at the end of the clinical study. The frequency of the elevations was also similar to that reported for Lipitor (atorvastatin) and other currently approved lipid-lowering agents. Furthermore, there were no effects on blood pressure or the QT interval, an electro-cardiographic safety endpoint. 13 Table of Contents Summary data from FRANCIS was presented at the American College of Cardiology meeting in 2010 and the detailed results from the study were published in the Journal of the American College of Cardiology in September 2010. Phase 2 Stable Coronary Artery Disease Study — PLASMA (Phospholipase Levels and Serological Markers of Atherosclerosis): Varespladib Twice-Daily Versus Placebo Our Phase 2 PLASMA study was designed to confirm the safety and effect of varespladib on sPLA2 concentration, other inflammatory biomarkers and lipids in patients with stable CAD. In October 2007, we completed a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study evaluating four doses of varespladib administered twice-daily versus placebo among 396 patients with stable CAD from 38 centers in two countries. The clinical study enrolled patients more than 12 weeks after a myocardial infarction or six weeks after an episode of UA. The varespladib doses tested were 50 mg, 100 mg, 250 mg and 500 mg administered twice per day. Following randomization, patients were treated for eight weeks and safety and efficacy evaluations were conducted at weeks two, four and eight. Physician-directed standard of care therapies were permitted during the clinical study, including 259 patients who were on background statin therapy. The primary endpoint of the clinical study was the change in sPLA2 concentration from baseline to week eight in varespladib, across all doses, versus placebo patients. Secondary endpoints in the clinical study included the change in lipids, including LDL-C, lipoprotein subclasses and certain inflammatory biomarkers, from baseline to each of weeks two, four and eight. Our Phase 2 PLASMA results were selected for a late-breaking presentation at the American Cardiology Conference and published in the Lancet journal in February 2009. Results from the clinical study demonstrated that treatment with varespladib led to statistically significant reductions in sPLA2, LDL-C and various plaque-building and pro-inflammatory forms of LDL-C. In patients receiving varespladib, there were incremental reductions in CRP versus placebo (-55.6% versus -24.8%, p = 0.47) from baseline to eight weeks. Among all patients treated with varespladib, median sPLA2 concentration decreased by 86.7% from baseline to week eight, as compared to 4.8% in the placebo group (p < 0.0001). Median sPLA2 concentration decreased among the varespladib groups in a dose-dependent manner. At week eight, across all dosage groups, LDL-C was reduced by 9.7% versus placebo (p = 0.0035). In a subgroup of patients taking statins with LDL-C > 70 mg/dL, LDL-C was reduced by 12.0% (p = 0.0065) versus placebo at the eight week time point. Notably, the reductions in LDL-C appear to be driven primarily by a shift in the distribution of LDL-C particles with fewer pro-atherogenic, pro-inflammatory small LDL-C particles present in the circulation. In addition, statistically significant reductions from baseline to week eight were seen in total cholesterol and non-HDL cholesterol in the overall clinical study population treated with varespladib. Varespladib was generally well-tolerated among all patients treated. In general, adverse effects were mild or moderate with no imbalance of adverse events in the varespladib groups as compared to placebo. The most common adverse effects seen in the varespladib groups were headache (6.4%) and nausea (5.4%). There were mild and transient elevations of liver function tests, defined as elevations three times the upper limit of normal, in patients taking varespladib. Phase 2 Stable Coronary Artery Disease Study — PLASMA-2 (Phospholipase Levels and Serological Markers of Atherosclerosis -2): Once-Daily of Varespladib Versus Placebo Based on data from our first PLASMA study, we initiated a second Phase 2 clinical study (PLASMA-2) to evaluate the effect of once-daily varespladib treatment on inflammatory and lipid biomarkers. In December 2007, we completed a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase 2 clinical study evaluating two doses of varespladib versus placebo amongst 138 patients with stable CAD. The clinical study, conducted in the United States, involved 13 clinical sites. Following randomization to one of two doses of varespladib or placebo, patients were treated for eight weeks with safety and efficacy evaluations at weeks two, four and eight. Physician-directed standard of care therapies were permitted during the clinical study, including 123 patients (89.1%) who were on background statin therapy. 14 Table of Contents The primary endpoint of the clinical study was a comparison between once-daily doses of varespladib and placebo in changes in sPLA2 concentration at week eight. Secondary endpoints in the clinical study included measurements of lipids including LDL-C and certain other inflammatory biomarkers from baseline to each of weeks two, four and eight. Results of the primary endpoint, sPLA2, were statistically significant and consistent with those generated from the first PLASMA study described above. Patients on varespladib demonstrated a 77.8% reduction in sPLA2 concentration as compared to an increase of 8.3% in placebo treated patients (p < 0.0001). Pharmacokinetic data indicated that once-daily dosing with varespladib would be sufficient to achieve over 90% inhibition of sPLA2 mass and activity over a 24-hour period. The anti-inflammatory, lipid-lowering and lipid-modulating effects of varespladib treatment were consistent with those seen in the first PLASMA study: LDL-C was decreased by 8.3% compared to 0.7% in placebo (p = 0.014). Due to the small size of this clinical study and the low baseline inflammation present in these patients, no meaningful changes with CRP could be detected between the active and control groups. As was observed in the first clinical study, there were statistically significant reductions from baseline to week eight in total cholesterol and non-HDL cholesterol in the overall clinical study population treated with varespladib. The adverse effect profile for varespladib was consistent with earlier studies and there was no imbalance of adverse events among the varespladib groups and placebo. Varespladib was generally well-tolerated. The most common effects seen in the varespladib groups were diarrhea (6.7%), nausea (5.6%), any increase in alanine aminotransferase (5.6%), which is an enzyme that indicates liver cell injury, and any increase in aspartate aminotransferase (5.6%), which is another enzyme that indicates liver cell injury. However, mild and transient elevations of these liver enzymes, defined as elevations three times the upper limit of normal, were infrequent in patients taking varespladib. Placebo-corrected Percent Decrease from Baseline to Week Eight in Biomarkers LDL Total Non-HDL Oxidized sPLA2 Cholesterol Cholesterol Cholesterol LDL-C PLASMA 81.9 % 9.7 % 4.9 % 7.2 % 5.4 % (All doses varespladib) (p < 0.0001 ) (p = 0.0035 ) (p = 0.0069 ) (p = 0.0009 ) (p = 0.0065 ) PLASMA-2 86.1 % 13.9 % 9.2 % 14.2 % 7.3 % (500 mg varespladib)* (p < 0.0001 ) (p = 0.0007 ) (p = 0.0006 ) (p = 0.0001 ) (pNS )(†) * Dose selected for Phase 3 † Probability not significant Investigator-Sponsored Phase 2 Percutaneous Intervention Study — SPIDER-PCI (sPLA2) Inhibition to Decrease Enzyme Release After PCI): Varespladib Once-Daily Versus Placebo for up to 10 Days. In May 2007, Dr. Vladimir Dzavik at University Health Network Hospital in Toronto, Ontario, Canada initiated an investigator sponsored study with varespladib in patients undergoing a percutaneous intervention, or PCI. The primary endpoint of this study was to determine if inhibition of sPLA2 with varespladib will result in a decrease in peri-PCI myocardial necrosis, or heart muscle damage, as measured by elevations of myocardial enzyme markers creatine kinase-MB, or CK-MB, or troponin I. The study was to enroll a maximum of 164 patients who were scheduled to undergo PCI. Elevated levels of troponin I following PCI are associated with an increase in in-hospital complications and, in one study, were an independent predictor of major cardiac events. After PCI, circulating levels of sPLA2 increase and patients with higher levels have an increased risk of events after a two-year follow-up. This study explores the notion that sPLA2 inhibition may reduce myocardial damage after PCI and improve patient outcomes. As of August 2009, enrollment and dosing in the SPIDER-PCI investigator study were completed with 144 patients evaluated for purposes of assessing the primary endpoint. On December 11, 2009, we received a statistical analysis of the patient evaluations, which showed that the primary endpoint of the study, a reduction in the elevation of CK-MB or troponin I above the upper limit of normal at six to eight hours or 18 to 24 hours, was not met (varespladib patients 57% versus placebo patients 51%, p = 0.55). However, the results showed statistically significant reductions of sPLA2 as early as 18 hours post-PCI procedure, which persisted throughout the five days of 15 Table of Contents dosing (-93.0%, p < 0.001). Consistent with results from other clinical studies with varespladib, there were numerical reductions in CRP from baseline versus placebo at three to five days (-82.1%, p = 0.23). Previous Experience at Eli Lilly and Shionogi & Co., Ltd. Eli Lilly and Shionogi & Co., Ltd. previously conducted a series of clinical studies evaluating varespladib and A-001 in various inflammatory conditions. In total, at least 17 Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical studies evaluated varespladib and A-001 as a treatment in sepsis, rheumatoid arthritis, asthma and ulcerative colitis, an inflammatory bowel disease. Results from these studies provide a large body of safety data for varespladib and A-001 with more than 1,000 healthy volunteers and subjects receiving treatment. Throughout these studies, varespladib was generally well-tolerated. Non-Clinical Studies with Varespladib and A-001 Approximately 150 preclinical pharmacology and toxicology studies have been completed with varespladib and A-001, including two-year rat and mouse carcinogenicity studies, one-year primate study and three-month rat study in combination with Lipitor (atorvastatin). A-623 A-623 is a peptibody antagonist of the BAFF cytokine that is initially being developed as a treatment for lupus. BLyS, also known as B-cell activating factor, or BAFF, is a tumor necrosis family member and is critical to the development, maintenance and survival of B-cells. It is primarily expressed by macrophages, monocytes and dendritic cells and interacts with three different receptors on B-cells including BAFF receptor, or BAFF-R, B-cell maturation, or BCMA, and transmembrane activator and cyclophilin ligand interactor, or TACI. The BAFF-R receptor is expressed primarily on peripheral B-cells. Two randomized, dose-ranging, placebo-controlled Phase 1 clinical studies for A-623 in 104 lupus patients have already been completed. Results from these studies demonstrated A-623 generated anti-BAFF activity and showed statistically significant reductions in B-cells of 50-70% (p < 0.001) in lupus patients across multiple subcutaneous and intravenous formulations. After successfully reactivating our Investigational New Drug Application, or IND, we initiated a Phase 2b clinical study with A-623 for the treatment of lupus in July 2010 called PEARL-SC. We may also study A-623 in other B-cell mediated autoimmune diseases such as Sjögren’s Syndrome or orphan indications such as myasthenia gravis and pemphigus. We are actively pursuing a partnership with major pharmaceutical companies to develop and commercialize A-623. We intend to advance the development of our BAFF targeting molecule, A-623, a selective peptibody, to exploit its broad clinical utility in autoimmune diseases. A-623, as a peptibody directed against BAFF, was developed as an alternative to antibodies and is produced in Escherichia coli bacterial culture versus antibodies that are produced in mammalian cell culture. In addition, A-623 offers a number of potential differentiations over other anti-BAFF compounds, as well as other novel B-cell directed therapies, including: • convenient, at-home, patient-administered subcutaneous dosing with a range of dosing frequencies including monthly and weekly; • ability to inhibit the activity of both membrane-bound and soluble BAFF, which may confer differentiating pharmacodynamic characteristics; • non-glycosylated protein that is produced in a bacterial fermentation manufacturing process, which may reduce the potential to be immunogenic and may provide manufacturing benefits and lower cost of goods; and • multiple binding domains achieve highest reported affinity for inhibition of BAFF. 16 Table of Contents Market Opportunity Lupus is an autoimmune disorder that involves inflammation that causes swelling, pain and tissue damage throughout the body. Lupus can affect any part of the body, but especially the skin, heart, brain, lungs, joints and the kidneys. The course of the disease is unpredictable, with periods of illness, called flares alternating with remission. The Lupus Foundation estimates that approximately 1.5 million people in the United States and five million worldwide suffer from lupus. Although lupus may affect people of either sex, women are 10 times more likely to suffer from the disease than men, according to the Lupus Foundation. Patients with active lupus may have a broad range of symptoms related to the inflammation. Inflammation of the brain may cause seizures and other neurologic abnormalities. Inflammation of the heart may cause heart failure or sudden death. Lung inflammation causes shortness of breath. Lupus may also cause swollen joints and severe rash. In addition, LN may lead to requiring kidney dialysis or transplantation. Although the cause of lupus is still not completely understood, B-cell activation and autoantibody production are known to be central to the process. Evidence has emerged that over-expression of BAFF plays an important role in this disease process. In preclinical studies, transgenic mice created to over-express BAFF begin to exhibit symptoms similar to lupus. In addition, treatment of these same mice with BAFF antagonists appears to ameliorate the disease. PEARL-SC Phase 2b Clinical Study in Patients with Lupus Based on positive results among 104 patients in our Phase 1a and 1b clinical studies, we initiated a Phase 2b clinical study in lupus patients called PEARL-SC. PEARL-SC is a randomized, placebo-controlled, phase 2b clinical study which may enroll up to 600 patients in approximately 90 centers worldwide. Subjects will be randomized into three active subcutaneous treatment arms and one placebo treatment arm for a minimum of 24 weeks. The primary endpoint of the PEARL-SC study will be clinical improvement at 24 weeks in responder rates of a composite systemic lupus erythematosus responder index, or SRI, in the pooled treatment arms versus placebo. The primary SRI endpoint is a composite score based upon changes in SELENA and SLEDAI disease activity scale, Physician’s Global Assessment scores and British Isles Lupus Assessment Group scores, which are clinical standards for the measurement of disease severity in lupus patients. Secondary endpoints will include safety, improvement in other clinical assessment scores, clinical response in patients with various baseline disease severities, resolution of fatigue, steroid utilization and time to flare. An interim biomarker analysis to establish the appropriate drug effect on total B-cells is included early in the study. Initially we intend to randomize only 540 patients. This total number of patients will potentially allow us to detect a treatment effect of 14% with a p-value of 0.05 between the pooled active arms and the placebo arm. In November 2010, we placed a voluntary hold on the PEARL-SC study due to problems found with vials. Patient enrollment in the study was temporarily suspended and dosing was discontinued in patients who were enrolled in the study while we conducted an analysis of the problem. We resolved the issues found with the vials in December 2010. After analysis, simulation and consultation with industry experts, we determined that shipping on dry ice was the root cause of the issue. Shipping logistics were modified and we reinitiated enrollment in PEARL-SC and dosing in January 2011. We have received no reports of patient-related side effects or problems with drug administration that could be attributed to the vial problem. Future Development of A-623 A-623 Manufacturing Strategy In May 2010, we successfully completed a manufacturing campaign for a high concentration A-623 injection formulation for subcutaneous administration. Manufacturing was conducted per current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, and the product was released to clinical sites in July 2010. In August 2010, we manufactured a second batch of vials of the high-concentration A-623 injection formulation from 34 liters of Amgen manufactured bulk drug substance, which was subsequently released for clinical use. We believe we now have sufficient clinical material, both placebo and A-623, to dose up to 540 patients for a minimum of six months in the PEARL-SC study. In December 2010, we announced the selection of a CMO for our larger scale GMP manufacturing, the Merck Biomanufacturing Network (recently acquired by Fujifilm), and began the technical transfer of the full 17 Table of Contents manufacturing of GMP bulk product for eventual pivotal clinical studies and an optional expansion and/or extension of the PEARL-SC study. The following chart outlines the basic manufacturing steps required for the production of A-623. A-623 Regulatory Strategy In July 2010, we received clearance from the FDA to begin recruitment of lupus patients into the PEARL-SC clinical study. The study protocol allows for enrollment of up to 600 patients treated for a maximum of 12 months. Patients enrolled in this study will be randomized into three active treatment arms and one placebo arm. Subsequent to this clearance, the FDA requested additional information regarding characterization and qualification of the manufactured vials of A-623. In addition, the FDA requested minor changes to aspects of the PEARL-SC study including collection of ECG testing at the end of dosing and a recommendation for a corticosteroid tapering strategy. Neither of these changes are considered material to the conduct of the PEARL-SC study. The FDA also recommended we submit to the IND analytical and comparability data from our recently completed manufacturing lot of A-623 vials and a comparability proposal for purposes of soliciting their input prior to implementation. We submitted a response to the FDA in October 2010. It is our intent to discuss with the FDA comparability proposals which will propose the method by which future batches of material manufactured by our CMO would meet the FDA’s standards for equivalence. We also intend to continuously submit results of comparability testing from all of our manufacturing campaigns to the FDA. If these batches meet specification and the FDA agrees A-623 product manufactured by our CMO meets comparability requirements, we believe these batches could be used to further extend and expand the PEARL-SC study and/or initiate identical Phase 3 clinical studies for purposes of registration. Historical Clinical Studies Prior to our in-licensing of A-623, Amgen completed two Phase 1 clinical studies of A-623 in lupus patients to evaluate the safety and pharmacokinetics of single and multiple doses of the drug using intravenous and subcutaneous formulations. Prior to conducting Phase 1 clinical studies in lupus patients, Amgen conducted a pre-Phase 1 clinical study in lupus patients. In Amgen’s pre-Phase 1 clinical study, individual B-cell subsets, such as mature naïve B-cells, activated B-cells and memory B-cells, all therapeutic targets for A-623, were quantified in order to characterize the specific B-cell subset abnormalities associated with lupus. The randomized, placebo-controlled, dose-escalation Phase 1a clinical study evaluated A-623 as a single intravenous or subcutaneous therapy among 56 lupus patients. Intravenous doses included 1, 3 and 6 mg/kg, and subcutaneous doses included 0.1, 0.3, 1 and 3 mg/kg. The primary endpoint was to assess the safety and tolerability of single dose administrations of A-623. Secondary endpoints were designed to assess the plasma pharmacokinetic profile and immunogenicity of A-623. Results from this clinical study indicated the safety and tolerability of A-623 administered as single dose of intravenous or subcutaneous was comparable to placebo. Single doses of A-623 exhibited linear pharmacokinetics after both intravenous and subcutaneous administration. There were comparable adverse events between the A-623 and placebo groups with no deaths reported. In addition, no neutralization antibodies were seen across all doses. The most common adverse events were nausea (15%), headache (10%), upper respiratory tract infection (10%) and diarrhea (8%). A-623 was evaluated in a randomized, placebo-controlled, multi-dose Phase 1b clinical study as an intravenous or subcutaneous therapy among 63 lupus patients. The intravenous dose was 6 mg/kg, and subcutaneous doses included 0.3, 1 and 3 mg/kg. Patients received their doses of A-623 or placebo once-weekly for four weeks. The primary endpoint was to assess the safety and tolerability of multiple dose administrations of A-623. Secondary endpoints were designed to assess the plasma pharmacokinetic profile and immunogenicity of A-623 after multiple doses. Results showed that multiple doses of A-623 exhibited dose-proportional pharmacokinetics after both intravenous and subcutaneous administration. Further, results demonstrated a dose-dependent decrease in total B-cells as early as 15 days of treatment, and total B-cell reduction (up to approximately 60-70% of baseline) reached its nadir after about 160 days of therapy. By six months after treatment, the B-cell populations had returned to baseline levels. 18 Table of Contents An experimental analysis was also conducted to assess B-cell subsets in patients following multiple doses. Results demonstrated that A-623 selectively modulates certain B-cell subsets and induced trends toward normalizing the B-cell abnormalities that were observed in lupus patients in the pre-Phase 1 clinical study. Results indicated that the tolerability of A-623 administered as multiple doses of intravenous or subcutaneous administration was generally comparable to placebo. There were no deaths reported between the A-623 and placebo groups. Few neutralization antibodies were seen, and all resolved in subsequent visits. Based on these results and published data from competitor studies, we initiated a Phase 2b clinical study evaluating A-623 in lupus patients during the second half of 2010. A-001 A-001 is an intravenously administered, potent, broad-spectrum inhibitor of sPLA2, including forms IIa, V and X. A-001 will be evaluated in a Phase 2 clinical study for the prevention of acute chest syndrome associated with sickle cell disease in at-risk patients. Substantial scientific evidence implicates sPLA2 activity in the development of acute chest syndrome associated with sickle cell disease, as well as other forms of acute lung injury. The FDA granted orphan drug and fast-track designation for A-001 for the prevention of acute chest syndrome in at-risk patients. We currently retain all worldwide product rights, except in Japan where Shionogi & Co., Ltd. retains rights. We also licensed A-001 from Eli Lilly and Shionogi & Co., Ltd. in July 2006. sPLA2 levels increase in advance of acute chest syndrome episodes and can be used alongside the presence of fever to strongly predict an impending episode. There is a strong correlation between levels of CRP and sPLA2 in this patient population. Patients with acute chest syndrome associated with sickle cell disease can exhibit levels of sPLA2 that can be 100 times greater than normal. We believe that early intervention with A-001 to inhibit sPLA2 activity may offer a novel preventative therapy to improve outcome among sickle cell disease patients presenting with a high risk of acute chest syndrome. Market Opportunity Sickle cell disease is a lifelong genetic, blood disorder typically diagnosed during early childhood. According to the Sickle Cell Information Center, in the United States, over 70,000 people currently suffer from the disease and approximately 1,000 children are born with the disease annually. According to Medtech Insight, in Europe, there are over 200,000 people suffering from the disease, and the numbers increase dramatically in Africa, where, according to the WHO, 200,000 children alone are born with sickle cell disease each year. Life expectancy for these patients is significantly shortened, with most expected to live only until their mid-40s. The disease is characterized by structurally altered red blood cells that assume an abnormal shape, similar to a sickle, and produce an altered form of hemoglobin. These altered red blood cells have a shortened life-cycle, become stiff and have difficulty passing through the body’s small blood vessels. At times, these abnormal cells may obstruct or block blood flow through small blood vessels, leading to significant damage in tissue and bone. This damage is more 19 Table of Contents commonly labeled as VOC. During VOC, blockage occurs within the circulation of the long bones, causing microscopic bone damage. Fragments of bone or bone fat may break free and embolize to the lungs, causing lung injury. VOC is a common trigger for the more serious complication of acute chest syndrome associated with sickle cell disease. Acute chest syndrome exhibits symptoms and characteristics similar to acute lung injury. There are an estimated 10,000 episodes of acute chest syndrome associated with sickle cell disease per year in the United States. It represents the most common cause of death in sickle cell patients and the second most common cause of hospitalization among such patients. A majority of sickle cell patients will experience at least one episode of acute chest syndrome and repeated episodes can result in progressive lung disease. The disorder is most common in the two- to four- year age group and gradually declines in incidence with age. There are no marketed therapies targeting acute chest syndrome associated with sickle cell disease. The most common treatment regimen includes heavy doses of corticosteroids, opiates, transfusion and antibiotics while the patient suffers through the attack. In addition, hydroxyurea, a chemotherapy, was found to reduce the frequency of VOC and the need for blood transfusions in adult patients with sickle cell disease. However, all of these therapeutics are associated with significant adverse effects while only offering limited patient benefit. Phase 2B Clinical Study: Prevention of Acute Chest Syndrome in Patients with Sickle Cell Disease Our planned multinational, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase 3 clinical study will enroll up to 200 patients with sickle cell disease who are at an elevated risk of developing acute chest syndrome as a result of fever, VOC and CRP 5.0 mg/l ³ at the time of hospitalization. Patients will be randomized to receive a continuous infusion of A-001 or placebo for 48 hours after randomization. The primary endpoint of this study will be freedom from acute chest syndrome as determined by physician assessment and independent review of chest X-rays. This study represents a unique treatment approach for a small, orphan designated indication. As a result the appropriateness of the design and endpoints of this study for purposes of registration will only be known at the conclusion of the study and upon submission to the FDA. Historical Clinical Studies Phase 2 Acute Chest Syndrome in Hospitalized Patients with Sickle Cell Disease Study — Investigation of the Modulation of Phospholipase in Acute Chest Syndrome, or IMPACTS. In January 2007, we initiated a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase 2 clinical study to assess the safety and tolerability of escalating doses of A-001 therapy when administered as a 48-hour continuous infusion. The clinical study was designed to enroll up to 75 patients across approximately 30 sites in the United States. This clinical study enrolls hospitalized sickle cell disease patients at risk for acute chest syndrome on the basis of VOC, 20 Table of Contents fever and serum sPLA2 concentration level greater than 50 mg/mL. The primary endpoint for the clinical study was designed to assess safety and tolerability. Secondary endpoints included the absence of acute chest syndrome, suppression of sPLA2, reduced need for blood transfusions and assessment of pharmacokinetics. The first group of patients was randomized 2:1 to receive low dose A-001 or placebo as a 48-hour continuous infusion. A pre-specified interim analysis was conducted in February 2009 after the 30th patient completed treatment to examine safety and adjust dosing schedules. The interim data was balanced between two dosing arms of 30 55 µg/kg/hr (n = 11) and 55 µg/kg/hr (n = 6). Interim results indicated serum levels of A-001 when dosed at 55 µig/kg/hr reduced sPLA2 activity levels by more than 80% from baseline within 48 hours. Furthermore, the prevention of acute chest syndrome associated with sickle cell disease appeared to be related to the level of sPLA2 activity. The DSMB recommended the clinical study continue based on safety and tolerability. In addition, given the safety profile, the DSMB approved the addition of a higher dose group of 110 µg/kg/hr via continuous infusion during the second half of the clinical study. We believe that the data suggests A-001 can suppress sPLA2 at levels that may prevent the complication of acute chest syndrome associated with sickle cell disease. Reductions of sPLA2 activity from baseline and incidence of acute chest syndrome (including placebo patients and patients receiving A-001). Exploratory analysis to determine correlation between degree of sPLA2 suppression and incidence of acute chest syndrome. 48-Hour sPLA2 Activity as a Percentage of Baseline 0.0% < 25.0% ³ 25% ³ 50% ³ 50% ³ 75% ³ 75% Number of Subjects 7 7 3 12 Number of Subjects Developing Acute Chest Syndrome (%) 0 (0) 2 (28) 1 (33) 4 (25) Our Strategy Our objective is to develop and commercialize our product candidates to treat serious diseases associated with inflammation, including cardiovascular and autoimmune diseases. To achieve these objectives, we intend to initially focus on: Advancing Varespladib Through Phase 3. Inflammatory processes and lipid abnormalities are central to the onset of acute coronary syndrome and the development of CAD. Varespladib operates through a novel mechanism of action to offer both targeted anti-inflammatory activity and incremental lipid reductions, including LDL-C, when used in combination with statins. Despite the benefits of statin therapy, many acute coronary syndrome patients still remain at substantial risk of a coronary event, suggesting additional biological mechanisms may be relevant, including inflammation. We believe that combination therapy with varespladib and statins will provide acute coronary syndrome patients with a unique, short-term therapeutic option unavailable with existing agents today. In addition, we believe that an opportunity exists in the future to evaluate varespladib in chronic indications such as CAD. Advancing Clinical Development of A-623. We are advancing the development of A-623 to exploit the broad potential clinical utility of BAFF antagonism. We have initiated the Phase 2b clinical study known as PEARL-SC in lupus patients. We may opportunistically enter into collaborations with third parties for development of this compound in lupus or in other B-cell mediated diseases, such as multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis or Sjögren’s Syndrome, that may benefit from BAFF antagonism, including securing corporate partners whose capabilities complement ours. Potential Development of A-00.1 In the future, if additional funds are available, we may develop A-001, an intravenous sPLA2 inhibitor for prevention of acute chest syndrome associated with sickle cell disease, because we identified that elevations in sPLA2 activity are known to precede and predict disease progression. Given that there are currently no approved drugs for the prevention of acute chest syndrome associated with sickle cell disease, we have received orphan drug designation and fast track status from the FDA for A-001. 21 Table of Contents Leveraging Our sPLA2 Expertise to Develop Products for Additional Disease Indications. We believe that we have developed a leadership position in the field of sPLA2 inhibition. Beyond our acute coronary syndrome and acute chest syndrome program, we believe that sPLA2 inhibition may have applications in other acute disease settings where early intervention may have an impact and reduce anti-inflammatory activity, such as acute lung injury. Additionally, we believe that we can apply our sPLA2 expertise to develop novel therapeutics for a number of chronic diseases. For example, sPLA2 has been shown to be involved in the development of such chronic inflammatory diseases as atherosclerosis and dermatitis. We plan to pursue these indications opportunistically and potentially in collaboration with third parties. We are also developing new and unique sPLA2 inhibitor compounds for additional therapeutic areas. A-003 is our second generation lead candidate. We plan to continue preclinical development of A-003 for an IND filing and we will continue to assess additional new compounds. Developing Commercial Strategies Designed to Maximize Our Product Candidates’ Market Potential. Our primary product candidates are focused on either the acute care setting in the hospital or highly-specialized physician segments, such as rheumatologists. We believe that we can build a small, focused sales force capable of marketing our products effectively in acute care and orphan indications such as acute coronary syndrome and acute chest syndrome associated with sickle cell disease. In other chronic indications such as CAD, we intend to seek commercial collaborations with companies that have a large, dedicated sales force focused on general practitioners and cardiologists and we plan to seek commercialization partners for products in non-specialty and international markets. Competition Our industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. Our potential competitors include large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, specialty pharmaceutical and generic drug companies, academic institutions, government agencies and research institutions. We believe that key competitive factors that will affect the development and commercial success of our product candidates are efficacy, safety and tolerability profile, reliability, convenience of dosing, price and reimbursement. Many of our potential competitors, including many of the organizations named below, have substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we do and significantly greater experience in the discovery and development of product candidates, obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of products and the commercialization of those products. Accordingly, our competitors may be more successful than we may be in obtaining FDA approval for drugs and achieving widespread market acceptance. Our competitors’ drugs may be more effective, or more effectively marketed and sold, than any drug we may commercialize and may render our product candidates obsolete or non-competitive before we can recover the expenses of developing and commercializing any of our product candidates. We anticipate that we will face intense and increasing competition as new drugs enter the market and advanced technologies become available. Finally, the development of new treatment methods for the diseases we are targeting could render our drugs non-competitive or obsolete. The sPLA2 product candidates we are currently developing, if approved, will face intense competition, either as monotherapies or in combination therapies. Although there are no sPLA2 inhibitors currently approved by the FDA, we are aware of other pharmaceutical companies, as described below that are developing product candidates in this area for separate indications. sPLA2 in Acute Coronary Syndrome Our lead product candidate, varespladib, for the short-term (16-week) treatment of acute coronary syndrome has a dual mechanism of action that we believe confers anti-inflammatory and lipid-lowering and lipid-modulating benefits. The market for cardiovascular therapeutics and acute coronary syndrome, specifically, is especially large and competitive. A wide range of medications are typically administered to patients suffering an acute coronary syndrome event in order to reduce ischemia and thrombosis and improve blood flow. We expect that varespladib for the treatment of acute coronary syndrome patients, if approved, may compete with the following anti-inflammatory therapeutics in development. 22 Table of Contents Compound Stage Company Indications Notes Darapladib Phase 3 GlaxoSmithKline plc Acute coronary syndrome • Lp-PLA2 Inhibitor • Collaboration with Human Genome Sciences, Inc. • Various back-up compounds VIA-2291 Phase 2 Via Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Acute coronary syndrome or atherosclerosis • 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor • Discussions on-going with FDA E-5555 Phase 2 Eisai Inc. Acute coronary syndrome or atherosclerosis • 600 patient study completed October 2009 • Thrombin receptor antagonist • Evaluating biomarkers and events VT-111(a) Phase 2b Viron Acute coronary syndrome • SERPINS family glycoprotein • Inhibits monocyte migration during vascular inflammation • Phase 2a completed Other Agents Under Development Additionally, we are aware of other products in development that are being tested for anti-inflammatory benefits in patients with acute coronary syndrome such as Via Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and its 5-lipoxygenase, or 5-LO, inhibitor, which has been evaluated in Phase 2 clinical studies, GlaxoSmithKline plc and its product candidate, darapladib, which is an Lp-PLA2 inhibitor currently being evaluated in Phase 3 clinical studies. If approved, these products or others in development may compete directly with varespladib. Approved Categories of Drugs Statins — Treatment with varespladib is designed to offer anti-inflammatory benefits for acute coronary syndrome patients that are additive to treatment with statins. However, statin therapy is thought to confer some element of anti-inflammatory benefit as monotherapy. In certain circumstances, it is possible the anti-inflammatory benefits of statin monotherapy with products such as Lipitor (atorvastatin), which is marketed by Pfizer Inc., Crestor (rosuvastatin), which is marketed by AstraZeneca UK Limited and Zocor (simvastatin), which is marketed by Merck & Co., Inc. may be viewed as competitive to that offered by varespladib. Other Lipid-Lowering Therapies — Increasingly, additional lipid-lowering agents are being administered either in combination with statins or as monotherapy to help acute coronary syndrome patients reduce levels of LDL-C. Varespladib has demonstrated LDL-C lowering benefits when tested as monotherapy and in combination with statin therapy. To the extent acute coronary syndrome patients need additional LDL-C lowering, varespladib may compete for use with other approved agents such as Vytorin, which is a fixed dose combination therapy combining ezetimibe and Zocor, Tricor (fenofibrate tablets) and Niaspan (niacin), both of which are marketed by Abbott Laboratories, Zetia (ezetimibe) and fish oils (omega-3). Lupus Human Genome Sciences, Inc.’s and partner GlaxoSmithKline plc’s Benlysta is currently under review with the FDA and, if approved, would be the first novel therapy in the last fifty years. Current therapies such as non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, or NSAIDs, corticosteroids and immunosuppressants generally act to hold back broadly the proliferation of many types of cells, including white blood cells. However, use of these agents is associated with significant adverse events and broad immune suppression. 23 Table of Contents Several new biological agents under development have targeted BAFF (or BLyS) and other B-cell related pathways for the treatment of lupus. These product candidates include Benlysta (belimumab) from Human Genome Sciences, Inc., LY2127399 from Eli Lilly and Company, atacicept, or TACI-Ig, from ZymoGenetics Inc. and epratuzumab from Immunomedics, Inc., as well as others acting via non B-cell mechanisms, such as Lupuzor from Cephalon. We believe that A-623 may offer potential differentiation from these agents, including demonstrated dosing flexibility with both subcutaneous and intravenous delivery; selective modulation and reduction of relevant B-cell types in lupus patients; the ability to inhibit the activity of both membrane-bound and soluble BAFF; its smaller size as compared to a full antibody, which may confer differentiating pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic characteristics; and distinct patent protection based on a novel and proprietary technology developed and commercialized by Amgen, which may also confer potential manufacturing advantages with lower cost of goods based on a bacterial fermentation manufacturing process. Compound Stage Company Indications Notes Benlysta (intravenous and subcutaneous) BLA Submission (PDUFA in March 2011) Human Genome Sciences, Inc./ GlaxoSmithKline plc Lupus • Monoclonal antibody against BAFF, an agent that demonstrated partial reduction in B-cells • Inhibits soluble BAFF only • Positive results reported in two Phase 3 clinical studies LY2127399 (subcutaneous) Phase 3 Eli Lilly and Company Lupus, Rheumatoid Arthritis, Multiple Myelomas • Monoclonal antibody against BAFF inhibits soluble and membrane-bound BAFF • Recent positive results in RA study Atacicept (intravenous) Phase 3 ZymoGenetics Inc./Merck Serono S.A. Lupus • Fusion protein against BAFF and APRIL; Phase 3 clinical study in lupus on-going Epratuzumab (intravenous) Phase 3 Immunomedics, Inc./UCB S.A. Lupus, Non-Hodgkin’s Lymphoma • Humanized antibody against CD-22, an agent that specifically targets B-cells and leads to partial depletion of peripheral B-cells • Initiating Phase 3 clinical study Lupuzor (subcutaneous) Phase 3 Cephalon, Inc./ ImmuPharma PLC Lupus • Modulates CD 4 T cells • Positive Phase 2b clinical study results reported sPLA2 for Acute Chest Syndrome Associated with Sickle Cell Disease There are no currently approved agents for treatment or prophylaxis of acute chest syndrome associated with sickle cell disease. Droxia (hydroxyurea) is approved for prevention of VOC in sickle cell disease and thus could reduce the pool of patients with VOC at risk for acute chest syndrome. In addition, there is evidence in the literature that blood transfusions may prevent the occurrence of acute chest syndrome associated with sickle cell disease, and a randomized clinical study is underway by the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute to explore this possibility. Intellectual Property Our policy is to pursue, maintain and defend patent rights, developed internally and licensed from third parties, to protect the technology, inventions and improvements that are commercially important to the development of our business. We also rely on trade secrets that may be important to the development of our business. Our success will depend significantly on our ability to: • obtain and maintain patent and other proprietary protection for the technology, inventions and improvements we consider important to our business; • defend our patents; • preserve the confidentiality of our trade secrets; and 24 Table of Contents • operate our business without infringing the patents and proprietary rights of third parties. Varespladib and A-001 As of the date of this report, our licensed varespladib and A-001 patent portfolio includes: • 13 U.S. patents; • One pending U.S. non-provisional patent application; • Five European, or EP, patents, each validated in one or more of Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom; • One pending EP patent application; • 20 non-EP foreign patents in Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Finland, India, Malaysia, Mexico, the Philippines, South Korea, Taiwan and Turkey; and • Three pending non-EP foreign patent applications in Brazil, Japan and Thailand. We hold exclusive worldwide licenses from Eli Lilly and Shionogi & Co., Ltd. to all of these patents and patent applications with the exception of licensing rights in Japan, which Shionogi & Co., Ltd. retains. These licenses are described below under “— Licenses.” The patents and applications described above contain claims directed to varespladib and A-001 compositions of matter and to various methods of making and using varespladib and A-001, including methods of treating various inflammatory conditions. The U.S. patents are currently scheduled to expire between 2014 and 2021. The primary U.S. composition of matter patent for varespladib and A-00l currently expires in August 2014. This patent is expected to be eligible for a Hatch-Waxman term restoration of up to five years, which could extend the expiration date to August 2019. We intend to pursue pediatric exclusivity as well, which could add an additional six months to the patent term. The primary European composition of matter patent currently expires in March 2015. This patent is expected to be eligible for a Supplementary Protection Certificate of up to five years, which could extend the expiration date to March 2020. As of the date of this report, our internally developed varespladib and A-001 patent portfolio includes: • Four pending U.S. non-provisional patent applications; • Two pending U.S. provisional patent applications; • Two pending Patent Cooperation Treaty, or PCT, patent applications; and • National phase applications in the European Patent Office, the Eurasian Patent Organization and 17 other countries (Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Israel, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, The Philippines, Singapore, South Africa, South Korea and Vietnam). We own, and therefore hold all worldwide rights in and to, these patent applications, which contain claims directed to varespladib and A-001 compositions of matter and methods of treating various cardiovascular indications. Several of the pending U.S. and non-U.S. patent applications include disclosure relating to the combination of varespladib and A-001 with various cardiovascular drugs, including statins. Pending claims in these applications are directed to both compositions of matter and methods. Any patents issuing from these applications would expire between 2028 and 2030. A-003 As of the date of this report, our licensed A-003 patent portfolio includes: • Two U.S. patents; • One licensed pending U.S. non-provisional patent application (also listed above as covering varespladib and A-001); • Five EP patents (two also listed above as covering varespladib and A-001), each validated in one or more of Albania, Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, Romania, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom; 25 Table of Contents • 15 non-EP foreign patents (six also listed above as covering varespladib and A-001) in Argentina, Australia, Canada, China, India, Mexico, South Korea and Taiwan; and • One pending non-EP foreign patent application in Brazil (also listed above as covering varespladib and A-001). We hold exclusive worldwide licenses from Eli Lilly and Shionogi & Co., Ltd. to these patents and patent applications with the exception of licensing rights in Japan, which Shionogi & Co., Ltd. retains. These licenses are described below under “— Licenses.” The patents and applications listed above contain claims directed to A-003 compositions of matter and to various methods of making and using A-003, including methods of treating various inflammatory indications. The issued U.S. patents are currently scheduled to expire between 2017 and 2018. As of the date of this report, our internally developed A-003 patent portfolio includes: • Three U.S. non-provisional patent applications (all also listed above as covering varespladib and A-001); • Two pending U.S. provisional patent applications (both also listed above as covering varespladib and A-001); • Two pending PCT patent applications (both also listed above as covering varespladib and A-001); and • National phase applications in the European Patent Office, the Eurasian Patent Organization and 17 other countries (Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Israel, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, The Philippines, Singapore, South Africa, South Korea and Vietnam). We own, and therefore hold all worldwide rights in and to, these patent applications, which contain claims directed to A-003 compositions of matter and methods of treating various cardiovascular indications. New sPLA2 Compounds As of the date of this report, our new sPLA2 compound patent portfolio includes over 30 licensed U.S. patents, one pending U.S. non-provisional patent application, three EP patents, one pending EP patent application, four non-EP foreign patents, and one pending non-EP foreign patent application not listed above as covering A-001, varespladib or A-003. We hold exclusive worldwide licenses from Eli Lilly and Shionogi & Co., Ltd. to these patents and patent applications with the exception of licensing rights in Japan, which Shionogi & Co., Ltd. retains. These licenses are described below under “— Licenses.” The patents and applications listed above contain claims directed to various sPLA2 second generation compounds, as well as methods of making and using these new sPLA2 compounds. The issued U.S. patents are currently scheduled to expire between 2013 and 2024. A-623 As of the date of this report, our A-623 patent portfolio includes: • Two U.S. patents; • One pending U.S. non-provisional patent application; • One EP patent validated in Albania, Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Monaco, the Netherlands, Portugal, Romania, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey and the United Kingdom; • Two pending EP patent applications; • Eleven non-EP foreign patents in Australia, China, Estonia, Eurasia (validated in all nine Eurasian countries), Japan, New Zealand, the Philippines, Singapore, South Korea and South Africa; and • 13 pending non-EP foreign patent applications in Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, China, the Czech Republic, Hong Kong, Hungary, Israel, Mexico, Norway, Poland, Serbia and Slovakia. We hold exclusive worldwide licenses from Amgen to all of these patents and patent applications. In addition, we hold a non-exclusive worldwide license to one pending U.S. non-provisional patent application, one EP patent, one pending EP patent application, ten non-EP foreign patents, and over 30 pending non-EP foreign patent applications relating to general peptibody compositions and formulations. The U.S. patents are currently scheduled to expire in May 2022. One of the U.S. patents is expected to be eligible for a Hatch-Waxman term restoration of up to five years, which could extend the expiration date to May 26 Table of Contents 2027. We intend to pursue pediatric exclusivity as well, which could add an additional six months to the patent term. The European patent is currently scheduled to expire May 2022. This patent is expected to be eligible for a Supplementary Protection Certificate of up to five years, which could extend the expiration date to May 2027. The U.S. patent system permits the filing of provisional and non-provisional patent applications. A non-provisional patent application is examined by the U.S. Patent Office, or USPTO, and can mature into a patent once the USPTO determines that the claimed invention meets the standards for patentability. A provisional patent application is not examined, and automatically expires 12 months after its filing date. As a result, a provisional patent application cannot mature into a patent. The requirements for filing a provisional patent application are not as strict as those for filing a non-provisional patent application. Provisional applications are often used, among other things, to establish an early filing date for a subsequent non-provisional patent application. The filing date of a non-provisional patent application is used by the USPTO to determine what information is prior art when it considers the patentability of a claimed invention. If certain requirements are satisfied, a non-provisional patent application can claim the benefit of the filing date of an earlier filed provisional patent application. As a result, the filing date accorded by the provisional patent application may remove information that otherwise could preclude the patentability of an invention. Depending upon the timing, duration and specifics of FDA approval of varespladib, A-623, A-001, A-003 or one or more new sPLA2 compounds, one or more of the U.S. patents listed above may be eligible for limited patent term restoration under the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, commonly referred to as the Hatch-Waxman Act. See “— Regulatory Matters — Patent Term Restoration and Marketing Exclusivity.” A-101 A-101 is novel compound developed to treat cardiovascular disease. As of the date of this report, our internally developed A-101 patent portfolio includes: • One pending U.S. non-provisional patent application. We own, and therefore hold all worldwide rights in and to, the patent application, which contains claims directed to A-101 compositions of matter and methods of treating various cardiovascular indications. Licenses Eli Lilly and Shionogi & Co., Ltd. In July 2006, we entered into a license agreement with Eli Lilly and Shionogi & Co., Ltd., pursuant to which we obtained an exclusive license in all countries except for Japan to certain technology and compounds relating to sPLA2 inhibitors. The licensed technology was largely developed under a research and development agreement between Eli Lilly and Shionogi & Co., Ltd., which was entered into between the parties in August 1992 and terminated in December 2004. Under the agreement, we obtained exclusive rights to (i) use licensed patent rights and know-how to identify and develop sPLA2 inhibitors, (ii) develop, make, have made, use, import, offer for sale and sell licensed compounds and pharmaceutical formulations thereof, including varespladib, A-001, A-003 and other sPLA2 inhibitors and (iii) grant sublicenses. The licensed patent rights include a specific set of previously filed U.S. and foreign patents and applications, as well as any applications filed after the execution date by Eli Lilly or Shionogi & Co., Ltd. that relate to licensed know-how. Certain patents and applications within the licensed patent rights are defined as “core patents.” Although the agreement does not allow us to sell or offer for sale licensed products in Japan, it does allow us to conduct preclinical and clinical studies in Japan in support of applications for marketing authorization outside of Japan, and to make and have made licensed products in Japan for use or sale outside of Japan. Eli Lilly and Shionogi & Co., Ltd. retain the right to use licensed products for research purposes only. Eli Lilly also retains the right to conduct studies of specific compounds in animals for research purposes, but only with our prior written approval. In addition, Shionogi & Co., Ltd. retains the non-exclusive right to make and have made licensed products for supply to us, as well as its rights to continue research, development and marketing of licensed technology in Japan. Upon entering into the license agreement, we assumed control of all prosecution and maintenance of core patents prosecuted and maintained by Eli Lilly prior to the agreement. All core patents prosecuted and maintained 27 Table of Contents by Shionogi & Co., Ltd. prior to the agreement remained under the control of Shionogi & Co., Ltd. Licensed patent rights that were not classified as core remained under the control of Eli Lilly and Shionogi & Co., Ltd. However, control of certain of these patents and applications has since been transferred to us following the decision by Eli Lilly or Shionogi & Co., Ltd. to discontinue prosecution and maintenance. Upon entering into the license agreement, we made one-time payments of cash in the amount of $250,000 and issued shares of convertible preferred stock with a total aggregate value of $2.3 million to Eli Lilly and Shionogi & Co., Ltd. We are required to make various milestone payments and to pay tiered royalty payments on net sales, which increase as a percentage as net sales increase. Both the milestone and royalty payment schedules vary depending on the specific formulation (e.g., oral versus intravenously administered). For varespladib, we are required to pay up to $32.0 million upon achievement of certain approval and post-approval sales milestones. For A-001, we are required to pay up to $3.0 million upon achievement of certain clinical development milestones and up to $25.0 million upon achievement of certain approval and post-approval sales milestones. For other product formulations that we are not currently developing, we would be required to pay up to $2.0 million upon achievement of certain clinical development milestones and up to $35.5 million upon achievement of certain approval and post-approval sales milestones. Our royalty payments vary based upon type of formulation and annual net sales, but generally range from the mid-single digits to the low double digits. Our royalty payment obligations for a particular licensed product in a particular country begin on the date of the first commercial sale of the licensed product in that country, and end upon the later of 10 years from the date of first commercial sale in that country or the first date on which a generic version of the licensed product reaches a 25% total market share in that country. The license agreement will remain in effect for the length of our royalty obligation on a product-by-product and country-by-country basis, unless we elect to terminate earlier or until termination by mutual agreement. Upon expiration of the agreement, our license will remain in effect and will convert to an irrevocable, perpetual royalty-free license. If we fail to meet our obligations under the agreement, Eli Lilly or Shionogi & Co., Ltd. can terminate the agreement, resulting in a loss of our exclusive rights to the licensed technology. Amgen In December 2007, we entered into a license agreement with Amgen, which was amended in October 2009, pursuant to which we obtained an exclusive worldwide license to certain technology and compounds relating to A-623, as well as a non-exclusive worldwide license to technology relating to certain peptibody compositions of matter and formulations. Under the agreement, we obtained exclusive rights under the licensed patents and know-how to research, develop, make, have made, use, sell, offer for sale and import pharmaceutical products containing A-623, as well as the right to grant sublicenses. The licensed patents included a specific set of previously filed U.S. and foreign patents and applications, as well as any applications filed after the execution date by Amgen and covering licensed know-how. During the period of the agreement, we are responsible for the filing, prosecution, defense and maintenance of all exclusively licensed A-623 patents and applications. Amgen retains the right to review all documents relating to said filing, prosecution, defense and maintenance, and we are required to incorporate all reasonable comments or suggestions that Amgen makes with regard to these documents. During the seven-year period after execution of the agreement, Amgen is prohibited from clinically developing or commercializing any BAFF peptibody. Similarly, we are prohibited during the term of the agreement from clinically developing or commercializing any molecule other than A-623 that modulates BAFF as the primary intended therapeutic mechanism of action. We paid a first installment fee of $3.0 million and a second installment fee of $3.0 million. In addition, we are required to make various milestone payments upon the achievement of certain development, regulatory and commercial objectives, including payment upon initiation of the first Phase 3 clinical study for any A-623 formulation. We are also required to pay up to $10.0 million upon achievement of certain pre-approval clinical development milestones and up to $23.0 million upon achievement of certain post- approval milestones. Furthermore, we are required to make tiered quarterly royalty payments on net sales, which increase as a percentage from the high single digits to the low double digits as net sales increase. Our royalty payment obligations for a particular product in a particular country begin on the date of the first commercial sale of the licensed product in that country, 28 Table of Contents and end upon the later of 10 years from the date of first commercial sale in that country or the expiration date of the last valid claim of a licensed patent that covers the manufacture, use or sale, offer to sell or import of the product. The license agreement will remain in effect until we elect to terminate, or until termination for material breach by either party or insolvency on our part. Under these terms, Amgen can terminate the agreement if we fail to meet our obligations, resulting in a loss of our exclusive rights to the licensed technology. Manufacturing and Supply We currently rely on contract manufacturers to produce drug substances and drug products required for our clinical studies under cGMP with oversight by our internal managers. We plan to continue to rely upon contract manufacturers and, potentially, collaboration partners to manufacture commercial quantities of our product candidates if and when approved for marketing by the FDA. Should a supplier or a manufacturer on which we have relied to produce a product candidate provide us with a faulty product or such product is later recalled, we would likely experience significant delays and material additional costs. Sales and Marketing Given our stage of development, we have not developed a commercial organization or distribution capabilities. We expect that we would develop these capabilities once we receive Phase 3 data in contemplation of FDA approval and the commercial launch of our product candidates. In order to commercialize any of our product candidates, we must develop these capabilities internally or through collaboration with third parties. In selected therapeutic areas where we feel that any approved products can be commercialized by a specialty sales force that calls on a limited and focused group of physicians, acute care and orphan indications such as acute coronary syndrome and acute chest syndrome associated with sickle cell disease, we may seek to commercialize these product candidates alone. In therapeutic areas that require a large sales force selling to a large and diverse prescribing population, such as chronic indications such as CAD, we currently plan to partner with third parties to commercialize our product candidates while retaining rights to co-promote our products to a select audience of high prescribing physicians in the United States, thereby supplementing or enhancing the efforts of a commercial partner. We also plan to seek commercialization partners for products in non-specialty and international markets. In North America and Western Europe, patients in the target markets for our product candidates are largely managed by medical specialists in the areas of cardiology and internal medicine. Historically, companies have experienced substantial commercial success through the deployment of specialized sales forces that can address a majority of key prescribers, particularly within the cardiovascular disease marketplace. Therefore, we expect to utilize a specialized sales force in North America for the sales and marketing of product candidates that we may successfully develop. Based upon sales models, we estimate that we could effectively promote (supplementing a commercial partner’s sales efforts) the treatment of acute coronary syndrome to 3,000 cardiologists with approximately 300 sales representatives in North America and Western Europe. If we obtain additional label indications for varespladib or A-001, we may choose to increase our sales force size to promote these new uses. Due to their concentrated and focused nature, specialty target audiences may be reached with more focused and cost-effective marketing campaigns. Outside of North America, and in situations or markets where a more favorable return may be realized through licensing commercial rights to a third party, we may license a portion or all of our commercial rights in a territory to a third party in exchange for one or more of the following: up-front payments, research funding, development funding, milestone payments and royalties on drug sales. We intend to build the commercial infrastructure necessary to bring varespladib, A-623 and A-001 to market alone or in collaboration with a co-development or co-promotion partner. In addition to a specialty sales force, sales management, internal sales support and an internal marketing group, we will need to establish capabilities to manage key accounts, such as managed care organizations, group-purchasing organizations, specialty pharmacies and government accounts. We may also choose to employ medical sales liaisons personnel to support the product. Regulatory Matters Government Regulation and Product Approval Government authorities in the United States at the federal, state and local level and other countries, extensively regulate, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacture, quality control, approval, labeling, packaging, storage, record-keeping, promotion, advertising, distribution, marketing, export and import of products 29 Table of Contents such as those we are developing. Our product candidates must be approved by the FDA through the new drug application, or NDA, process, and our biological product candidate, A-623, must be approved by the FDA through the biologics license application, or BLA, process before they may legally be marketed in the United States. United States Drug Development Process In the United States, the FDA regulates drugs under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, and implementing regulations and biological products under both the FDCA and the Public Health Service Act, or the PHSA, and implementing regulations. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals and compliance with appropriate federal, state, local and foreign statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. Failure to comply with the applicable U.S. requirements at any time during the product development process, approval process, or after approval, may subject an applicant to administrative or judicial sanctions. These sanctions could include the FDA’s refusal to approve pending applications, withdrawal of an approval, a clinical hold, warning letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, injunctions, fines, refusals of government contracts, restitution, disgorgement or civil or criminal penalties. The process required by the FDA before a drug or biological product may be marketed in the United States generally involves the following: • completion of preclinical laboratory tests, animal studies and formulation studies according to Good Laboratory Practices regulations; • submission to the FDA of an IND, which must become effective before human clinical studies may begin; • performance of adequate and well-controlled human clinical studies according to Good Clinical Practices, or GCP, to establish the safety and efficacy of the proposed drug or biological product for its intended use; • submission to the FDA of an NDA for a new drug or BLA for a biological product; • satisfactory completion of an FDA inspection of the manufacturing facility or facilities at which the drug or biological product is produced to assess compliance with cGMP; and • FDA review and approval of the NDA or BLA. The testing and approval process requires substantial time, effort and financial resources and we cannot be certain that any approvals for our product candidates will be granted on a timely basis, if at all. Once a pharmaceutical or biological product candidate is identified for development, it enters the preclinical testing stage. Preclinical tests include laboratory evaluations of product chemistry, toxicity, formulation and stability, as well as animal studies to assess its potential safety and efficacy. An IND sponsor must submit the results of the preclinical tests, together with manufacturing information, analytical data and any available clinical data or literature, to the FDA as part of the IND. The sponsor will also include a protocol detailing, among other things, the objectives of the initial clinical study, the parameters to be used in monitoring safety and the effectiveness criteria to be evaluated if the initial clinical study lends itself to an efficacy evaluation. Some preclinical testing may continue even after the IND is submitted. The IND automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA places the clinical study on a clinical hold within that 30-day time period. In such a case, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before the clinical study can begin. Clinical holds may also be imposed by the FDA at any time before or during clinical studies due to safety concerns or non-compliance. All clinical studies must be conducted under the supervision of one or more qualified investigators in accordance with GCP regulations. These regulations include the requirement that all research subjects provide informed consent. Further, an institutional review board, or IRB, must review and approve the plan for any clinical study before it commences at any institution. An IRB considers, among other things, whether the risks to individuals participating in the studies are minimized and are reasonable in relation to anticipated benefits. The IRB also approves the information regarding the clinical study and the consent form that must be provided to each clinical study subject or to his or her legal representative and must monitor the clinical study until completed. Each new clinical protocol and any amendments to the protocol must be submitted to the FDA for review, and to the IRBs for approval. Protocols detail, among other things, the objectives of the clinical study, dosing procedures, subject selection and exclusion criteria, and the parameters to be used to monitor subject safety. 30 Table of Contents Human clinical studies are typically conducted in three sequential phases that may overlap or be combined: • Phase 1. The product is initially introduced into healthy human subjects and tested for safety, dosage tolerance, absorption, metabolism, distribution and excretion. In the case of some products for severe or life-threatening diseases, especially when the product may be too inherently toxic to ethically administer to healthy volunteers, the initial human testing is often conducted in patients. • Phase 2. Involves studies in a limited patient population to identify possible adverse effects and safety risks to preliminarily evaluate the efficacy of the product for specific targeted diseases and to determine dosage tolerance and optimal dosage and schedule. • Phase 3. Clinical studies are undertaken to further evaluate dosage, clinical efficacy and safety in an expanded patient population at geographically dispersed clinical study sites. These studies are intended to establish the overall risk/benefit ratio of the product and provide an adequate basis for product labeling. Progress reports detailing the results of the clinical studies must be submitted at least annually to the FDA and safety reports must be submitted to the FDA and the investigators for serious and unexpected adverse events. Phase 1, Phase 2 and Phase 3 testing may not be completed successfully within any specified period, if at all. The FDA or the sponsor may suspend or terminate a clinical study at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the research subjects or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. Similarly, an IRB can suspend or terminate approval of a clinical study at its institution if the clinical study is not being conducted in accordance with the IRB’s requirements or if the drug or biological product has been associated with unexpected serious harm to patients. Concurrent with clinical studies, companies usually complete additional animal studies and must also develop additional information about the chemistry and physical characteristics of the product and finalize a process for manufacturing the product in commercial quantities in accordance with cGMP requirements. The manufacturing process must be capable of consistently producing quality batches of the product candidate and, among other things, the manufacturer must develop methods for testing the identity, strength, quality and purity of the final product. Additionally, appropriate packaging must be selected and tested and stability studies must be conducted to demonstrate that the product candidate does not undergo unacceptable deterioration over its shelf life. U.S. Review and Approval Processes The results of product development, preclinical studies and clinical studies, along with descriptions of the manufacturing process, analytical tests conducted on the drug or biological product, proposed labeling and other relevant information, are submitted to the FDA as part of an NDA for a new drug or BLA for a biological product, requesting approval to market the product. The submission of an NDA or BLA is subject to the payment of a substantial user fee; a waiver of such fee may be obtained under certain limited circumstances. In addition, under the Pediatric Research Equity Act of 2003, or PREA, which was reauthorized under the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007, an NDA or BLA or supplement to an NDA or BLA must contain data to assess the safety and effectiveness of the drug or biological product for the claimed indications in all relevant pediatric subpopulations and to support dosing and administration for each pediatric subpopulation for which the product is safe and effective. The FDA may grant deferrals for submission of data or full or partial waivers. Unless otherwise required by regulation, PREA does not apply to any drug or biological product for an indication for which orphan designation has been granted. The FDA reviews all NDAs and BLAs submitted to ensure that they are sufficiently complete for substantive review before it accepts them for filing. The FDA may request additional information rather than accept a NDA or BLA for filing. In this event, the NDA or BLA must be re-submitted with the additional information. The re-submitted application is also subject to review before the FDA accepts it for filing. Once the submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth substantive review. The FDA reviews an NDA to determine, among other things, whether a product is safe and effective for its intended use and whether its manufacturing is cGMP-compliant to assure and preserve the product’s identity, strength, quality and purity. The FDA reviews a BLA to determine, among other things, whether the product is safe, has an acceptable purity profile and is adequately potent, and whether its manufacturing meets standards designed to assure the product’s continued identity, sterility, safety, purity and potency. Before approving an NDA or BLA, the FDA will inspect the facility or facilities where the product is manufactured. The FDA will not approve an application unless it determines that the manufacturing 31 Table of Contents processes and facilities are in compliance with cGMP requirements and adequate to assure consistent production of the product within required specifications. The FDA may refer the NDA or BLA to an advisory committee for review, evaluation and recommendation as to whether the application should be approved and under what conditions. An advisory committee is a panel of experts who provide advice and recommendations when requested by the FDA on matters of importance that come before the agency. The FDA is not bound by the recommendation of an advisory committee but it generally follows such recommendations. The approval process is lengthy and difficult and the FDA may refuse to approve an NDA or BLA if the applicable regulatory criteria are not satisfied or may require additional clinical data or other data and information. Even if such data and information is submitted, the FDA may ultimately decide that the NDA or BLA does not satisfy the criteria for approval. Data obtained from clinical studies are not always conclusive and the FDA may interpret data differently than we interpret the same data. The FDA will issue a complete response letter if the agency decides not to approve the NDA or BLA in its present form. The complete response letter usually describes all of the specific deficiencies in the NDA or BLA identified by the FDA. The deficiencies identified may be minor, for example, requiring labeling changes, or major, for example, requiring additional clinical studies. Additionally, the complete response letter may include recommended actions that the applicant might take to place the application in a condition for approval. If a complete response letter is issued, the applicant may either resubmit the NDA or BLA, addressing all of the deficiencies identified in the letter, or withdraw the application If a product receives regulatory approval, the approval may be significantly limited to specific diseases and dosages or the indications for use may otherwise be limited, which could restrict the commercial value of the product. Further, the FDA may require that certain contraindications, warnings or precautions be included in the product labeling. In addition, the FDA may require Phase 4 testing which involves clinical studies designed to further assess a drug or biological product’s safety and effectiveness after NDA or BLA approval and may require testing and surveillance programs to monitor the safety of approved products that have been commercialized. Patent Term Restoration and Marketing Exclusivity Depending upon the timing, duration and specifics of FDA approval of the use of our product candidates, some of our U.S. patents may be eligible for limited patent term extension under the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, commonly referred to as the Hatch-Waxman Amendments. The Hatch-Waxman Amendments permit a patent restoration term of up to five years as compensation for patent term lost during the FDA regulatory review process. However, patent term restoration cannot extend the remaining term of a patent beyond a total of 14 years from the product’s approval date. The patent term restoration period is generally one-half the time between the effective date of an IND and the submission date of an NDA plus the time between the submission date of an NDA and the approval of that application. Only one patent applicable to an approved drug is eligible for the extension and the application for the extension must be submitted prior to the expiration of the patent. The USPTO, in consultation with the FDA, reviews and approves the application for any patent term extension or restoration. In the future, we intend to apply for restorations of patent terms for some of our currently owned or licensed patents to add patent life beyond their current expiration dates, depending on the expected length of the clinical studies and other factors involved in the filing of the relevant NDA. Market exclusivity provisions under the FDCA can also delay the submission or the approval of certain competitor applications. The FDCA provides a five-year period of non-patent marketing exclusivity within the United States to the first applicant to gain approval of an NDA for a new chemical entity. A drug is a new chemical entity if the FDA has not previously approved any other new drug containing the same active moiety, which is the molecule or ion responsible for the action of the drug substance. During the exclusivity period, the FDA may not accept for review an abbreviated new drug application, or ANDA, or a 505(b)(2) NDA submitted by another company for another version of such drug where the applicant does not own or have a legal right of reference to all the data required for approval. However, an application may be submitted after four years if it contains a certification of patent invalidity or non-infringement. The FDCA also provides three years of marketing exclusivity for an NDA, 505(b)(2) NDA or supplement to an existing NDA if new clinical investigations, other than bioavailability studies, that were conducted or sponsored by the applicant are deemed by the FDA to be essential to the approval of the application, for example new indications, dosages or strengths of an existing drug. This three-year exclusivity covers only the conditions associated with the new clinical investigations and does not prohibit the FDA from approving ANDAs for drugs containing the original active agent. Five-year and three-year exclusivity 32 Table of Contents will not delay the submission or approval of a full NDA. However, an applicant submitting a full NDA would be required to conduct or obtain a right of reference to all of the preclinical studies and adequate and well-controlled clinical studies necessary to demonstrate safety and effectiveness. HR 3590 provides 12 years of data exclusivity for innovator biologics. During this exclusivity period, competitors are barred from relying on the innovator’s safety and efficacy data to gain FDA approval. Therefore, a competitor seeking to obtain marketing approval during this exclusivity period would be required to conduct its own preclinical and clinical studies. Pediatric exclusivity is another type of exclusivity in the United States. Pediatric exclusivity, if granted, adds an additional six months to an existing exclusivity or statutory delay in approval resulting from a patent certification. This six-month exclusivity, which runs from the end of other exclusivity protection or patent delay, may be granted based on the voluntary completion of a pediatric study in accordance with an FDA-issued “Written Request” for such a study. The current pediatric exclusivity provision was reauthorized in September 2007. Orphan Drug Designation Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan designation to a drug or biological product intended to treat a rare disease or condition, which is generally a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States, or more than 200,000 individuals in the United States and for which there is no reasonable expectation that the cost of developing and making a drug or biological product available in the United States for this type of disease or condition will be recovered from sales of the product. Orphan product designation must be requested before submitting an NDA or BLA. After the FDA grants orphan product designation, the identity of the therapeutic agent and its potential orphan use are disclosed publicly by the FDA. Orphan product designation does not convey any advantage in or shorten the duration of the regulatory review and approval process. If a product that has orphan designation subsequently receives the first FDA approval for the disease or condition for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to orphan product exclusivity, which means that the FDA may not approve any other applications to market the same drug or biological product for the same indication, except in very limited circumstances, for seven years. Competitors, however, may receive approval of different products for the indication for which the orphan product has exclusivity or obtain approval for the same product, but for a different indication for which the orphan product has exclusivity. Orphan product exclusivity could also block the approval of one of our products for seven years if a competitor obtains approval of the same drug or biological product as defined by the FDA or if our product candidate is determined to be contained within the competitor’s product for the same indication or disease. If a drug or biological product designated as an orphan product receives marketing approval for an indication broader than what is designated, it may not be entitled to orphan product exclusivity. The FDA also administers a clinical research grants program, whereby researchers may compete for funding to conduct clinical studies to support the approval of drugs, biologics, medical devices and medical foods for rare diseases and conditions. A product does not have to be designated as an orphan product to be eligible for the grant program. An application for an orphan grant should propose one discrete clinical study to facilitate FDA approval of the product for a rare disease or condition. The clinical study may address an unapproved new product or an unapproved new use for a product already on the market. Expedited Development and Review Programs The FDA has a fast track program that is intended to expedite or facilitate the process for reviewing new drugs and biological products that meet certain criteria. Specifically, new drugs and biological products are eligible for fast track designation if they are intended to treat a serious or life-threatening condition and demonstrate the potential to address unmet medical needs for the condition. Fast track designation applies to the combination of the product and the specific indication for which it is being studied. For a fast track product, the FDA may consider for review on a rolling basis sections of the NDA or BLA before the complete application is submitted, if the sponsor provides a schedule for the submission of the sections of the NDA or BLA, the FDA agrees to accept sections of the NDA or BLA and determines that the schedule is acceptable, and the sponsor pays any required user fees upon submission of the first section of the NDA or BLA. A fast track product may also be eligible for other types of FDA programs intended to expedite development and review, such as priority review and accelerated approval. A fast track product is eligible for priority review if it has the potential to provide safe and effective therapy where no satisfactory alternative therapy exists or a 33 Table of Contents significant improvement in the treatment, diagnosis or prevention of a disease compared to marketed products. The FDA will attempt to direct additional resources to the evaluation of an application for a new drug or biological product designated for priority review in an effort to facilitate the review. Additionally, a fast track product may be eligible for accelerated approval. Drug or biological products studied for their safety and effectiveness in treating serious or life-threatening illnesses and that provide meaningful therapeutic benefit over existing treatments may receive accelerated approval, which means that they may be approved on the basis of adequate and well-controlled clinical studies establishing that the product has an effect on a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict a clinical benefit, or on the basis of an effect on a clinical endpoint other than survival or irreversible morbidity. As a condition of approval, the FDA may require that a sponsor of a drug or biological product receiving accelerated approval perform adequate and well-controlled post-marketing clinical studies. Fast track designation, priority review and accelerated approval do not change the standards for approval but may expedite the development or approval process. We have been granted fast track designation for our product candidate, A-001, for the prevention of acute chest syndrome associated with sickle cell disease in at-risk patients. Even though we have received fast track designation for A-001, the FDA may later decide that A-001 no longer meets the conditions for qualification. In addition, obtaining fast track designation may not provide us with a material commercial advantage. Post-Approval Requirements Any drug or biological products for which we receive FDA approvals are subject to continuing regulation by the FDA, including, among other things, record-keeping requirements, reporting of adverse experiences with the product, providing the FDA with updated safety and efficacy information, product sampling and distribution requirements, complying with certain electronic records and signature requirements and complying with FDA promotion and advertising requirements. The FDA strictly regulates labeling, advertising, promotion and other types of information on products that are placed on the market. Drugs and biological products may be promoted only for the approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of the approved label. Further, manufacturers of drugs and biological products must continue to comply with cGMP requirements, which are extensive and require considerable time, resources and ongoing investment to ensure compliance. In addition, changes to the manufacturing process generally require prior FDA approval before being implemented and other types of changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications and additional labeling claims, are also subject to further FDA review and approval. Drug and biological product manufacturers and other entities involved in the manufacturing and distribution of approved drugs or biological products are required to register their establishments with the FDA and certain state agencies, and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and certain state agencies for compliance with cGMP and other laws. The cGMP requirements apply to all stages of the manufacturing process, including the production, processing, sterilization, packaging, labeling, storage and shipment of the drug or biological product. Manufacturers must establish validated systems to ensure that products meet specifications and regulatory standards, and test each product batch or lot prior to its release. Manufacturers of biological products must also report to the FDA any deviations from cGMP that may affect the safety, purity or potency of a distributed product; or any unexpected or unforeseeable event that may affect the safety, purity or potency of a distributed product. The regulations also require investigation and correction of any deviations from cGMP and impose documentation requirements. We rely, and expect to continue to rely, on third parties for the production of clinical and commercial quantities of our products. Future FDA and state inspections may identify compliance issues at the facilities of our contract manufacturers that may disrupt production or distribution or may require substantial resources to correct. The FDA may withdraw a product approval if compliance with regulatory standards is not maintained or if problems occur after the product reaches the market. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product may result in restrictions on the product or even complete withdrawal of the product from the market. Further, the failure to maintain compliance with regulatory requirements may result in administrative or judicial actions, such as fines, warning letters, holds on clinical studies, product recalls or seizures, product detention or refusal to permit the import or export of products, refusal to approve pending applications or supplements, restrictions on marketing or manufacturing, injunctions or civil or criminal penalties. 34 Table of Contents In addition, from time to time, legislation is drafted, introduced and passed in Congress that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the approval, manufacturing and marketing of products regulated by the FDA. For example, in September 2007, the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 was enacted, giving the FDA enhanced post-market authority, including the authority to require post-market studies and clinical studies, labeling changes based on new safety information and compliance with a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy, or REMS, approved by the FDA. In determining whether a REMS is necessary, the FDA must consider the size of the population likely to use the drug or biological product, the seriousness of the disease or condition to be treated, the expected benefit of the product, the duration of treatment, the seriousness of known or potential adverse events for varespladib and whether the product is a new molecular entity. We have submitted a REMS as an appendix to the SPA. If the FDA determines our REMS is necessary, we must submit a REMS plan as part of an NDA or BLA. The FDA may require that a REMS include various elements, such as a medication guide, patient package insert, a communication plan to educate health care providers, limitations on who may prescribe or dispense the product, or other measures. Failure to comply with any requirements under the new law may result in significant penalties. The new law also authorizes significant civil money penalties for the dissemination of false or misleading direct-to-consumer advertisements and allows the FDA to require companies to submit direct-to-consumer television drug advertisements for FDA review prior to public dissemination. Additionally, the new law expands the clinical study registry so that sponsors of all clinical studies, except for Phase 1 clinical studies, are required to submit certain clinical study information for inclusion in the clinical study registry data bank. In addition to new legislation, the FDA regulations and policies are often revised or reinterpreted by the agency in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. It is impossible to predict whether further legislative or FDA regulation or policy changes will be enacted or implemented and what the impact of such changes, if any, may be. Foreign Regulation In addition to regulations in the United States, we will be subject to a variety of foreign regulations governing clinical studies and commercial sales and distribution of our products to the extent we choose to sell any products outside of the United States. Whether or not we obtain FDA approval for a product, we must obtain approval of a product by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries before we can commence clinical studies or marketing of the product in those countries. The approval process varies from country to country and the time may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical studies, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary greatly from country to country. In the European Union, our products are subject to extensive regulatory requirements, which provide, among other things, that no medicinal product may be placed on the market of a European Union member state unless a marketing authorization has been issued by the European Medicines Agency or a national competent authority. European Union member states require both regulatory clearance by the national competent authority and a favorable ethics committee opinion prior to the commencement of a clinical study. Under the European Union regulatory systems, we may submit marketing authorization applications either under a centralized or decentralized procedure. The centralized procedure provides for the grant of a single marketing authorization that is valid for all European Union member states. The centralized procedure is compulsory for medicines produced by certain biotechnological processes, products with a new active substance indicated for the treatment of certain diseases such as neurodegenerative disorder or diabetes and products designated as orphan medicinal products, and optional for those products which are highly innovative or for which a centralized process is in the interest of patients. The decentralized procedure of approval provides for approval by one or more other, or concerned, member states of an assessment of an application performed by one member state, known as the reference member state. Under the decentralized approval procedure, an applicant submits an application, or dossier, and related materials (draft summary of product characteristics, draft labeling and package leaflet) to the reference member state and concerned member states. The reference member state prepares a draft assessment and drafts of the related materials within 120 days after receipt of a valid application. Within 90 days of receiving the reference member state’s assessment report, each concerned member state must decide whether to approve the assessment report and related materials. If a member state cannot approve the assessment report and related materials on the grounds of potential serious risk to public health, the disputed points may eventually be referred to the European Commission, whose decision is binding on all member states. 35 Table of Contents Reimbursement Sales of pharmaceutical products depend significantly on the availability of third-party reimbursement. Third-party payors include government health administrative authorities, including at the federal and state level, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. We anticipate third-party payors will provide reimbursement for our products. However, these third-party payors are increasingly challenging the price and examining the cost-effectiveness of medical products and services. In addition, significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products. We may need to conduct expensive pharmacoeconomic studies in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of our products. Our product candidates may not be considered cost-effective. It is time consuming and expensive for us to seek reimbursement from third-party payors. Reimbursement may not be available or sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a competitive and profitable basis. In addition, the U.S. Congress and state legislatures from time to time propose and adopt initiatives aimed at cost containment, which could impact our ability to sell our products profitably. For example, in March 2010, President Obama signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, and the associated reconciliation bill, which we refer to collectively as the Health Care Reform Law, a sweeping law intended to broaden access to health insurance, reduce or constrain the growth of healthcare spending, enhance remedies against fraud and abuse, add new transparency requirements for healthcare and health insurance industries, impose new taxes and fees on the health industry and impose additional health policy reforms. Effective October 1, 2010, the Health Care Reform Law revises the definition of “average manufacturer price” for reporting purposes, which could increase the amount of Medicaid drug rebates to states once the provision is effective. Further, beginning in 2011, the new law imposes a significant annual fee on companies that manufacture or import certain branded prescription drug products and biologic agents. Substantial new provisions affecting compliance also have been enacted, which may require us to modify our business practices with healthcare practitioners. We will not know the full effects of the Health Care Reform Law until applicable federal and state agencies issue regulations or guidance under the new law. Although it is too early to determine the effect of the Health Care Reform Law, the new law appears likely to continue the pressure on pharmaceutical pricing, especially under the Medicare program, and also may increase our regulatory burdens and operating costs. The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, or the MMA, imposed new requirements for the distribution and pricing of prescription drugs for Medicare beneficiaries, and included a major expansion of the prescription drug benefit under a new Medicare Part D. Medicare Part D went into effect on January 1, 2006. Under Part D, Medicare beneficiaries may enroll in prescription drug plans offered by private entities which will provide coverage of outpatient prescription drugs. Part D plans include both stand-alone prescription drug benefit plans and prescription drug coverage as a supplement to Medicare Advantage plans. Unlike Medicare Part A and B, Part D coverage is not standardized. Part D prescription drug plan sponsors are not required to pay for all covered Part D drugs, and each drug plan can develop its own drug formulary that identifies which drugs it will cover and at what tier or level. However, Part D prescription drug formularies must include drugs within each therapeutic category and class of covered Part D drugs, though not necessarily all the drugs in each category or class. Any formulary used by a Part D prescription drug plan must be developed and reviewed by a pharmacy and therapeutic committee. It is not clear what effect the MMA will have on the prices paid for currently approved drugs and the pricing options for new drugs approved after January 1, 2006. Government payment for some of the costs of prescription drugs may increase demand for products for which we receive marketing approval. However, any negotiated prices for our products covered by a Part D prescription drug plan will likely be lower than the prices we might otherwise obtain. Moreover, while the MMA applies only to drug benefits for Medicare beneficiaries, private payors often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own payment rates. Any reduction in payment that results from the MMA may result in a similar reduction in payments from non-governmental payors. There are also laws that govern a company’s eligibility to participate in Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements. For example, a company may be debarred from participation if it is found to have violated federal anti-kickback laws, which could have a significant effect on a company’s ability to operate its business. The cost of pharmaceuticals continues to generate substantial governmental and third-party payor interest. We expect that the pharmaceutical industry will experience pricing pressures due to the trend toward managed 36 Table of Contents healthcare, the increasing influence of managed care organizations, and additional legislative proposals. Indeed, we expect that there will continue to be a number of federal and state proposals to implement governmental pricing controls and limit the growth of healthcare costs, including the cost of prescription drugs. At the present time, Medicare is prohibited from negotiating directly with pharmaceutical companies for drugs. However, Congress is considering passing legislation that would lift the ban on federal negotiations. While we cannot predict whether such legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted, the adoption of such proposals could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some third-party payors also require pre-approval of coverage for new or innovative drug therapies before they will reimburse healthcare providers that use such therapies. While we cannot predict whether any proposed cost-containment measures will be adopted or otherwise implemented in the future, the announcement or adoption of these proposals could have a material adverse effect on our ability to obtain adequate prices for our product candidates and operate profitably. In addition, in some foreign countries, the proposed pricing for a drug must be approved before it may be lawfully marketed. The requirements governing drug pricing vary widely from country to country. For example, the European Union provides options for its member states to restrict the range of medicinal products for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices of medicinal products for human use. A member state may approve a specific price for the medicinal product or it may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the medicinal product on the market. In some countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take six to 12 months or longer after the receipt of marketing approval. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of our product candidate to other available therapies. There can be no assurance that any country that has price controls or reimbursement limitations for pharmaceutical products will allow favorable reimbursement and pricing arrangements for any of our products. Employees As of December 31, 2010, we had 25 employees, eight of whom hold an M.D., Ph.D. or Pharm. D. All of our employees are engaged in administration, finance, clinical, regulatory and business development functions. None of our employees are represented by a labor union, and we believe that our relations with our employees are good. Other Available Information We are subject to the information requirements of the Exchange Act. Therefore, we file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC, which may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549 or by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. The mailing address of our headquarters is 25801 Industrial Blvd, Hayward, CA 94545, and our telephone number at that location is 510-856-5600. Our website is www.anthera.com. Through a link on the “Investors” section of our website (under “SEC Filings” in the “Financial Information” section), we make available, free of charge, the following filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC: our Annual Reports on Form 10-K; Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q; Current Reports on Form 8-K; and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Before you decide to invest in our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the financial statements and the related notes that appear at the end of this report. We believe the risks described below are the risks that are material to us as of the date of this report. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects would likely be materially and adversely affected. In these circumstances, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. 37 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Financial Condition and Capital Requirements We have incurred significant losses since our inception and anticipate that we will incur continued significant losses for the foreseeable future. We are a development stage company with only six years of operating history. We have focused primarily on developing our three product candidates, varespladib, A-623 and varespladib sodium (A-001). We have financed our operations exclusively through equity offerings and private placements of convertible debt and we have incurred losses in each year since our inception in September 2004. Our net losses were approximately $8.7 million in 2006, $25.7 million in 2007, $18.1 million in 2008, $12.2 million in 2009 and $40.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $105.6 million. Substantially all of our losses resulted from costs incurred in connection with our product development programs and from general and administrative costs associated with our operations. We expect to incur additional losses over the next several years, and these losses may increase if we cannot generate revenues. Our historical losses, combined with expected future losses, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity and working capital. We expect our development expenses, as well as our clinical product manufacturing expenses, to increase in connection with our pivotal Phase 3 clinical study named VISTA-16 for varespladib, our Phase 2b clinical study named PEARL-SC for A-623 and other clinical studies related to the development of A-623. In addition, we will incur additional costs of operating as a public company and, if we obtain regulatory approval for any of our product candidates, we may incur significant sales, marketing, in-licensing and outsourced manufacturing expenses as well as continued product development expenses. As a result, we expect to continue to incur significant and increasing losses for the foreseeable future. We have never generated any revenue and may never be profitable. Our ability to generate revenue and achieve profitability depends on our ability, alone or with collaborators, to successfully complete the development of our product candidates, conduct preclinical tests in animals and clinical studies in human beings, obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for our product candidates and commercialize any approved products. We have not generated any revenue from our development-stage product candidates, and we do not know when, or if, we will generate any revenue. The commercial success of our development-stage product candidates will depend on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, our ability to: • obtain favorable results for and advance the development of our lead product candidate, varespladib, for the treatment of acute coronary syndrome, including successfully launching and completing the VISTA-16 study; • obtain favorable results for and advance the development of our product candidate A-623 for the treatment of B-cell mediated autoimmune diseases, including successfully launching and completing a Phase 2b clinical study in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus, or lupus, or other indications related to the development of A-623; • obtain favorable results for and advance the development of our product candidate A-001 for the prevention of acute chest syndrome associated with sickle cell disease, including completing a multi-center Phase 2 clinical study; • successfully execute our planned preclinical studies in animals and clinical studies in human beings for our other product candidates; • obtain regulatory approval for varespladib, A-623, A-001 and our other product candidates; • if regulatory approvals are obtained, begin the commercial manufacturing of our product candidates with our third-party manufacturers; • launch commercial sales and effectively market our product candidates, either independently or in strategic collaborations with third parties; and • achieve broad market acceptance of our product candidates in the medical community and with third-party payors. All of our product candidates are subject to the risks of failure inherent in the development of therapeutics based on new technologies. Currently, we have three product candidates in clinical development: varespladib, 38 Table of Contents A-623 and A-001. These product candidates could fail in clinical studies if we are unable to demonstrate that they are effective or if they cause unacceptable adverse effects in the patients we treat. Failure of our product candidates in clinical studies would have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue or become profitable. If we are not successful in achieving regulatory approval for our product candidates or are significantly delayed in doing so, our business will be materially harmed. Additionally, all of our other product candidates are in preclinical development. Our drug discovery efforts may not produce any other viable or marketable product candidates. We do not expect any of our potential product candidates to be commercially available until at least 2013. Even if our product candidates are approved for commercial sale, the approved product candidate may not gain market acceptance or achieve commercial success. Physicians, patients, payors or the medical community in general may be unwilling to accept, utilize or recommend any of our products. We would anticipate incurring significant costs associated with commercializing any approved product. Even if we are able to generate product sales, which we cannot guarantee, we may not achieve profitability soon thereafter, if ever. If we are unable to generate product revenues, we will not become profitable and may be unable to continue operations without additional funding. We will need substantial additional capital in the future to fund our operations. If additional capital is not available, we will have to delay, reduce or cease operations. We will need to raise substantial additional capital to fund our operations and to develop our product candidates. Our future capital requirements could be substantial and will depend on many factors including: • the rate of progress of our Phase 3 clinical study named VISTA-16 study for varespladib and our Phase 2b clinical study named PEARL-SC for A-623; • the scope, size, rate of progress, results and costs of our preclinical studies, clinical studies and other development activities for one or more of our other product candidates; • manufacturing campaign of A-623 clinical matters, including formulation development and enhancement; • non-clinical activities that we may pursue parallel to clinical trials for each clinical compound; • the cost, timing and outcomes of regulatory proceedings; • payments received under any strategic collaborations; • the filing, prosecution and enforcement of patent claims; • the costs associated with commercializing our product candidates if they receive regulatory approval, including the cost and timing of developing sales and marketing capabilities, or entering into strategic collaboration with others relating to the commercialization of our product candidates; and • revenues received from approved products, if any, in the future. As of the date of this report, we anticipate that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, will enable us to maintain our currently planned operations through at least the next 12 months. Changing circumstances may cause us to consume capital significantly faster than we currently anticipate. Additional financing may not be available when we need it or may not be available on terms that are favorable to us. If adequate funds are not available to us on a timely basis, or at all, we may be required to: • terminate, reduce or delay preclinical studies, clinical studies or other development activities for one or more of our product candidates; or • terminate, reduce or delay our (i) establishment of sales and marketing capabilities, (ii) pursuit of strategic collaborations with others relating to the sales, marketing and commercialization of our product candidates or (iii) other activities that may be necessary to commercialize our product candidates, if approved for sale. 39 Table of Contents The timing of the milestone and royalty payments we are required to make to each of Eli Lilly and Company, Shionogi & Co., Ltd. and Amgen Inc. is uncertain and could adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. In July 2006, we entered into a license agreement with Eli Lilly and Company, or Eli Lilly, and Shionogi & Co., Ltd. to develop and commercialize certain secretory phospholipase A2, or sPLA2, inhibitors for the treatment of cardiovascular disease and other diseases. Pursuant to our license agreement with them, we have an obligation to pay to each of Eli Lilly and Shionogi & Co., Ltd. significant milestone and royalty payments based upon how we develop and commercialize certain sPLA2 inhibitors, including varespladib and A-001, and our achievement of certain significant corporate, clinical and financial events. For varespladib, we are required to pay up to $32.0 million upon achievement of certain approval and post-approval sales milestones. For A-001, we are required to pay up to $3.0 million upon achievement of certain clinical development milestones and up to $25.0 million upon achievement of certain approval and post-approval sales milestones. For other product formulations that we are not currently developing, we would be required to pay up to $2.0 million upon achievement of certain clinical development milestones and up to $35.5 million upon achievement of certain approval and post-approval sales milestones. In addition, in December 2007, we entered into a license agreement with Amgen Inc., or Amgen, pursuant to which we obtained an exclusive worldwide license to certain technology and compounds relating to A-623. Pursuant to our license agreement with Amgen, we are required to make various milestone payments upon our achievement of certain development, regulatory and commercial objectives for any A-623 formulation. We are required to pay up to $10.0 million upon achievement of certain pre-approval clinical development milestones and up to $23.0 million upon achievement of certain post-approval milestones. We are also required to make tiered quarterly royalty payments on net sales, which increase as a percentage from the high single digits to the low double digits as net sales increase. The timing of our achievement of these events and corresponding milestone payments becoming due to Eli Lilly, Shionogi & Co., Ltd. and Amgen is subject to factors relating to the clinical and regulatory development and commercialization of certain sPLA2 inhibitors or A-623, as applicable, many of which are beyond our control. We may become obligated to make a milestone payment during a period in which we do not have the cash on hand to make such payment, which could require us to delay our clinical studies, curtail our operations, scale back our commercialization and marketing efforts, seek funds to meet these obligations at terms unfavorable to us or default on our license agreements, which could result in license termination. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our business and prospects. We were incorporated in September 2004. Our operations to date have been limited to organizing and staffing our company, acquiring product and technology rights, conducting product development activities for our primary product candidates, varespladib, A-623 and A-001, and performing research and development. We have not yet demonstrated an ability to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize a product candidate. Consequently, any predictions about our future performance may not be as accurate as they could be if we had a history of successfully developing and commercializing pharmaceutical products. Risks Associated with Development and Commercialization of Our Product Candidates We depend substantially on the success of our three primary product candidates, varespladib, A-623 and A-001, which are still under clinical development. We cannot assure you that these product candidates or any of our other product candidates will receive regulatory approval or be successfully commercialized. To date, we have not obtained marketing approval for, or marketed, distributed or sold any product candidates. The success of our business depends primarily upon our ability to develop and commercialize our three primary product candidates successfully. Our lead product candidate is varespladib, which has completed its Phase 2 clinical studies and for which we have received (i) an agreement from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, on a Special Protocol Assessment, or SPA, for the VISTA-16 Phase 3 study protocol, and (ii) scientific advice from the European Medicines Agency on our European development strategy for varespladib. We initiated the VISTA-16 study for varespladib in June 2010. Our next product candidate is A-623, which has completed several Phase 1 clinical studies and recently began enrollment for our Phase 2b clinical study. In July 2010, we received clearance from the FDA to begin recruitment of lupus patients into the PEARL-SC Phase 2b clinical study. In November 2010, we placed a voluntary hold on the PEARL-SC study due to problems found with vials. Patient enrollment in the study was temporarily suspended and dosing was discontinued in patients who were enrolled in the study while we conducted an analysis of the problem. 40 Table of Contents We resolved the issues found with the vials in December 2010. After analysis, simulation and consultation with industry experts, we determined that shipping on dry ice was the root cause of the issue. Shipping logistics were modified and we reinitiated enrollment in PEARL-SC and dosing in January 2011. We have received no reports of patient-related side effects or problems with drug administration that could be attributed to the vial problem. Our third product candidate, varespladib sodium (A-001), is an intravenously administered inhibitor of sPLA2. We have completed a Phase 2 clinical study for the prevention of acute chest syndrome associated with sickle cell disease. A pre-specified interim review of our Phase 2 clinical study results by a Data Safety Monitoring Board, or DSMB, indicated A-001, at a certain dose, reduced sPLA2 activity by more than 80% from baseline within 48 hours. Furthermore, the incidence of acute chest syndrome appeared to be related to the level of sPLA2 activity. Our product candidates are prone to the risks of failure inherent in drug development. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any product candidate for a target indication, we must demonstrate with substantial evidence gathered in preclinical and well-controlled clinical studies, and, with respect to approval in the United States, to the satisfaction of the FDA and, with respect to approval in other countries, similar regulatory authorities in those countries, that the product candidate is safe and effective for use for that target indication and that the manufacturing facilities, processes and controls are adequate. Despite our efforts, our product candidates may not: • offer therapeutic or other improvement over existing, comparable therapeutics; • be proven safe and effective in clinical studies; • meet applicable regulatory standards; • be capable of being produced in sufficient quantities at acceptable costs; • be successfully commercialized; or • obtain favorable reimbursement. We are not permitted to market our varespladib and A-001 product candidates in the United States until we receive approval of a new drug application, or NDA, or with respect to our A-623 product candidate, approval of a biologics license application, or BLA, from the FDA, or in any foreign countries until we receive the requisite approval from such countries. We have not submitted an NDA or BLA or received marketing approval for any of our product candidates. Preclinical testing and clinical studies are long, expensive and uncertain processes. We may spend several years completing our testing for any particular product candidate, and failure can occur at any stage. Negative or inconclusive results or adverse medical events during a clinical study could also cause the FDA or us to terminate a clinical study or require that we repeat it or conduct additional clinical studies. Additionally, data obtained from a clinical study are susceptible to varying interpretations and the FDA or other regulatory authorities may interpret the results of our clinical studies less favorably than we do. The FDA and equivalent foreign regulatory agencies have substantial discretion in the approval process and may decide that our data are insufficient to support a marketing application and require additional preclinical, clinical or other studies. Any termination or suspension of, or delays in the commencement or completion of, clinical testing of our product candidates could result in increased costs to us, delay or limit our ability to generate revenue and adversely affect our commercial prospects. Delays in the commencement or completion of clinical testing could significantly affect our product development costs. We do not know whether planned clinical studies will begin on time or be completed on schedule, if at all. The commencement and completion of clinical studies can be delayed for a number of reasons, including delays related to: • obtaining regulatory approval to commence a clinical study or complying with conditions imposed by a regulatory authority regarding the scope or design of a clinical study; • reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective clinical research organizations, or CROs, and study sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and study sites; 41 Table of Contents • manufacturing, including manufacturing sufficient quantities of a product candidate or other materials for use in clinical studies; • obtaining institutional review board, or IRB, approval or the approval of other reviewing entities to conduct a clinical study at a prospective site; • recruiting and enrolling patients to participate in clinical studies for a variety of reasons, including size of patient population, nature of clinical study protocol, the availability of approved effective treatments for the relevant disease and competition from other clinical study programs for similar indications; • severe or unexpected drug-related adverse effects experienced by patients in a clinical study; and • retaining patients who have initiated a clinical study, but may withdraw due to treatment protocol, adverse effects from the therapy, lack of efficacy from the treatment, personal issues or who are lost to further follow-up. Clinical studies may also be delayed, suspended or terminated as a result of ambiguous or negative interim results, or results that are inconsistent with earlier results. For example, the independent statistician that is conducting the data review may recommend that we stop our VISTA-16 study for varespladib if certain biomarkers of inflammation and lipid profiles fail to meet pre-specified reductions from a subset of the first 1,000 or more patients. In addition, a clinical study may be suspended or terminated by us, the FDA, the IRB or other reviewing entity overseeing the clinical study at issue, any of our clinical study sites with respect to that site, or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including: • failure to conduct the clinical study in accordance with regulatory requirements or our clinical protocols; • inspection of the clinical study operations or study sites by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold; • unforeseen safety issues or any determination that a clinical study presents unacceptable health risks; and • lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical study, including the incurrence of unforeseen costs due to enrollment delays, requirements to conduct additional clinical studies and increased expenses associated with the services of our CROs and other third parties. Product development costs to us and our collaborators will increase if we have delays in testing or approval of our product candidates or if we need to perform more or larger clinical studies than planned. For example, we may need to increase our sample size for our VISTA-16 study for varespladib if the overall major adverse cardiovascular event, or MACE, rate is lower than expected. We typically rely on third-party clinical investigators at medical institutions and health care facilities to conduct our clinical studies and, as a result, we may face additional delaying factors outside our control. Additionally, changes in regulatory requirements and policies may occur and we may need to amend clinical study protocols to reflect these changes. Amendments may require us to resubmit our clinical study protocols to IRBs for reexamination, which may impact the costs, timing or successful completion of a clinical study. If we experience delays in completion of, or if we, the FDA or other regulatory authorities, the IRB or other reviewing entities, or any of our clinical study sites suspend or terminate any of our clinical studies, the commercial prospects for our product candidates may be harmed and our ability to generate product revenues will be delayed. In addition, many of the factors that cause, or lead to, termination or suspension of, or a delay in the commencement or completion of, clinical studies may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of a product candidate. Also, if one or more clinical studies are delayed, our competitors may be able to bring products to market before we do, and the commercial viability of our product candidates could be significantly reduced. The results of biomarker assays in earlier clinical studies in varespladib are not necessarily predictive of future results, and therefore the results of biomarker assays in the VISTA-16 study may not be similar to those observed previously. Success in our Phase 2 clinical studies in lowering low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, or LDL-C, C-reactive protein, or CRP, sPLA2 and interleukin-6, or IL-6, during treatment with varespladib does not ensure that later clinical studies, such as our VISTA-16 study, will demonstrate similar reductions in these biomarkers. Each of these biomarkers has been associated with an increased risk for secondary MACE following an acute coronary syndrome. 42 Table of Contents Our inability to demonstrate similar biomarker effects in our VISTA-16 study may reduce our ability to achieve our primary endpoint to reduce MACE and to achieve regulatory approval of varespladib. Even if we demonstrate similar biomarker effects in our VISTA-16 study, those results do not necessarily equate with reductions in MACE. Because the results of preclinical testing or earlier clinical studies are not necessarily predictive of future results, varespladib, A-623, A-001 or any other product candidate we advance into clinical studies may not have favorable results in later clinical studies or receive regulatory approval. Success in preclinical testing and early clinical studies does not ensure that later clinical studies will generate adequate data to demonstrate the efficacy and safety of an investigational drug or biologic. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, including those with greater resources and experience, have suffered significant setbacks in Phase 3 clinical studies, even after seeing promising results in earlier clinical studies. Despite the results reported in earlier clinical studies for our product candidates, including varespladib, A-623 and A-001, we do not know whether any Phase 3 or other clinical studies we may conduct will demonstrate adequate efficacy and safety to result in regulatory approval to market any of our product candidates. If later stage clinical studies do not produce favorable results, our ability to achieve regulatory approval for any of our product candidates may be adversely impacted. Even if we believe that our product candidates have performed satisfactorily in preclinical testing and clinical studies, we may nonetheless fail to obtain FDA approval for our product candidates. If we breach the license agreements for our primary product candidates, we could lose the ability to continue the development and commercialization of our primary product candidates. We are party to an agreement with Eli Lilly and Shionogi & Co., Ltd. containing exclusive, worldwide licenses, except for Japan, of the composition of matter, methods of making and methods of use for certain sPLA2 inhibitors. We are also party to an agreement with Amgen containing exclusive, worldwide licenses of the composition of matter and methods of use for A-623. These agreements require us to make timely milestone and royalty payments, provide regular information, maintain the confidentiality of and indemnify Eli Lilly, Shionogi & Co., Ltd. and Amgen under the terms of the agreements. If we fail to meet these obligations, our licensors may terminate our exclusive licenses and may be able to re-obtain licensed technology and aspects of any intellectual property controlled by us that relate to the licensed technology that originated from the licensors. Our licensors could effectively take control of the development and commercialization of varespladib, A-623 and A-001 after an uncured, material breach of our license agreements by us or if we voluntarily terminate the agreements. While we would expect to exercise all rights and remedies available to us, including seeking to cure any breach by us, and otherwise seek to preserve our rights under the patents licensed to us, we may not be able to do so in a timely manner, at an acceptable cost or at all. Any uncured, material breach under the licenses could result in our loss of exclusive rights and may lead to a complete termination of our product development and any commercialization efforts for varespladib, A-623 or A-001. Our industry is subject to intense competition. If we are unable to compete effectively, our product candidates may be rendered non-competitive or obsolete. The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. Our potential competitors include large pharmaceutical and more established biotechnology companies, specialty pharmaceutical and generic drug companies, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations that conduct research, seek patent protection and establish collaborative arrangements for research, development, manufacturing and commercialization. All of these competitors currently engage in, have engaged in or may engage in the future in the development, manufacturing, marketing and commercialization of pharmaceuticals and biotechnologies, some of which may compete with our present or future product candidates. It is possible that any of these competitors could develop technologies or products that would render our product candidates obsolete or non-competitive, which could adversely affect our revenue potential. Key competitive factors affecting the commercial success of our product candidates are likely to be efficacy, safety profile, reliability, convenience of dosing, price and reimbursement. The market for inflammatory disease therapeutics is especially large and competitive. All of the sPLA2 inhibitor compounds we are currently developing, if approved, will face intense competition, either as 43 Table of Contents monotherapies or in combination therapies. We are aware of other companies with products in development that are being tested for anti-inflammatory benefits in patients with acute coronary syndrome, such as Via Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and its 5-lipoxygenase, or 5-LO, inhibitor, which has been evaluated in Phase 2 clinical studies; and GlaxoSmithKline plc and its product candidate, darapladib, which is a lipoprotein associated phospholipase A2, or Lp-PLA2, inhibitor currently being evaluated in Phase 3 clinical studies. Although there are no sPLA2 inhibitor compounds currently approved by the FDA for the treatment of acute chest syndrome associated with sickle cell disease, Droxia, or hydroxyurea, is approved for the prevention of vaso-occlusive crisis, or VOC, in sickle cell disease and thus could reduce the pool of patients with VOC at risk for acute chest syndrome. Further, we are aware of companies with other products in development that are being tested for potential treatment of lupus, including Human Genome Sciences, Inc. and GlaxoSmithKline plc, who have a BAFF antagonist monoclonal antibody product candidate, Benlysta, which recently reported favorable results from two Phase 3 clinical studies in lupus; ZymoGenetics, Inc. and Merck Serono S.A., whose dual BAFF/APRIL antagonist fusion protein, Atacicept, is in a Phase 3 clinical study for lupus; and Immunomedics, Inc. and UCB S.A., who recently reported favorable results for their CD-22 antagonist humanized antibody, epratuzumab, which completed a Phase 2b clinical study in lupus and has begun a Phase 3 study. Many of our potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we do and significantly greater experience in the discovery and development of drug candidates, obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of products and the commercialization of those products. Accordingly, our competitors may be more successful than we may be in obtaining FDA approval for drugs and achieving widespread market acceptance. Our competitors’ drugs may be more effective, have fewer adverse effects, be less expensive to develop and manufacture or be more effectively marketed and sold than any product candidate we may commercialize and may render our product candidates obsolete or non-competitive before we can recover the expenses of developing and commercializing any of our product candidates. We anticipate that we will face intense and increasing competition as new drugs enter the market and advanced technologies become available. These entities may also establish collaborative or licensing relationships with our competitors. Finally, the development of new treatment methods for the diseases we are targeting could render our drugs non-competitive or obsolete. All of these factors could adversely affect our business. Our product candidates may cause undesirable adverse effects or have other properties that could delay or prevent their regulatory approval or limit the commercial profile of any approved label. Undesirable adverse effects caused by our product candidates could cause us, IRBs or other reviewing entities, clinical study sites, or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or halt clinical studies and could result in the denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or other regulatory authorities. Phase 2 clinical studies conducted by us with our product candidates have generated differences in adverse effects and serious adverse events. The most common adverse effects seen with any of our product candidates versus placebo include diarrhea, headache, nausea and increases in alanine aminotransferase, which is an enzyme that indicates liver cell injury. The most common serious adverse events seen with any of our product candidates include death, VOC and congestive heart failure. While none of these serious adverse events were considered related to the administration of our product candidates by the clinical investigators, if serious adverse events that are considered related to our product candidates are observed in any Phase 3 clinical studies, our ability to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates may be adversely impacted. Further, if any of our product candidates receives marketing approval and we or others later discover, after approval and use in an increasing number of patients, that our products could have adverse effect profiles that limit their usefulness or require their withdrawal (whether or not the therapies showed the adverse effect profile in Phase 1 through Phase 3 clinical studies), a number of potentially significant negative consequences could result, including: • regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of the product; • regulatory authorities may require the addition of labeling statements, such as warnings or contraindications; • we may be required to change the way the product is administered, conduct additional clinical studies or change the labeling of the product; • we could be sued and held liable for harm caused to patients; and • our reputation may suffer. 44 Table of Contents Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected product candidate and could substantially increase the costs of commercializing our product candidates. After the completion of our clinical studies, we cannot predict whether or when we will obtain regulatory approval to commercialize our product candidates and we cannot, therefore, predict the timing of any future revenue from these product candidates. Even if we project positive clinical results and file for regulatory approval, we cannot commercialize any of our product candidates until the appropriate regulatory authorities have reviewed and approved the applications for such product candidates. We cannot assure you that the regulatory agencies will complete their review processes in a timely manner or that we will obtain regulatory approval for any product candidate we develop. Satisfaction of regulatory requirements typically takes many years, is dependent upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. In addition, we may experience delays or rejections based upon additional government regulation from future legislation or administrative action or changes in FDA policy during the period of product development, clinical studies and FDA regulatory review. Our agreement with the FDA on an SPA for our VISTA-16 study of varespladib for the potential treatment of acute coronary syndrome does not guarantee any particular outcome from regulatory review of the study or the product candidate. The FDA’s SPA process creates a written agreement between the sponsoring company and the FDA regarding clinical study design and other clinical study issues that can be used to support approval of a product candidate. The SPA is intended to provide assurance that if the agreed upon clinical study protocols are followed and the clinical study endpoints are achieved, the data may serve as the primary basis for an efficacy claim in support of an NDA. However, the SPA agreement is not a guarantee of an approval of a product or any permissible claims about the product. In particular, the SPA is not binding on the FDA if public health concerns unrecognized at the time of the SPA agreement is entered into become evident, other new scientific concerns regarding product safety or efficacy arise or if the sponsor company fails to comply with the agreed upon clinical study protocols. Although we have an agreement with the FDA on an SPA for our VISTA-16 clinical study of varespladib for the potential short-term (16-week) treatment of acute coronary syndrome, we do not know how the FDA will interpret the commitments under our agreed upon SPA, how it will interpret the data and results or whether it will approve our varespladib product candidate for the short-term (16-week) treatment of acute coronary syndrome. Regardless of our SPA agreement, we cannot guarantee any particular outcome from regulatory review of our VISTA-16 study. Even if our product candidates receive regulatory approval, they may still face future development and regulatory difficulties. Even if U.S. regulatory approval is obtained, the FDA may still impose significant restrictions on a product’s indicated uses or marketing or impose ongoing requirements for potentially costly post-approval studies or post-market surveillance. For example, the label ultimately approved for varespladib, if any, may include restrictions on use. Further, the FDA has indicated that long-term safety data on varespladib may need to be obtained as a post-market requirement. Our product candidates will also be subject to ongoing FDA requirements governing the labeling, packaging, storage, distribution, safety surveillance, advertising, promotion, recordkeeping and reporting of safety and other post-market information. In addition, manufacturers of drug products and their facilities are subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory authorities for compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, regulations. If we or a regulatory agency discovers previously unknown problems with a product, such as adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where the product is manufactured, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product, the manufacturing facility or us, including requiring recall or withdrawal of the product from the market or suspension of manufacturing. If we, our product candidates or the manufacturing facilities for our product candidates fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may: • issue warning letters or untitled letters; • seek an injunction or impose civil or criminal penalties or monetary fines; • suspend or withdraw regulatory approval; • suspend any ongoing clinical studies; 45 Table of Contents • refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to applications filed by us; • suspend or impose restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; or • seize or detain products, refuse to permit the import or export of products, or require us to initiate a product recall. The occurrence of any event or penalty described above may inhibit our ability to commercialize our products and generate revenue. New legal and regulatory requirements could make it more difficult for us to obtain approvals for our product candidates and could limit or make more burdensome our ability to commercialize any approved products. New federal legislation or regulatory requirements could affect the requirements for obtaining regulatory approvals of our product candidates or otherwise limit our ability to commercialize any approved products or subject our products to more rigorous post-approval requirements. For example, the FDA Amendments Act of 2007, or FDAAA, granted the FDA new authority to impose post-approval clinical study requirements, require safety-related changes to product labeling and require the adoption of risk management plans, referred to in the legislation as risk evaluation and mitigation strategies, or REMS. The REMS may include requirements for special labeling or medication guides for patients, special communication plans to health care professionals, and restrictions on distribution and use. Pursuant to the FDAAA, if the FDA makes the requisite findings, it might require that a new product be used only by physicians with specified specialized training, only in specified designated health care settings, or only in conjunction with special patient testing and monitoring. The legislation also included the following: requirements for providing the public information on ongoing clinical studies through a clinical study registry and for disclosing clinical study results to the public through such registry; renewed requirements for conducting clinical studies to generate information on the use of products in pediatric patients; and substantial new penalties, for example, for false or misleading consumer advertisements. Other proposals have been made to impose additional requirements on drug approvals, further expand post-approval requirements, and restrict sales and promotional activities. The new legislation, and the additional proposals if enacted, may make it more difficult or burdensome for us to obtain approval of our product candidates, any approvals we receive may be more restrictive or be subject to onerous post-approval requirements, our ability to successfully commercialize approved products may be hindered and our business may be harmed as a result. If any of our product candidates for which we receive regulatory approval does not achieve broad market acceptance, the revenue that we generate from its sales, if any, will be limited. The commercial success of our product candidates for which we obtain marketing approval from the FDA or other regulatory authorities will depend upon the acceptance of these products by the medical community, including physicians, patients and health care payors. The degree of market acceptance of any of our approved products will depend on a number of factors, including: • demonstration of clinical safety and efficacy compared to other products; • the relative convenience, ease of administration and acceptance by physicians and payors of varespladib in the treatment of acute coronary syndrome, A-623 in the treatment of lupus and A-001 in the prevention of acute chest syndrome associated with sickle cell disease; • the prevalence and severity of any adverse effects; • limitations or warnings contained in a product’s FDA-approved labeling; • availability of alternative treatments, including, in the case of varespladib, a number of competitive products being studied for anti-inflammatory benefits in patients with acute coronary syndrome or expected to be commercially launched in the near future; • pricing and cost-effectiveness; • the effectiveness of our or any future collaborators’ sales and marketing strategies; • our ability to obtain and maintain sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement from government health care programs, including Medicare and Medicaid; and • the willingness of patients to pay out-of-pocket in the absence of third-party coverage. 46 Table of Contents If our product candidates are approved but do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, health care payors and patients, we may not generate sufficient revenue from these products, and we may not become or remain profitable. In addition, our efforts to educate the medical community and third-party payors on the benefits of our product candidates may require significant resources and may never be successful. Our future success depends on our ability to retain our chief executive officer and other key executives and to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. We are highly dependent on Mr. Paul F. Truex, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Colin Hislop, our Senior Vice President and Chief Medical Officer and the other principal members of our executive team listed under “Executive Officers” in Part III of this report. The loss of the services of any of these persons might impede the achievement of our research, development and commercialization objectives. Recruiting and retaining qualified scientific personnel and possibly sales and marketing personnel will also be critical to our success. We may not be able to attract and retain these personnel on acceptable terms given the competition among numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for similar personnel. We also experience competition for the hiring of scientific personnel from universities and research institutions. Failure to succeed in clinical studies may make it more challenging to recruit and retain qualified scientific personnel. In addition, we rely on consultants and advisors, including scientific and clinical advisors, to assist us in formulating our research and development and commercialization strategy. Our consultants and advisors may be employed by employers other than us and may have commitments under consulting or advisory contracts with other entities that may limit their availability to us. Recently enacted and future legislation or regulatory reform of the health care system in the United States and foreign jurisdictions may affect our ability to sell our products profitably. Our ability to commercialize our future products successfully, alone or with collaborators, will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for the products will be available from government and health administration authorities, private health insurers and other third-party payors. The continuing efforts of the U.S. and foreign governments, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of health care services to contain or reduce health care costs may adversely affect our ability to set prices for our products which we believe are fair, and our ability to generate revenues and achieve and maintain profitability. Specifically, in both the United States and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the health care system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. In March 2010, President Obama signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, or collectively, the Health Care Reform Law, a sweeping law intended to broaden access to health insurance, reduce or constrain the growth of healthcare spending, enhance remedies against fraud and abuse, add new transparency requirements for healthcare and health insurance industries, impose new taxes and fees on the health industry and impose additional health policy reforms. We will not know the full effects of the Health Care Reform Law until applicable federal and state agencies issue regulations or guidance under the new law. Although it is too early to determine the effect of the Health Care Reform Law, the new law appears likely to continue the pressure on pharmaceutical pricing, especially under the Medicare program, and also may increase our regulatory burdens and operating costs. We expect further federal and state proposals and health care reforms to continue to be proposed by legislators, which could limit the prices that can be charged for the products we develop and may limit our commercial opportunity. Also in the United States, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, also called the Medicare Modernization Act, or MMA, changed the way Medicare covers and pays for pharmaceutical products. The legislation expanded Medicare coverage for drug purchases by the elderly and introduced a new reimbursement methodology based on average sales prices for drugs. In addition, this legislation authorized Medicare Part D prescription drug plans to use formularies where they can limit the number of drugs that will be covered in any therapeutic class. As a result of this legislation and the expansion of federal coverage of drug products, we expect that there will be additional pressure to contain and reduce costs. These cost reduction initiatives and other provisions of this legislation could decrease the coverage and price that we receive for any approved products and could seriously harm our business. While the MMA applies only to drug benefits for Medicare beneficiaries, private payors often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting 47 Table of Contents their own reimbursement rates, and any reduction in reimbursement that results from the MMA may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors. The continuing efforts of government and other third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care through various means may limit our commercial opportunity. It will be time-consuming and expensive for us to go through the process of seeking reimbursement from Medicare and private payors. Our products may not be considered cost-effective, and government and third-party private health insurance coverage and reimbursement may not be available to patients for any of our future products or sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a competitive and profitable basis. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by the MMA, the Health Care Reform Law, and additional prescription drug coverage legislation, by the possible effect of this legislation on amounts that private insurers will pay and by other health care reforms that may be enacted or adopted in the future. In addition, increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States will continue to put pressure on the pricing of pharmaceutical products. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price that we or any potential collaborators could receive for any of our future products and could adversely affect our profitability. In some foreign countries, including major markets in the European Union and Japan, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take six to 12 months or longer after the receipt of regulatory marketing approval for a product. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical study that compares the cost-effectiveness of our product candidates to other available therapies. Such pharmacoeconomic studies can be costly and the results uncertain. Our business could be harmed if reimbursement of our products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels. We face potential product liability exposure, and, if successful claims are brought against us, we may incur substantial liability. The use of our product candidates in clinical studies and the sale of any products for which we obtain marketing approval expose us to the risk of product liability claims. Product liability claims might be brought against us by consumers, health care providers, pharmaceutical companies or others selling or otherwise coming into contact with our products. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we could incur substantial liabilities. In addition, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in: • impairment of our business reputation; • withdrawal of clinical study participants; • costs of related litigation; • distraction of management’s attention from our primary business; • substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants; • the inability to commercialize our product candidates; and • decreased demand for our product candidates, if approved for commercial sale. Our product liability insurance coverage for our clinical studies may not be sufficient to reimburse us for all expenses or losses we may suffer. Moreover, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive, and, in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability. If and when we obtain marketing approval for any of our product candidates, we intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products; however, we may be unable to obtain this product liability insurance on commercially reasonable terms. On occasion, large judgments have been awarded in class action lawsuits based on drugs that had unanticipated adverse effects. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could cause our stock price to decline and, if judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could decrease our cash and adversely affect our business. If we use hazardous and biological materials in a manner that causes injury or violates applicable law, we may be liable for damages. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of potentially hazardous substances, including toxic chemical and biological materials. We could be held liable for any contamination, injury or other damages resulting from these hazardous substances. In addition, our operations produce hazardous waste products. 48 Table of Contents While third parties are responsible for disposal of our hazardous waste, we could be liable under environmental laws for any required cleanup of sites at which our waste is disposed. Federal, state, foreign and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these hazardous materials. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations at any time, or if they change, we may be subject to criminal sanctions and substantial civil liabilities, which may harm our business. Even if we continue to comply with all applicable laws and regulations regarding hazardous materials, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and our resultant liability for any injuries or other damages caused by these accidents. We rely on third parties to conduct, supervise and monitor our clinical studies, and those third parties may perform in an unsatisfactory manner, such as by failing to meet established deadlines for the completion of these clinical studies, or may harm our business if they suffer a catastrophic event. We rely on third parties such as CROs, medical institutions and clinical investigators to enroll qualified patients and conduct, supervise and monitor our clinical studies. Our reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities. Our reliance on these third parties, however, does not relieve us of our regulatory responsibilities, including ensuring that our clinical studies are conducted in accordance with good clinical practices, or GCP, and the investigational plan and protocols contained in the relevant regulatory application, such as the investigational new drug application, or IND. In addition, the CROs with whom we contract may not complete activities on schedule, or may not conduct our preclinical studies or clinical studies in accordance with regulatory requirements or our clinical study design. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, our efforts to obtain regulatory approvals for, and to commercialize, our product candidates may be delayed or prevented. In addition, if a catastrophe such as an earthquake, fire, flood or power loss should affect one of the third parties on which we rely, our business prospects could be harmed. For example, if a central laboratory holding all of our clinical study samples were to suffer a catastrophic loss of their facility, we would lose all of our samples and would have to repeat our studies. Any failure by our third-party manufacturers on which we rely to produce our preclinical and clinical drug supplies and on which we intend to rely to produce commercial supplies of any approved product candidates may delay or impair our ability to commercialize our product candidates. We have relied upon a small number of third-party manufacturers and active pharmaceutical ingredient formulators for the manufacture of our material for preclinical and clinical testing purposes and intend to continue to do so in the future. We also expect to rely upon third parties to produce materials required for the commercial production of our product candidates if we succeed in obtaining necessary regulatory approvals. If we are unable to arrange for third-party manufacturing sources, or to do so on commercially reasonable terms, we may not be able to complete development of our product candidates or market them. Reliance on third-party manufacturers entails risks to which we would not be subject if we manufactured product candidates ourselves, including reliance on the third party for regulatory compliance and quality assurance, the possibility of breach of the manufacturing agreement by the third party because of factors beyond our control (including a failure to synthesize and manufacture our product candidates in accordance with our product specifications) and the possibility of termination or nonrenewal of the agreement by the third party, based on its own business priorities, at a time that is costly or damaging to us. In addition, the FDA and other regulatory authorities require that our product candidates be manufactured according to cGMP and similar foreign standards. Any failure by our third-party manufacturers to comply with cGMP or failure to scale up manufacturing processes, including any failure to deliver sufficient quantities of product candidates in a timely manner, could lead to a delay in, or failure to obtain, regulatory approval of any of our product candidates. In addition, such failure could be the basis for action by the FDA to withdraw approvals for product candidates previously granted to us and for other regulatory action, including recall or seizure, total or partial suspension of production or injunction. As part of our discussions to reactivate our US IND for A-623, we received a request from the FDA for additional information regarding the characterization and qualification of the already manufactured vials of A-623 and plans for any future manufactured vials of A-623 that we intend to use in clinical studies. In response to this request, we provided the FDA additional analytical data regarding all lots of previously manufactured A-623 to be utilized in the current PEARL-SC clinical study. In addition, since new vials of A-623 will be manufactured at a new facility by our partner Merck Biomanufacturing Network (recently acquired by Fujifilm ), we are preparing and will 49 Table of Contents submit a comparability protocol to the FDA to establish appropriate comparability and specifications requirements of newly manufactured vials of A-623 to be included in any future clinical studies. We anticipate submitting this protocol to the FDA in Q2 2011. Should the FDA not agree with our comparability protocol proposal or if we are unable to agree on the specifications for future A-623 manufacturing, further clinical development of A-623 beyond the PEARL-SC clinical study would be substantially delayed and we would incur substantial additional expense. We rely on our manufacturers to purchase from third-party suppliers the materials necessary to produce our product candidates for our clinical studies. There are a small number of suppliers for certain capital equipment and raw materials that we use to manufacture our drugs. Such suppliers may not sell these raw materials to our manufacturers at the times we need them or on commercially reasonable terms. We do not have any control over the process or timing of the acquisition of these raw materials by our manufacturers. Moreover, we currently do not have any agreements for the commercial production of these raw materials. Although we generally do not begin a clinical study unless we believe we have a sufficient supply of a product candidate to complete the clinical study, any significant delay in the supply of a product candidate or the raw material components thereof for an ongoing clinical study due to the need to replace a third-party manufacturer could considerably delay completion of our clinical studies, product testing and potential regulatory approval of our product candidates. If our manufacturers or we are unable to purchase these raw materials after regulatory approval has been obtained for our product candidates, the commercial launch of our product candidates would be delayed or there would be a shortage in supply of such product candidates, which would impair our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our product candidates. Because of the complex nature of our compounds, our manufacturers may not be able to manufacture our compounds at a cost or in quantities or in a timely manner necessary to make commercially successful products. If we successfully commercialize any of our drugs, we may be required to establish large-scale commercial manufacturing capabilities. In addition, as our drug development pipeline increases and matures, we will have a greater need for clinical study and commercial manufacturing capacity. We have no experience manufacturing pharmaceutical products on a commercial scale and some of these suppliers will need to increase their scale of production to meet our projected needs for commercial manufacturing, the satisfaction of which on a timely basis may not be met. If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to market and sell our product candidates, we may be unable to generate any revenue. We do not currently have an organization for the sales, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products and the cost of establishing and maintaining such an organization may exceed the cost-effectiveness of doing so. In order to market any products that may be approved by the FDA, we must build our sales, marketing, managerial and other non-technical capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services. If we are unable to establish adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, whether independently or with third parties, we may not be able to generate product revenue and may not become profitable. We will be competing with many companies that currently have extensive and well-funded marketing and sales operations. Without an internal team or the support of a third party to perform marketing and sales functions, we may be unable to compete successfully against these more established companies. Guidelines and recommendations published by various organizations may adversely affect the use of any products for which we may receive regulatory approval. Government agencies issue regulations and guidelines directly applicable to us and to our product candidates. In addition, professional societies, practice management groups, private health or science foundations and organizations involved in various diseases from time to time publish guidelines or recommendations to the medical and patient communities. These various sorts of recommendations may relate to such matters as product usage and use of related or competing therapies. For example, organizations like the American Heart Association have made recommendations about therapies in the cardiovascular therapeutics market. Changes to these recommendations or other guidelines advocating alternative therapies could result in decreased use of any products for which we may receive regulatory approval, which may adversely affect our results of operations. 50 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If our or our licensors’ patent positions do not adequately protect our product candidates or any future products, others could compete with us more directly, which would harm our business. As of the date of this report and as described in the section entitled “Business — Intellectual Property” on page 25, we hold a total of four pending U.S. non-provisional patent applications, two pending U.S. provisional patent applications and two pending Patent Cooperation Treaty, or PCT, patent applications. Another PCT application has entered the national phase in the European Patent Office, the Eurasian Patent Organization and 17 other countries. We have also entered into exclusive license agreements for certain composition of matter, method of use and method of making patents and patent applications for certain of our development compounds. These license agreements encompass (i) 13 U.S. patents, one pending U.S. non-provisional patent application, five European, or EP, patents, one pending EP patent application, 20 non-EP foreign patents and three pending non-EP foreign patent applications relating to varespladib and A-001; (ii) more than 30 U.S. patents, one pending U.S. non-provisional patent application, six EP patents, one pending EP patent application, 13 issued non-EP foreign patents and one pending non-EP foreign patent applications relating to other sPLA2 inhibiting compounds including A-003; and (iii) two U.S. patents, one pending U.S. non-provisional patent application, one EP patent, two pending EP patent applications, eleven non-EP foreign patents and 13 non-EP foreign patent applications relating to A-623. Our commercial success will depend in part on our and our licensors’ ability to obtain additional patents and protect our existing patent positions, particularly those patents for which we have secured exclusive rights, as well as our ability to maintain adequate protection of other intellectual property for our technologies, product candidates and any future products in the United States and other countries. If we or our licensors do not adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may be able to use our technologies and erode or negate any competitive advantage we may have, which could materially harm our business, negatively affect our position in the marketplace, limit our ability to commercialize our product candidates and delay or render impossible our achievement of profitability. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and we may encounter significant problems in protecting our proprietary rights in these countries. The patent positions of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, including our patent position, involve complex legal and factual questions, and, therefore, validity and enforceability cannot be predicted with certainty. Patents may be challenged, deemed unenforceable, invalidated or circumvented. We and our licensors will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies, product candidates and any future products are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain, and we cannot ensure that: • we or our licensors were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications; • we or our licensors were the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others will not independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; • any of our or our licensors’ pending patent applications will result in issued patents; • any of our or our licensors’ patents will be valid or enforceable; • any patents issued to us or our licensors and collaborators will provide a basis for commercially viable products, will provide us with any competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties; • we will develop additional proprietary technologies or product candidates that are patentable; or • the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on our business. We may be unable to adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. We rely on trade secrets to protect our proprietary know-how and technological advances, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers and other advisors to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information. These agreements may 51 Table of Contents not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights. Failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could enable competitors to use our proprietary information to develop products that compete with our products or cause additional, material adverse effects upon our competitive business position. We license patent rights from third-party owners. If we, or such owners, do not properly maintain or enforce the patents underlying such licenses, our competitive position and business prospects will be harmed. We have obtained exclusive, worldwide licenses, except for Japan, of the composition of matter, methods of making and methods of use for certain sPLA2 compounds from Eli Lilly and Shionogi & Co., Ltd. In addition, we are party to a license agreement with Amgen that provides exclusive and worldwide rights to develop and commercialize A-623, a novel BAFF inhibitor, as well as non-exclusive rights to certain technology relating to peptibody compositions and formulations. We may enter into additional licenses to third-party intellectual property in the future. We depend in part on our licensors to protect the proprietary rights covering our in-licensed sPLA2 compounds and A-623, respectively. Our licensors are responsible for maintaining certain issued patents and prosecuting certain patent applications. We have limited, if any, control over the amount or timing of resources that our licensors devote on our behalf or the priority they place on maintaining these patent rights and prosecuting these patent applications to our advantage. Our licensors may also be notified of alleged infringement and be sued for infringement of third-party patents or other proprietary rights. We may have limited, if any, control or involvement over the defense of these claims, and our licensors could be subject to injunctions and temporary or permanent exclusionary orders in the United States or other countries. Our licensors are not obligated to defend or assist in our defense against third-party claims of infringement. We have limited, if any, control over the amount or timing of resources, if any, that our licensors devote on our behalf or the priority they place on defense of such third-party claims of infringement. Our success will depend in part on the ability of us or our licensors to obtain, maintain and enforce patent protection for their intellectual property, in particular, those patents to which we have secured exclusive rights. We or our licensors may not successfully prosecute the patent applications which we have licensed. Even if patents issue in respect of these patent applications, we or our licensors may fail to maintain these patents, may determine not to pursue litigation against other companies that are infringing these patents or may pursue such litigation less aggressively than we would. Without protection for the intellectual property we license, other companies might be able to offer substantially identical products for sale, which could adversely affect our competitive business position and harm our business prospects. If we do not obtain protection under the Hatch-Waxman Act and similar foreign legislation to extend our licensed patent terms and to obtain market exclusivity for our product candidates, our business will be materially harmed. The United States Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, more commonly known as the “Hatch-Waxman Act,” provides for an extension of patent term for drug compounds for a period of up to five years to compensate for time spent in the regulatory approval process. Assuming we gain a five-year patent term extension for each of our current product candidates in clinical development, and that we continue to have rights under our license agreements with respect to these product candidates, we would have exclusive rights to varespladib’s U.S. “new chemical entity” patent (the primary patent covering the compound as a new composition of matter) until 2019 and to A-623’s U.S. new chemical entity patent until 2027. In Europe, similar legislative enactments allow patent terms in the European Union to be extended for up to five years through the grant of a Supplementary Protection Certificate. Assuming we gain such a five-year extension for each of our current product candidates in clinical development, and that we continue to have rights under our license agreements with respect to these product candidates, we would have exclusive rights to varespladib’s European new chemical entity patents until 2020 and to A-623’s European new chemical entity patents until 2027. In addition, since varespladib has not been previously approved in the United States, varespladib could be eligible for up to five years of New Chemical 52 Table of Contents Entity, or NCE, exclusivity from the FDA. NCE exclusivity would prevent the FDA from approving any generic competitor following NDA approval independent of the patent status of varespladib. Further, since A-623 has not been previously approved, A-623 could be eligible for 12 years of data exclusivity from the FDA. During the data exclusivity period, competitors are barred from relying on the innovator biologic’s safety and efficacy data to gain approval. Similarly, the European Union provides that companies who receive regulatory approval for a new small molecule compound or biologic will have a 10-year period of data exclusivity for that compound or biologic (with the possibility of a further one-year extension) in most EU countries, beginning on the date of such European regulatory approval, regardless of when the European new chemical entity patent covering such compound expires. A generic version of the approved drug may not be marketed or sold during such market exclusivity period. However, there is no assurance that we will receive the extensions of our patents or other exclusive rights available under the Hatch-Waxman Act or similar foreign legislation. If we fail to receive such Hatch-Waxman extensions or marketing exclusivity rights or if we receive extensions that are materially shorter than expected, our ability to prevent competitors from manufacturing, marketing and selling generic versions of our products will be materially harmed. Our current patent positions and license portfolio may not include all patent rights needed for the full development and commercialization of our product candidates. We cannot be sure that patent rights we may need in the future will be available for license to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We typically develop our product candidates using compounds for which we have in-licensed and original composition of matter patents and patents that claim the activities and methods for such compounds’ production and use to the extent known at that time. As we learn more about the mechanisms of action and new methods of manufacture and use of these product candidates, we may file additional patent applications for these new inventions or we may need to ask our licensors to file them. We may also need to license additional patent rights or other rights on compounds, treatment methods or manufacturing processes because we learn that we need such rights during the continuing development of our product candidates. Although our in-licensed and original patents may prevent others from making, using or selling similar products, they do not ensure that we will not infringe the patent rights of third parties. We may not be aware of all patents or patent applications that may impact our ability to make, use or sell any of our product candidates or proposed product candidates. For example, because we sometimes identify the mechanism of action or molecular target of a given product candidate after identifying its composition of matter and therapeutic use, we may not be aware until the mechanism or target is further elucidated that a third party has an issued or pending patent claiming biological activities or targets that may cover our product candidate. U.S. patent applications filed after November 29, 2000 are confidential in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office for the first 18 months after such applications’ earliest priority date, and patent offices in non-U.S. countries often publish patent applications for the first time six months or more after filing. Furthermore, we may not be aware of published or granted conflicting patent rights. Any conflicts resulting from patent applications and patents of others could significantly reduce the coverage of our patents and limit our ability to obtain meaningful patent protection. If others obtain patents with conflicting claims, we may need to obtain licenses to these patents or to develop or obtain alternative technology. We may not be able to obtain any licenses or other rights to patents, technology or know-how from third parties necessary to conduct our business as described in this report and such licenses, if available at all, may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. Any failure to obtain such licenses could delay or prevent us from developing or commercializing our drug candidates or proposed product candidates, which would harm our business. Litigation or patent interference proceedings may be necessarily brought against third parties, as discussed below, to enforce any of our patents or other proprietary rights or to determine the scope and validity or enforceability of the proprietary rights of such third parties. Litigation regarding patents, patent applications and other proprietary rights may be expensive and time consuming. If we are involved in such litigation, it could cause delays in bringing product candidates to market and harm our ability to operate. Our commercial success will depend in part on our ability to manufacture, use, sell and offer to sell our product candidates and proposed product candidates without infringing patents or other proprietary rights of third parties. Although we are not currently aware of any litigation or other proceedings or third-party claims of intellectual 53 Table of Contents property infringement related to our product candidates, the pharmaceutical industry is characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. Other parties may obtain patents in the future and allege that the use of our technologies infringes these patent claims or that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. Likewise, third parties may challenge or infringe upon our or our licensors’ existing or future patents. Proceedings involving our patents or patent applications or those of others could result in adverse decisions regarding the patentability of our inventions relating to our product candidates or the enforceability, validity or scope of protection offered by our patents relating to our product candidates. Even if we are successful in these proceedings, we may incur substantial costs and divert management time and attention in pursuing these proceedings. If we are unable to avoid infringing the patent rights of others, we may be required to seek a license, defend an infringement action or challenge the validity of the patents in court. Patent litigation is costly and time-consuming. We may not have sufficient resources to bring these actions to a successful conclusion. In addition, if we do not obtain a license, develop or obtain non-infringing technology, fail to defend an infringement action successfully or have our patents declared invalid, we may incur substantial monetary damages; encounter significant delays in bringing our product candidates to market; or be precluded from participating in the manufacture, use or sale of our product candidates or methods of treatment requiring licenses. Risks Related to the Securities Markets and Investment in Our Common Stock Market volatility may affect our stock price and the value of your investment. The market price for our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile. In addition, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, most of which we cannot predict or control, including: • plans for, progress in and results from clinical studies for varespladib, A-623, A-001 and our other product candidates; • announcements of new products, services or technologies, commercial relationships, acquisitions or other events by us or our competitors; • developments concerning proprietary rights, including those pertaining to patents held by Eli Lilly and Shionogi & Co., Ltd. concerning our sPLA2 inhibitors and Amgen concerning A-623; • failure of any of our product candidates, if approved, to achieve commercial success; • fluctuations in stock market prices and trading volumes of securities of similar companies; • general market conditions and overall fluctuations in U.S. equity markets; • variations in our operating results, or the operating results of our competitors; • changes in our financial guidance or securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance; • changes in accounting principles; • sales of large blocks of our common stock, including sales by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders; • additions or departures of any of our key personnel; • announcements related to litigation; • changing legal or regulatory developments in the United States and other countries; and • discussion of us or our stock price by the financial press and in online investor communities. Although our common stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ Global Market, our securities have been relatively thinly traded. Investor trading patterns could serve to exacerbate the volatility of the price of the stock. Accordingly, it may be difficult to sell shares of common stock quickly without significantly depressing the value of the stock. Unless we are successful in developing continued investor interest in our stock, sales of our stock could result in major fluctuations in the price of the stock. In addition, the stock market in general, and The NASDAQ Global Market in particular, have experienced substantial price and volume volatility that is often seemingly unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the 54 Table of Contents trading price of our common stock to decline. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company after a period of volatility in the market price of its common stock. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Any securities litigation claims brought against us could result in substantial expenses and the diversion of our management’s attention from our business. Because a small number of our existing stockholders own a majority of our voting stock, your ability to influence corporate matters will be limited. Our executive officers, directors and greater than 5% stockholders, in the aggregate, own approximately 75% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, such persons, acting together, will have the ability to control our management and affairs and substantially all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and approval of any significant transaction. These persons will also have the ability to control our management and business affairs. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us, or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our business, even if such a transaction would benefit other stockholders. Future sales of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline. As of December 31, 2010, there were 32,880,353 shares of our common stock outstanding. In addition, as of December 31, 2010, we had outstanding options to purchase shares of our common stock and restricted stock units of 1,578,491 that, if exercised or released, will result in these additional shares becoming available for sale. A large portion of these shares and outstanding equity awards are held by a small number of persons and investment funds. Sales by these stockholders or option holders of a substantial number of shares could significantly reduce the market price of our common stock. Moreover, certain holders of shares of common stock will have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering the shares they currently hold, or to include these shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. We have registered all common stock that we may issue under our Amended and Restated 2010 Stock Option and Incentive Plan (the “2010 Plan”) and our Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the “ESPP”). As of February 28, 2011, an aggregate of 1,778,261 shares of our common stock has been reserved for future issuance under the 2010 Plan, plus any shares reserved and unissued under our 2005 Equity Incentive Plan, and an aggregate of 350,000 shares has been reserved for future issuance under our ESPP. These shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to the lock-up agreements referred to above. If a large number of these shares are sold in the public market, the sales could reduce the trading price of our common stock. We may need to raise additional capital to fund our operations, which may cause dilution to our existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish rights. We may seek additional capital through a combination of private and public equity offerings, debt financings and collaboration, strategic and licensing arrangements. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, your ownership interest may be diluted, and the terms may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect your rights as a stockholder. Debt financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions such as incurring debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. If we raise additional funds through collaboration, strategic alliance and licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies or product candidates or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. Operating as a public company increases our expenses and administrative burden. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, our administrative staff will be required to perform additional tasks. For example, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and The NASDAQ Global Market, impose various requirements on public companies, including establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and changes in corporate governance practices. We must also bear all of the internal and external costs of preparing and distributing periodic public reports in compliance with our obligations under the securities laws. 55 Table of Contents In particular, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. Commencing in 2011, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our compliance with Section 404 will require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management time on compliance-related issues. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, our stock price could decline, and we could face sanctions, delisting or investigations by The NASDAQ Global Market, or other material adverse effects on our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock so any returns will be limited to the value of our stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividend on our common stock. We currently anticipate that we will retain future earnings for the development, operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. Any return to stockholders will therefore be limited to the value of their stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may delay or prevent an acquisition of us or a change in our management. These provisions include: • a classified and staggered board of directors whose members can only be dismissed for cause; • the prohibition on actions by written consent of our stockholders; • the limitation on who may call a special meeting of stockholders; • the establishment of advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings; • the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which would increase the number of outstanding shares and could thwart a takeover attempt; and • the requirement of at least 75% of the outstanding common stock to amend any of the foregoing provisions. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which limits the ability of stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock to merge or combine with us. Although we believe these provisions collectively provide for an opportunity to obtain greater value for stockholders by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate with our board of directors, they would apply even if an offer rejected by our board were considered beneficial by some stockholders. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards may be subject to limitation and may result in increased future tax liability to us. Generally, a change of more than 50% in the ownership of a corporation’s stock, by value, over a three-year period constitutes an ownership change for U.S. federal income tax purposes. An ownership change may limit a company’s ability to use its net operating loss carryforwards attributable to the period prior to such change. We have not performed a detailed analysis to determine whether an ownership change under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code has occurred after each of our previous private placements of preferred stock and convertible debt, or our previous issuances of common stock, which if sufficient, taking into account prior or future shifts in our ownership over a three-year period, could cause us to undergo an ownership change. As a result, if we earn net taxable income, our ability to use our pre-change net operating loss carryforwards to offset U.S. federal taxable income may become subject to limitations, which could potentially result in increased future tax liability to us. 56 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 