ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, future performance and forward-looking statements are affected by general industry and market conditions and growth rates, general economic and political conditions in the United States, Canada and worldwide, competition, interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations and other events. The following items are representative of the risks, uncertainties and other conditions that may impact our business. Risks Related to our Business, Products and Markets We have incurred substantial net losses since inception and may never achieve profitability. Since we commenced operations in 2002, and through March 31, 2013, we incurred substantial losses, including a net loss of $8,258,594 for the twelve month period ended March 31, 2013. As of March 31, 2013, our losses have resulted in an accumulated deficit of $76,004,171. The future success of our business will depend on the success of the Scotts Miracle-Gro partnership, our ability to profitably expand sales of our AeroGarden indoor garden systems, seed kits and accessory products, and develop new product extensions and applications. We are subject to many of the risks common to developing enterprises, including undercapitalization, cash shortages, limited financial and other resources, and insufficient scale to be self-sustaining. There is no assurance that we will ever attain profitability. Our financial condition may limit our ability to borrow funds or to raise additional equity as may be required to fund our future operations. Our ability to borrow funds or raise additional equity may be limited by our financial condition. In addition, a failure to obtain additional funding to support our working capital and operating requirements could prevent us from making expenditures that are needed to allow us to maintain our operations. We may raise additional capital by renewing our current working capital facility at its maturity, in order to support our inventory and other operating requirements during the fiscal year ending March 31, 2014. In the event we have working capital needs and cannot raise this additional funding, we will have to scale back on our operating plans for the current and future fiscal years. There can be no assurance that we will be able to secure the additional capital in an amount and in time to support all of our operating plans. As we grow our sales into the retail channel and increase sales through individual retailers, the loss or significant reductions in orders from our top retail customers could have a material adverse impact on our business. In Fiscal 2013, our net sales to two retail customers totaled 74.0% of our total net sales to retailers. The loss of one of these significant customers, or a significant decline in orders could materially affect our sales of indoor garden systems, seed kits and accessories, and could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, and financial condition. We do not have long-term sales agreements with, or other contractual assurances as to future sales to, any of our current or planned major retail customers. In addition, our business may be negatively affected by changes in the policies of our retailers, such as payment terms, limitation to shelf space, price demands and other conditions. 9 Table of Contents Our recent inability to invest in the growth of our database of direct-to-consumer names may limit our ability to maintain or grow this sales channel. Our direct response sales represented 86.0% of our total net sales during Fiscal 2013. Our marketing activities via email and catalogs focus on maximizing the lifetime value of AeroGrow customers through repeat sales of our seed kits, light bulbs and accessories. Our capital-constrained lack of investment in growing the database of potential customers could materially affect our sales of indoor garden systems, seed kits and accessories, and therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, and financial condition. Our future success is completely dependent on our ability to market our indoor garden systems, seed kits and accessory products and generate consumer acceptance on a broader scale. We have introduced our indoor garden systems and seed kits as new products to consumer markets unfamiliar with their use and benefits. Although we believe that we have penetrated only a small portion of the potential market for our products, our marketing efforts may not generate widespread consumer adoption. If our marketing strategies fail to attract customers, our product sales may not produce future revenue sufficient to meet our operating expenses or fund our future operations. Our business, prospects, results of operations, and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to recruit, train and retain key personnel necessary to operate our business, our ability to successfully manage our business and develop and market our products may be harmed. To maintain our business position, we will need to attract, retain, and motivate highly skilled design, development, management, accounting, sales, merchandising, marketing, and customer service personnel. Competition for many of these types of personnel can be intense, depending on general economic conditions, alternative employment options, and job location. As a result, we may be unable to successfully attract or retain qualified personnel. Additionally, any of our officers or employees can terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of any key employee, or our inability to attract or retain other qualified employees, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, and financial condition. A worsening of the economy, particularly in the United States and Canada, could materially adversely affect our business. The success of our business operations depends significantly on consumer confidence and spending, which deteriorated during the recent worldwide economic downturn. A re-occurrence of the economic downturn and the consequent impact on consumer spending, particularly in the United States and Canada, could adversely impact our revenue, ability to market our products, build customer loyalty, or otherwise implement our business strategy. In such a scenario, we would experience a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, and financial condition. As a result of the economic downturn, decline in consumer spending and the consequent impact on the sales of our products, we restructured our operations and implemented a substantial workforce reduction. These actions could adversely impact the morale and performance of our remaining employees and our ability to hire new personnel. Our business was adversely impacted by the deterioration in the global economy and the consequent impact on our various channels of distribution. We restructured our business operations in order to re-size our overhead costs and streamline our distribution, fulfillment, and manufacturing operations. This resulted in a substantial decrease in the number of our full-time employees. In addition, during Fiscal 2012 we instituted a temporary furlough program that impacted most employees, and instituted a salary deferral program for our senior management. In total, these actions could have unintended impact on our remaining employees, could lead to a decline in employee morale, and could lead to a loss of additional personnel over and above the level desired by the Company. In the event of such employee attrition, we may not be able to replace the lost personnel on a timely basis, or with individuals having the same level of skills. In either case, our business prospects, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents Our current or future manufacturers could fail to fulfill our orders for indoor garden systems, which would disrupt our business, increase our costs, and could potentially cause us to lose our market. We currently depend on three contract manufacturers in China to produce our indoor garden systems. These manufacturers could fail to produce the indoor garden system to our specifications or in a workmanlike manner and may not deliver the systems on a timely basis. Our manufacturers must also obtain inventories of the necessary parts and tools for production. Although we own the tools and dies used by our manufacturers, our manufacturers operate in China. As a result, our manufacturers may be subject to business risks that fall outside our control, including but not limited to, political, currency, and regulatory risks, each of which may affect the manufacturer’s ability to fulfill our orders for indoor garden systems. For example, a labor strike in the ports of Las Angeles and Long Beach delayed the delivery of AeroGarden inventory during the critical pre-Christmas season and caused a decline in sales during the third and fourth quarters of Fiscal 2013. In addition, weather or natural disasters in China could disrupt our supply of product. Any change in manufacturers could disrupt or delay our ability to fulfill orders for indoor garden systems while we search for alternative supply sources, provide specifications, and test initial production. Our business prospects, results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. Our revenue and level of business activity are highly seasonal, requiring us to staff our operations, incur overhead and marketing costs, purchase and manufacture inventory, and incur other operating costs in advance of having firm customer orders for our products. A material variance in actual orders relative to anticipated orders could have an adverse impact on our business. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, approximately 49.3% of our total net sales occurred during four consecutive calendar months (October through January). We must therefore estimate sales in advance of the anticipated peak months and operate our business during the balance of the year in such a way as to insure that we can meet the demand for our products during the peak months. This requires us to incur significant operating, marketing, and overhead expenses, and to utilize cash and other capital resources to invest in inventory in advance of having certainty as to the ultimate level of demand for our product during the peak months. Shortfalls in the supply of our products could result in a significant loss of revenue due to lack of adequate product inventory. For example, a labor strike in the ports of Las Angeles and Long Beach delayed the delivery of AeroGarden inventory during the critical pre-Christmas season and caused a decline in sales during the third and fourth quarters of Fiscal 2013. Alternatively, a shortfall in actual demand for our products, relative to forecast, during peak months could cause us to liquidate excess inventory at a loss or at substantially lower margins. In any of these cases, we may not generate enough revenue to cover expenses incurred throughout the balance of the year. Our business prospects, results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. We are highly reliant upon a single distribution and assembly facility. Any material disruption to the operation of this facility could adversely affect our business. All of our North American fulfillment and distribution operations, and the entirety of our seed kit assembly operations are located in a third-party-managed facility based in Mexico, Missouri. Any material disruption to the operation of this facility, whether caused by internal or external factors could have a material adverse effect on our business prospect s, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on third-party providers in our manufacturing, warehouse, distribution, order processing, and fulfillment operations. If these parties are unwilling to continue providing services to us, or are unable to adequately perform such services for us on a cost effective basis, our business could be materially harmed. We engage third parties to perform certain critical functions supporting our business operations. Any disruption in our relationship with any of our vendors could cause significant disruption to our business and we may not be able to locate another party that can provide comparable services in a manner that is timely, consistent with our business plan, or on acceptable commercial terms. Our business prospects, results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. We may face significant competition, and if we are unable to compete effectively, our sales may be adversely affected. We believe that our complete indoor garden systems offer significant benefits over traditional hydroponic industry products. However, there are companies in a variety of related markets, including but not limited to, consumer electronics, commercial hydroponics, gardening wholesale, and soil-based gardening that are larger, better funded, have more recognizable brand names, and have experience in our channels of distribution. These companies could potentially decide to develop products to compete with our products. These companies could use hydroponic technologies, and could achieve better consumer acceptance. The success of any competing products may have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, results of operations and financial condition. 11 Table of Contents Increases in energy prices, resulting from general economic conditions, or other factors, may raise our cost of goods sold and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Energy costs, especially gasoline and fuel costs, are significant expenses in the delivery of our products. Increased costs resulting from general economic conditions, war, acts of nature, or other factors, may result in declining margins and operating results if market conditions prevent us from passing these increased costs on to our customers through timely price increases on our products. Our business prospects, results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. Our current AeroGarden manufacturers are located in China and therefore our product costs may be subject to fluctuations in the value of the dollar against the Chinese currency and increases in Chinese labor rates. Although we purchase our AeroGarden products in U.S. dollars, the prices charged by our factories are predicated upon their cost for components, labor and overhead. Therefore, changes in the valuation of the U.S. dollar in relation to the Chinese currency may cause our manufacturers to raise prices of our products, which could reduce our profit margins and have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, results of operations and financial condition. If our indoor garden systems fail to perform properly, our business could suffer with increased costs and reduced income. From our inception through March 31, 2013, we have sold approximately 1.1 million AeroGardens and have provided a limited warranty with each garden sold. In addition, our indoor garden systems are “guaranteed to grow.” We therefore may be required to replace or repair products or refund the purchase price to consumers. Failure of our products to meet expectations could damage our reputation, decrease sales, increase costs related to returns and repairs, delay market acceptance of our products, result in unpaid accounts receivable, and divert our resources to remedy the malfunctions. The occurrence of any of these events would have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, results of operations and financial condition. From time to time, we may be subject to litigation that, if decided adversely to us, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. From time to time, we are a party to various litigation matters, in most cases involving ordinary and routine claims incidental to our business. We cannot estimate with certainty our ultimate legal and financial liability with respect to such litigation. Although we do not believe that any current litigation poses a material threat to our business, defense of any lawsuits or proceedings, even if successful, may require management to spend a substantial time and attention on the part of our management personnel that otherwise would be spent on other aspects of our business, and may requires the expenditure of significant amounts for legal fees and other related costs. Settlement of lawsuits also may result in significant payments and modifications to our operations. In addition, we also may be subject to adverse publicity as a result of litigation. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, and financial condition. Risks Related to the Market for our Securities The market price of our shares may fluctuate greatly. Investors in AeroGrow bear the risk that they will not recover their investment. Currently, trading in our common stock is limited, and the price per share is likely to be influenced by the price at which and the amount of shares that selling security holders are attempting to sell at any time. This could cause our stock price to decline. Common stock such as ours may be subject to the activities of persons engaged in short selling securities, which generally has the effect of driving the price down. In addition, the common stock of emerging growth companies is typically subject to high price and volume volatility. Therefore, the price of our common stock has fluctuated, and may continue to fluctuate, widely. A full and stable trading market for our common stock may never develop and, as a result, stockholders may not be able to sell their shares at the time they elect, if at all. 12 Table of Contents There may be substantial sales of our common stock by existing security holders which could cause the price of our stock to decline. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market or the perception that such sales might occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and could impair the value of an investment in our common stock and our ability to raise equity capital in the future. As of March 31, 2013, we had 5,904,877, common shares issued and outstanding. In April 22, 2013 (during the first quarter of the fiscal year 2014), we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with SMG Growing Media, Inc, a wholly owned subsidiary of The Scotts Miracle-Gro Company, a worldwide marketer of branded consumer lawn and garden products (“Scotts Miracle-Gro”). Pursuant to the Securities Purchase Agreement, Scotts Miracle-Gro acquired 2,649,007 shares of the Company’s Series B Convertible Preferred Stock and a warrant to purchase shares of the Company’s common stock (For further information on the strategic alliance with Scotts Miracle-Gro, please see Note 8 “Subsequent Events” to our financial statements). Sales of our common stock by security holders, or even the appearance that such holders may make such sales, may limit the market for our common stock or depress any trading market volume and price before other investors are able to sell the common stock. Moreover, a number of shareholders have held their investment for a substantial period of time and may desire to sell their shares, which could drive down the price of our common stock. We can issue debt securities and shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could adversely affect the rights of common stockholders. Our Articles of Incorporation allow our Board of Directors to approve the terms and conditions of debt securities and preferred stock for issuance by the Company, including but not limited to voting rights, conversion privileges and liquidation preferences, without the approval of common stockholders. The rights of the holders of our common stock may be adversely impacted as a result of the rights that could potentially be granted to holders of debt securities or preferred stock that we may issue in the future. In addition, there could be an impact on the price of our common stock because of the potential impact on the rights of common shareholders resulting from future issuances of debt or preferred stock. For example, on April 22, 2013 (during the first quarter of fiscal year 2014), we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with SMG Growing Media, Inc. (“SMG”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Scotts Miracle-Gro, a worldwide marketer of branded consumer lawn and garden products. Pursuant to the Securities Purchase Agreement, SMG acquired 2,649,007 shares of the Company’s Series B Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $0.001 per share (the “Series B Preferred Stock”), and (ii) a warrant to purchase shares of the Company’s common stock (the “Warrant”). The Series B Preferred Stock is convertible into 2,649,007 shares of common stock ($4,000,000 divided by a conversion price of $1.51 per share). The Warrant entitles, but does not obligate, Scotts Miracle-Gro to purchase a number of shares of common stock that, on a “fully diluted basis,” constitute 80% of the Company’s outstanding capital stock (when added to all other shares owned), as calculated as of the date or dates of exercise. The Warrant can be exercised at any time and from time to time for a period of five years between April 22, 2016 and April 22, 2021 (For further information on the strategic alliance with Scotts Miracle-Gro, please see Note 8 “Subsequent Events” to our financial statements). The exercise price of the Warrant shall be equal to the quotient obtained by dividing: (a) an amount equal to (i) 1.34 times the trailing twelve months “Net Sales” (which includes sales of the Company’s products by Scotts Miracle-Gro and its affiliates) minus (ii) “Debt Outstanding” net of cash (as such terms are defined in the Warrant, by (b) the total shares of capital stock outstanding, including outstanding in-the-money options and warrants, but not the Warrant contemplated in this Private Offering. The Warrant contains customary anti-dilution rights (for stock splits, stock dividends and sales of substantially all the Company’s assets). 13 Table of Contents Under the Securities Purchase Agreement, our Board of Directors (the “Board”) is required to consist of five members. While the Warrant is outstanding, SMG is entitled to elect one director and have one additional Board observer. Please see Note 8 Subsequent Events to our financial statements for more detailed disclosure. As a result of this transaction, your rights as a common stockholder could be adversely affected. Because the holder of Series B Preferred Stock is entitled to vote on an “as-converted” basis with the common stock. SMG controls approximately 31% of the voting power of our outstanding equity. If SMG exercises the Warrant, its voting power will increase. As a result, SMG may be deemed to have effective control over all matters requiring action by our stockholders, including the election of our entire Board. It is unlikely that a change of control of our company could be effected without SMG’s approval. Our outstanding warrants, options and any additional future obligations to issue our securities to various parties, may dilute the value of an investment in AeroGrow. In addition, the terms and conditions of these securities could significantly impact the price of our common shares, and could adversely impact our ability to raise additional equity capital. As of March 31, 2013, we had reserved for issuance up to approximately 3,457,178 additional shares of common stock under the terms of outstanding convertible notes, warrants, options, conversion of Series A Convertible Preferred and other arrangements. On April 11, 2012, we completed a restructuring of our debt and equity accounts that involved the conversion of all of our outstanding secured convertible debt and all of the Series A Convertible Preferred shares into 3,928,620 shares of common stock. In addition, during the period May 10, 2012 through May 31, 2012, 1,624,477 common stock warrants were exercised pursuant to a program under which we temporarily reduced the exercise price on all of our common stock warrants to $0.01 per share. As of May 31, 2013, we had reserved for issuance up to approximately 527,270 additional shares of common stock under the terms of the remaining warrants and options to purchase our common stock (but excluding shares issuable upon SMG’s conversion of Series B Convertible Preferred Stock and upon exercise of the warrant (as described in the risk factor above and in Note 8 “Subsequent Events” to our financial statements). For the length of time the warrants and options are outstanding, the holders will have an opportunity to profit from a rise in the market price of our common stock without assuming all the risks of common share ownership. This may adversely affect the terms upon which we can obtain additional capital. The holders of such derivative securities would likely exercise or convert them at a time when we would be able to obtain equity capital on terms more favorable than the exercise or conversion prices provided by the notes, warrants or options. Further, future sales of substantial amounts of these shares, or the perception that such sales might occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and could impair the value of an investment in our common stock and our ability to raise equity capital in the future. If an exemption from registration on which we have relied for any of our past offerings of common stock or warrants is challenged legally, our principals may have to spend time defending claims, and we would then risk paying expenses for defense, rescission, and/or regulatory sanctions. To raise working capital, we offered common stock and warrants in private transactions that we believed to be exempt from registration under the Securities Act and state securities laws. In 2004, we conducted a state-registered offering in Colorado of common stock and warrants, intended to be exempt from registration under the Securities Act as an intrastate offering. However, because we are incorporated in Nevada, the offering did not satisfy all of the requirements for an intrastate offering. This could result in investors or regulators asserting that the Colorado offering and/or private offerings subsequent to the Colorado offering (if the private offerings were integrated with the Colorado offering) violated the Securities Act. There can be no assurance that investors or regulators will not be successful in asserting a claim that these transactions should not be integrated. In the event that one or more investors seeks rescission, with resulting return of investment funds and interest at a market rate, or that state or federal regulators seeks sanctions against us or our principals, we would spend time and financial resources to pay expenses for defense, rescission awards, or regulatory sanctions. The use of funds would reduce the capital available to operate our business. No assurance can be given regarding the outcome of any such actions. 14 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 