Item 1A. Risk Factors. The Company’s stockholders and any potential investor in the Company’s Common Stock should carefully review and consider each of the following risk factors, as well as all other information appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, relating to investment in our Common Stock. The Company’s business faces numerous risks and uncertainties, the most significant of which are described below. If any of the following risks actually occur, the business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows of the Company could be materially adversely affected, the market price of the Company’s Common Stock could decline significa ntly, and a stockholder could lose all or part of an investment in the Company’s Common Stock. The Company has a limited number of clients, two of which account for a substantial portion of its business, and failure to retain such clients or changes to these clients would have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations. Business from these two clients has declined during the last two years, and will likely continue to decline. Our two largest clients, HealthSmart Preferred Care, Inc. (“HealthSmart”) and Viant Holdings, Inc. (“Viant”), accounted for an aggregate of approximately 75% of our net revenue during 2010; of which 48% was derived from HealthSmart. In 2009, our two largest clients accounted for 85% of our net revenue, of which 47% was generated from HealthSmart. The loss of either one of these clients or significant declines in the level of use of our services by one or more of these clients (as would be the case, for example, if our clients decide to contract directly with ancillary healthcare service pro viders), without replacement by new business, would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. After already declining in the year ended December 31, 2009, net revenues from our two largest clients declined $12.0 million, or 21%, for the year ended December 31, 2010, compared to the prior year. 9Table of ContentsThe client contract with Viant expires on May 20, 2011 and automatically renews for successive one-year periods unless either party delivers a written notice of non-renewal at least 90 days prior to expiration. Since the Company has not received written notice of non-renewal, the contract term has been automatically extended through May 20, 2012. Such contract may be terminated upon thirty (30) days’ notice in the event of a breach. In addition, in March 2010, Viant was acquired by MultiPlan, Inc., a provider of PPO network and related transaction-based solutions. We expect that revenue from Viant will continue to decline as its business is integrated with its acquiror, and that even if our contract were to be renewed past May 20, 2012, it would be on a limited basis. The client contract with HealthSmart, which was set to expire on July 31, 2009, was amended on December 31, 2008. The term was extended four years and will expire on December 31, 2012. There can be no assurance that any client will maintain its contract with us after the expiration of the then-current term or that it will renew its contract on terms favorable to us. Consequently, the Company’s failure to retain such clients could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Additionally, an adverse change in the financial condition of any of these clients, particularly HealthSmart or Viant, including an adverse change as a result of a change in governmental or private reimbursement programs, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Proposed health care reforms could materially adversely affect our revenues, financial position and our results of operations. The enactment of health care reforms at the federal or state level may affect certain aspects of our business, including contracting with ancillary healthcare service providers; administrative, technology or other costs; provider reimbursement methods and payment rates; premium rates; coverage determinations; mandated benefits; minimum medical expenditures; claim payments and processing; drug utilization and patient safety efforts; collection, use, disclosure, maintenance and disposal of individually identifiable health information; personal health records; consumer-driven health plans and health savings accounts and insurance market reforms; and government-sponsored programs. During 2010, President Obama signed the Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Educational Affordability Reconciliation Act legislating broad-based changes to the U.S. health care system. Among other things, the health reform legislation includes guaranteed coverage requirements, eliminates pre-existing condition exclusions and annual and lifetime maximum limits, restricts the extent to which policies can be rescinded, and imposes new and significant taxes on health insurers and health care benefits. On December 1, 2010, HHS published final regulations implementing new sections of the Public Health Service Act as mandated by the Affordable Care Act. The new medical loss ratio ("MLR") regulations apply to issuers offering group or individual health insurance coverage. Under the MLR regulations, an issuer's MLR is calculated as the ratio of (i) incurred claims plus expenditures for activities that improve health care quality to (ii) premium revenue. The two key aspects to this calculation involve what comprises an 'incurred claim' and what qualifies as an 'expenditure for health care quality improvement.' It is possible that a portion of the fees our existing and prospective payors are contractually required to pay us and th at do not qualify as 'incurred claims' may not be included as expenditures for activities that improve health care quality. Such a determination may make it more difficult for us to retain existing clients and/or add new clients, because our clients' or prospective clients' MLR may otherwise not meet the specified targets. This may reduce our net revenues and profit margins. Other provisions of the health reform legislation become effective at various dates over the next several years. The Department of Health and Human Services, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, the Department of Labor and the Treasury Department will issue necessary enabling regulations and guidance with respect to the health care reform legislation. Due to the breadth and complexity of the health reform legislation, the scope of newly-issued implementing regulations and interpretive guidance, in addition to regulations and guidance yet to be issued, the phased-in nature of the implementation and possible changes to, or repeal of, the legislation by Congress, it is difficult to predict the overall impact of the health reform legislation on our business over the coming years. Possible adverse affects of the health reform legislation include reduced revenues, increased costs, exposure to expanded liability, and requirements for us to revise the wa ys in which we conduct business or risk of loss of business. In addition, our results of operations, our financial position, including our ability to maintain the value of our goodwill, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.10Table of ContentsThe Company has a history of losses and has only achieved profitability in the past three years. Although the Company achieved its third consecutive profitable year in 2010, it incurred losses in each year between its spinoff in 2003 through 2007 and has an accumulated deficit of approximately $1.0 million as of December 31, 2010. The Company will need to maintain similar levels of claims volume and revenue as it had in 2009 and 2010 in order to continue profitability. No assurances can be given that the Company will be able to continue its current operating volumes or continue to operate profitably in the future. The Company ’s prospects must be considered in light of the numerous risks, expenses, delays and difficulties frequently encountered in an industry characterized by intense competition, as well as the risks inherent in the development of new programs and the commercialization of new services, particularly given its operating history through 2007. The current financial crisis may reduce our revenue and profitability and harm our growth prospects. Although the Company has continued to e xperience profitability from 2008 to 2010, its results have been impacted by the current economic crisis. First, the unemployment rate has caused fewer people to participate in insurance programs with our clients. Second, plan participants, seeking to spend less money, appear to be making less frequent use of some ancillary services. Third, the possibility exists that client and, or provider consolidation within our industry could adversely affect our business. To the extent that these trends continue, or become worse, we may receive less revenue and our profitability and growth could be adversely affected, depending on the extent of the declines. Finally, as with any business, the deterioration of the financial condition or sale or change of control of our significant clients could have a corresponding adverse effect on us.&nbs p;Large competitors in the healthcare industry could choose to compete with us, reducing our margins. Some of these potential competitors may be our current clients. Traditional health insurance companies, specialty provider networks, and specialty healthcare services companies are potential competitors of the Company. These entities include well-established companies that may have greater financial, marketing and technological resources than we have. Pricing pressure caused by competition has caused many of these companies to reduce the prices charged to clients f or core services and to pass on to clients a larger portion of the formulary fees and related revenues received from service providers. Increased price competition from such companies’ entry into the market could reduce our margins and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In fact, our clients could choose to establish their own network of ancillary care providers. As a result, we would not only lose the benefit of revenue from such clients, but we could face additional competition in our market. The Company is dependent upon payments from third party payors who may reduce rates of reimbursement. The Company’s profitability depends on payments provided by third-party payors. Competition for patients, efforts by traditional third party payors to contain or reduce healthcare costs and the increasing influence of managed care payors, such as health maintenance organizations, have resulted in reduced rates of reimbursement in recent years. If continuing, these trends could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations unless it can implement measures to offset the loss of revenues and decreased profitability. In addition, changes in reimbursement policies of private and governmental third-party payors, including policies relating to the Medicare and Medicaid programs, could reduce the amounts reimbursed to the Company’s c lients for the Company’s services provided through the Company, and consequently, the amount these clients would be willing to pay for the Company’s services. Also, under the MLR regulations included in the Affordable Care Act, it is possible that a portion of the fees our existing and prospective payors are contractually required to pay us and that do not qualify as 'incurred claims' may not be included as expenditures for activities that improve health care quality. Such a determination may make it more difficult for us to retain existing clients and/or add new clients, because our clients' or prospective clients' MLR may otherwise not meet the specified targets. This may reduce our net revenues and profit margins. The Company is dependent upon its network of qualified providers and its provider agreements may be terminated at any time. The development of a network of qualified providers is an essential component of our business strategy. The typical form of agreement from ancillary healthcare providers provides that these agreements may be terminated at any time by either party with or without cause. If these agreements are terminated, such ancillary healthcare providers could enter into new agreements with our competitors which would have an adverse effect on our ability to continue our business as it is currently conducted. 11Table of ContentsFor any given claim, the Company is subject to the risk of paying more to the provider than it receives from the payor. The Company’s agreements with its payors, on the one hand, and the service providers, on the other, are negotiated separately. The Company has complete discretion in negotiating both the prices it charges its payors and the financial terms of its agreements with the providers. As a result, the Company’s profit is primarily a function of the spread between the prices it has agreed to pay the service providers and the prices the Company’s payors have agreed to pay the Company. The Company bears the pricing/margin risk because it is responsible for providing the agreed-upon services to its payors, whether or not it is able to negotiate fees and other agreement terms with service providers that result in a positive margin for the Company. For example, during 2010 and 2009, approximately 7% and 8% of claims were “loss claims” (that is, where the amount paid by the Company to the provider exceeded the amount received by the Company from the corresponding payor for that particular claim) and these loss claims, in the aggregate, comprised approximately $1.2 million in each year. There can be no assurances that the loss claim percentage will not be higher in future periods. If a higher percentage of the Company’s claims resulted in a loss, its results of operations and financial position would be adversely affected. The Company has significantly increased in size and may not be able to effectively process the claims submitted by its providers in a timely manner. Our size and the volume of claims has increased dramatically in the last few years. As a result, we have had to increase the size of our processing capabilities and our staff. If we are unable to effectively increase our processing speed and integrate new providers, we may be unable to process properly all claims submitted and this could have a negative impact on our relationships with clients, which in turn could lead to a loss of business. An interruption of data processing capabilities and telecommunications could negatively impact the Company’s operating results. Our business is dependent upon our ability to store, retrieve, process and manage data and to maintain and upgrade our data processing capabilities. An interruption of data processing capabilities for any extended length of time, loss of stored data, programming errors, other computer problems or interruptions of telephone service could have a material adverse effect on our business. Changes in state and federal regulations could restrict our ability to conduct our business. Numerous state and federal laws and regulations affect our business and operations. These laws and regulations include, but are not necessarily limited to: • Public Health Services Act, Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and Health Care and Educational Affordability Reconciliation Act; • healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations, which prohibit illegal referral and other payments; • the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 and related regulations, which regulate many healthcare plans; • mail pharmacy laws and regulations; • privacy and confidentiality laws and regulations; • consumer protection laws and regulations; • legislation imposing benefit plan design restrictions; • various licensure laws, such as managed care and third party administrator licensure laws; • drug pricing legislation; • Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement regulations; and • Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996. 12Table of ContentsWe believe we are operating our business in substantial compliance with all existing legal requirements material to the operation of our business. There are, however, significant uncertainties regarding the application of many of these legal requirements to our business, and there cannot be any assurance that a regulatory agency charged with enforcement of any of these laws or regulations will not interpret them differently or, if there is an enforcement action, that our interpretation would prevail. If the Company fails t o comply with the requirements of HIPAA, it could face sanctions and penalties. HIPAA provides safeguards to ensure the integrity and confidentiality of health information. Violation of the standards is punishable by fines and, in the case of wrongful disclosure of individually identifiable health information, fines or imprisonment, or both. Although we intend to comply with all applicable laws and regulations regarding medical information privacy, failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our business. Limited barriers to entry into the ancillary healthcare services market could result in greater competition. There are limited barriers to entering our market, meaning that it is relatively easy for other companies to replicate our business model and provide the same or similar services that we currently provide. Major benefit management companies and healthcare companies not presently offering ancillary healthcare services may decide to enter the market. These companies may have greater financial, marketing and other resources than are available to us. Competition from other companies may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The Company may be unsuccessful in hiring and retaining skilled employees. The future growth of our business depends on our ability to hire and retain skilled employees. The Company may be unable to hire and retain the skilled employees needed to succeed in our business. Qualified employees are in great demand throughout the healthcare industry. Our failure to attract and retain sufficient skilled employees may limit the rate at which our bus iness can grow, which will result in harm to our financial performance. An inability to adequately protect our intellectual property could harm the Company’s competitive position. We consider our methodologies, processes and know-how to be proprietary. We seek to protect our proprietary information through confidentiality agreements with our employees, as well as our clients and contracted service providers. The Comp any’s policy is to have its employees enter into a confidentiality agreement at the time employment begins, with the confidentiality agreement containing provisions prohibiting the employee from disclosing our confidential information to anyone outside of the Company, requiring the employee to acknowledge, and, if requested, assist in confirming the Company’s ownership of new ideas, developments, discoveries or inventions conceived by the employee during his or her employment with the Company, and requiring the assignment by the employee to the Company of proprietary rights to such matters that are related to our business. There can be no assurance that the steps taken by the Company to protect its intellectual property will be successful. If the Company does not adequately protect its intellectual property, its competitors may be able to use its technologies and erode or negate the Company’s competitive advantage in the market. Fluctuations in the number and types of claims processed by the Company could make it more difficult to predict the Company’s net revenues from quarter to quarter. Monthly fluctuations in the number of claims we process and the types of claims we process will impact the quarterly and annual results of the Company. Our margins vary depending on the type of ancillary healthcare service provided, the rates associated with those services and the overall mix of these claims, each of which will impact our profitability. &nb sp;Consequently, it may be difficult to predict our net revenue from one quarter to another quarter. 13Table of ContentsFuture sales of the Company’s Common Stock, or the perception that these sales may occur, could depress the price of the Company’s Common Stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our Common Stock, or the perception in the public that such sales may occur, could cause the market price of the Company’s Common Stock to decline. This could also impair the Company’s ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. As of March 14, 2011, the Company had 16,922,042 shares of its Common Stock outstanding. The outstanding shares are either freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act, unless the shares are held by one of our “affiliates” as such term is defined in Rule 144 of the Securities Act, or are “restricted shares” as that term is defined under the Securities Act, and may be sold from time to time pursuant to a registration statement which was declared effective on February 8, 2007 by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), or in reliance upon an exemption from registration available under the Securities Act. At March 14, 2011, warrants to purchase 225,000 shares of Common Stock of the Company were outstanding, and options to purchase 2,603,167 shares of Common Stock of the Company had been granted and were outstanding under the Company’s Amended and Restated 2005 Stock Option Plan and the 2009 Equity Incentive Plan. At March 14, 2011, restricted stock units (“RSUs”) relating to 85,873 shares of common stock were outstanding under our 2009 Equity Incentive Plan. In addition, an aggregate of 1,499,113 shares of the Common Stock of the Company remain available for future grants of RSUs and options to purchas e shares of the Common Stock of the Company under the Company’s Amended and Restated 2005 Stock Option Plan and the 2009 Equity Incentive Plan. If all of the outstanding warrants are exercised, all options available under the Company’s Amended and Restated 2005 Stock Option Plan are issued and exercised and all RSUs are converted, there will be approximately 21,335,195 shares of Common Stock of the Company outstanding. Some of our existing stockholders can exert control over us and may not make decisions that further the best interests of all stockholders. As of March 14, 2011, our officers, directors and principal stockholders (greater than 5% stockholders) together control beneficially approximately 46.0% of the outstanding Common Stock of the Company. As a result, these stockholders, if they act individually or together, may exert a significant degree of influence over our management and affairs and over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. Furthermore, the interests of this concentration of ownership may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders and, accordingly, they could cause us to enter into transactions or agreements which we would not otherwise consider. In addition, this concentration of ownership of the Company’s Common Stock may delay or prevent a merger or acquisition resulting in a change in control of the Company and might affect the market price of our Common Stock, even when such a change in control may be in the best interest of all of our stockholders. We are subject to the listing requirements of the Nasdaq Capital Market and there can be no assurances that we will continue to satisfy these listing requirements. Our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market, and we are therefore subject to continued listi ng requirements, including requirements with respect to the market value of publicly-held shares and minimum bid price per share, among others, and requirements relating to board and audit committee independence. If we fail to satisfy one or more of the requirements, we may be delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market. If we are delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market and we are not able to list our common stock on another exchange, our common stock could be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board or on the “pink sheets”. As a result, we could face significant adverse consequences including, among others, a limited availability of market quotations for our securities and a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. 