Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks associated with our business, an investment in our securities, and with achieving the forward-looking statements contained in this report or in our news releases, Web sites, public filings, investor and analyst conferences or elsewhere, include, but are not limited to, the risk factors described below. Any of the risk factors described below could cause our actual results to differ materially from expectations and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. We may not succeed in addressing these challenges and risks. The industry in which we operate is dependent upon the homebuilding industry, the economy, the credit markets, and other important factors. The building products industry is highly dependent on new home construction, which in turn is dependent upon a number of factors, including interest rates, consumer confidence, foreclosure rates, and the health of the economy and mortgage markets. Unfavorable changes in demographics, credit markets, consumer confidence, housing affordability or inventory levels, or weakening of the national economy or of any regional or local economy in which we operate could adversely affect consumer spending, result in decreased demand for homes, and adversely affect our business. Production of new homes may also decline because of shortages of qualified tradesmen, reliance on inadequately capitalized sub-contractors, and shortages of material. In addition, the homebuilding industry is subject to various local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning zoning, building design and safety, construction, and similar matters, including regulations that impose restrictive zoning and density requirements in order to limit the number of homes that can be built within the boundaries of a particular area. Increased regulatory restrictions could limit demand for new homes and could negatively affect our sales and earnings. Because we have substantial fixed costs, relatively modest declines in our customers’ production levels could continue to have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. The homebuilding industry is undergoing a significant and sustained downturn. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, actual single family housing starts in the U.S. during 2008 declined 40.5% from 2007 and declined 57.5% from 2006 to 2008. We believe that the market downturn is attributable to a variety of factors including: an economic recession; limited credit availability; excess home inventories; a substantial reduction in speculative home investment; a decline in consumer confidence; higher unemployment; and an industry-wide softening of demand. The downturn in the homebuilding industry has resulted in a substantial reduction in demand for our products and services, which in turn had a significant adverse effect on our business and operating results during fiscal 2007 and 2008. In addition, beginning in 2007, the mortgage markets experienced substantial disruption due to increased defaults, primarily as a result of credit quality deterioration. The disruption has continued to date and has precipitated evolving changes in the regulatory environment and reduced availability of mortgages for potential homebuyers due to an illiquid credit market and more restrictive standards to qualify for mortgages. During 2008, the conditions in the credit markets worsened and the economy fell into a recession. In addition, the credit markets and the financial services industry recently experienced a significant crisis characterized by the bankruptcy or failure of various financial institutions and severe limitations on credit availability. As a result, the credit markets have become highly illiquid as financial and lending institutions severely restricted lending in order to conserve cash and protect their balance sheets. Although Congress and applicable regulatory authorities have enacted legislation and implemented programs designed to protect financial institutions and free up the credit markets, it is unclear whether these actions have been effective to date or will be effective in the future. As the housing industry is dependent upon the economy as well as potential homebuyers’ access to mortgage financing and homebuilders’ 12 Table of Contents access to commercial credit, it is likely there will be further damage to an already weak housing industry until conditions in the economy and the credit markets substantially improve. We cannot predict the duration of the current market conditions, or the timing or strength of a future recovery of housing activity in our markets, if any. We also cannot provide any assurances that the homebuilding industry will not weaken further, or that the operational strategies we have implemented to address the current market conditions will be successful. Continued weakness in the homebuilding industry would have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In view of the current housing downturn, we may be required to take additional impairment charges relating to our operations or close under-performing locations. During 2008, we recorded impairment charges related to the carrying value of goodwill for two of our reporting units and some of our assets. If the current weakness in the homebuilding industry continues, we may need to take additional goodwill and/or asset impairment charges relating to certain of our reporting units. Any such non-cash charges would have an adverse effect on our financial results. In addition, in response to industry and market conditions, we may have to close certain facilities in under-performing markets. Such facility closures could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. We may have future capital needs and may not be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms. We are substantially reliant on our $350 million revolving credit facility to provide working capital and fund our operations. Subsequent to year-end, we reduced our revolving credit facility from $350 million to $250 million as allowed under the credit facility agreement (see Note 9 included in Item 8 of this annual report on Form 10-K). Our inability to renew or replace this facility when required or when business conditions warrant, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The current economic conditions, credit market conditions, and economic climate affecting our industry, as well as other factors, may constrain our financing abilities. Our ability to secure additional financing, if available, and to satisfy our financial obligations under indebtedness outstanding from time to time will depend upon our future operating performance, the availability of credit generally, economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. The prolonged continuation or worsening of the current market and macroeconomic conditions that affect our industry could have a material adverse effect on our ability to secure financing on favorable terms, if at all. We may be unable to secure additional financing or financing on favorable terms or our operating cash flow may be insufficient to satisfy our financial obligations under indebtedness outstanding from time to time, including our Second Priority Senior Secured Floating Rate Notes and our 2007 Senior Secured Credit Agreement. Furthermore, if financing is not available when needed, or is available on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of additional equity or convertible debt securities, our stockholders may experience significant dilution. Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, and prevent us from meeting our obligations under our debt instruments. As of December 31, 2008, our funded debt was $315.0 million, of which $40.0 million was under our revolving credit facility and $275.0 million was under our Second Priority Senior Secured Floating Rate Notes due in 2012. In addition, we have significant obligations under ongoing operating leases which are not reflected in our balance sheet. As of December 31, 2008, $115.0 million of our debt was at a variable interest rate as we utilize interest rate swap agreements. In the event that interest rates rise, our interest expense would increase. However, our interest rate swap contracts fix interest rates on a portion of our outstanding long-term debt balances. Based on debt outstanding at December 31, 2008, a 1.0% increase in interest rates would result in approximately $1.2 million of additional interest expense annually. 13 Table of Contents Our substantial debt could have important consequences to us, including: • increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow used in operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures, and future business opportunities; • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates, and corresponding increased interest expense, because a significant portion of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions, and general corporate or other purposes; and • limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt. In addition, some of our debt instruments, including those governing our senior secured credit facility and our notes, contain cross-default provisions that could result in our debt being declared immediately due and payable under a number of debt instruments, even if we default on only one debt instrument. In such event, it is unlikely that we would be able to satisfy our obligations under all of such accelerated indebtedness simultaneously. We may incur additional indebtedness. We may incur additional indebtedness under our senior secured credit facility, which provides for up to $250.0 million of revolving credit borrowings. Given the severe housing downturn, we are currently substantially reliant on our cash on hand and our credit facility to fund our operations. In addition, we may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, including collateralized debt, subject to the restrictions contained in the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facility and the indenture relating to our notes (unless these instruments were restructured). If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. Our debt instruments contain various covenants that limit our ability to operate our business. Our financing arrangements, including our senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing our notes, contain various provisions that limit our ability to, among other things: • transfer or sell assets, including the equity interests of our restricted subsidiaries, or use asset sale proceeds; • incur additional debt; • pay dividends or distributions on our capital stock or repurchase our capital stock; • make certain restricted payments or investments; • create liens to secure debt; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • merge or consolidate with another company or continue to receive the benefits of these financing arrangements under a “change in control” scenario (as defined in those agreements); and • engage in unrelated business activities. In addition, our senior secured credit facility requires us to meet a specified financial ratio. This financial ratio is a fixed charge coverage ratio of 1:1 that is triggered if our available borrowing capacity, as determined under the borrowing base formula, is less than $35 million. The fixed charge coverage ratio is defined as the ratio of earnings before interest expenses, income taxes, depreciation and amortization expenses minus capital expenditures, cash taxes paid, dividends, distributions and share repurchases or redemptions to the sum of scheduled principal payments and interest expense on a trailing twelve month basis from the trigger date. These covenants may restrict our ability to expand or fully pursue our business strategies. Our ability to comply with these and other provisions of the indenture governing our notes and the senior secured credit facility may be affected by changes in our operating 14 Table of Contents and financial performance, changes in general business and economic conditions, adverse regulatory developments, a change in control or other events beyond our control. The breach of any of these covenants, including those contained in our senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing our notes, could result in a default under our indebtedness, which could cause those and other obligations to become due and payable. If any of our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not be able to repay it. At December 31, 2008, our net available borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility in excess of the $35 million liquidity covenant was zero due to a drop in our eligible borrowing base coupled with lower seasonal advance rates set forth under the credit agreement. Approximately $12.8 million of cash on hand at year-end supported a short-fall in the calculation of the $35 million minimum liquidity covenant contained in the credit agreement. This covenant calculates as eligible borrowing base less outstanding borrowings. The resulting amount must exceed $35 million or we are required to meet a fixed charge coverage ratio, which we currently would not meet. Based on our 2009 forecast, we will not meet the fixed charge coverage ratio, but we anticipate that we would not fall below the $35 million minimum liquidity covenant in 2009 and therefore, would not trigger the fixed charge coverage ratio requirement. The calculation allows cash on deposit with the agent to be included as eligible borrowing base. Absent the use of cash in the calculation, we would have been forced to repay $12.8 million in borrowings to comply with the covenant. We occupy most of our facilities under long-term non-cancelable leases. We may be unable to renew leases at the end of their terms. If we close a facility, we are still obligated under the applicable lease. Most of our facilities are located in leased premises. Many of our current leases are non-cancelable and typically have terms ranging from 5 to 15 years and most provide options to renew for specified periods of time. We believe that leases we enter into in the future will likely be long-term and non-cancelable and have similar renewal options. If we close or idle a facility, we generally remain committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease, which would include, among other things, payment of the base rent for the balance of the lease term. During 2007 and 2008, we closed or idled a number of facilities for which we remain liable on the lease obligations. Our obligation to continue making rental payments in respect of leases for closed or idled facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Alternatively, at the end of the lease term and any renewal period for a facility, we may be unable to renew the lease without substantial additional cost, if at all. If we are unable to renew our facility leases, we may close or relocate a facility, which could subject us to construction and other costs and risks, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. For example, closing a facility, even during the time of relocation, will reduce the sales that the facility would have contributed to our revenues. Additionally, the revenue and profit, if any, generated at a relocated facility may not equal the revenue and profit generated at the existing one. We are a holding company and conduct all of our operations through our subsidiaries. We are a holding company that derives all of our operating income from our subsidiaries. All of our assets are held by our direct and indirect subsidiaries. We rely on the earnings and cash flows of our subsidiaries, which are paid to us by our subsidiaries in the form of dividends and other payments or distributions, to meet our debt service obligations. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments or distributions to us will depend on their respective operating results and may be restricted by, among other things, the laws of their jurisdiction of organization (which may limit the amount of funds available for the payment of dividends and other distributions to us), the terms of existing and future indebtedness and other agreements of our subsidiaries, the senior secured credit facility, the terms of the indenture governing our notes, and the covenants of any future outstanding indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur. Our financial condition and operating performance and that of our subsidiaries is also subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, and other factors beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and 15 Table of Contents might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. The credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing our notes restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from such disposition. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or be able to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them, and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. The building supply industry is cyclical and seasonal. The building products supply industry is subject to cyclical market pressures. Prices of building products are subject to fluctuations arising from changes in supply and demand, national and international economic conditions, labor costs, competition, market speculation, government regulation, and trade policies, as well as from periodic delays in the delivery of lumber and other products. For example, prices of wood products, including lumber and panel products, are subject to significant volatility and directly affect our sales and earnings. In particular, low market prices for wood products over a sustained period can adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. For the year ended December 31, 2008, average prices for lumber and lumber sheet goods were 8.4% lower than the prior year. The current housing downturn has resulted in a prolonged period of relatively low market prices for wood products. Our lumber & lumber sheet goods product category represented 23.9% of total sales for the year ended December 31, 2008. We have no ability to control the timing and amount of pricing changes for building products. In addition, the supply of building products fluctuates based on available manufacturing capacity. A shortage of capacity or excess capacity in the industry can result in significant increases or declines in market prices for those products, often within a short period of time. Such price fluctuations can adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. In addition, although weather patterns affect our operating results throughout the year, adverse weather historically has reduced construction activity in the first and fourth quarters in our markets. To the extent that hurricanes, severe storms, floods, other natural disasters or similar events occur in the markets in which we operate, our business may be adversely affected. We anticipate that fluctuations from period to period will continue in the future. The loss of any of our significant customers could affect our financial health. Our 10 largest customers generated approximately 19.0% of our sales in the year ended December 31, 2008, and our largest customer accounted for less than 5.0% of our sales in that same period. We cannot guarantee that we will maintain or improve our relationships with these customers or that we will continue to supply these customers at historical levels. Due to the current housing downturn, many of our homebuilder customers have substantially reduced construction activity. Some homebuilder customers have exited or severely curtailed building activity in certain of our markets. This trend is likely to continue until there is a housing recovery in our markets. A prolonged housing downturn could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. In addition to these factors, production homebuilders and other customers may: (1) seek to purchase some of the products that we currently sell directly from manufacturers, (2) elect to establish their own building products manufacturing and distribution facilities, or (3) give advantages to manufacturing or distribution intermediaries in which they have an economic stake. In addition, continued consolidation among production homebuilders could also result in a loss of some of our present customers to our competitors. The loss of one or more of our significant customers or deterioration in our relations with any of them could significantly affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Furthermore, our customers are not required to purchase any minimum amount of products from us. The contracts into which we have entered with most of our professional customers typically provide that we supply particular products or services for a certain period of time when and if ordered by the customer. Should our customers purchase our products in significantly lower quantities than they have in the past, such decreased purchases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Our industry is highly fragmented and competitive, and increased competitive pressure may adversely affect our results. The building products supply industry is highly fragmented and competitive. We face significant competition from local and regional building materials chains, as well as from privately-owned single site enterprises. Any of these 16 Table of Contents competitors may (1) foresee the course of market development more accurately than do we, (2) develop products that are superior to our products, (3) have the ability to produce similar products at a lower cost, (4) develop stronger relationships with local homebuilders, or (5) adapt more quickly to new technologies or evolving customer requirements than do we. As a result, we may not be able to compete successfully with them. In addition, home center retailers, which have historically concentrated their sales efforts on retail consumers and small contractors, may in the future intensify their marketing efforts to professional homebuilders. Furthermore, certain product manufacturers sell and distribute their products directly to production homebuilders. The volume of such direct sales could increase in the future. Additionally, manufacturers of products distributed by us may elect to sell and distribute directly to homebuilders in the future or enter into exclusive supplier arrangements with other distributors. Consolidation of production homebuilders may result in increased competition for their business. Finally, we may not be able to maintain our operating costs or product prices at a level sufficiently low for us to compete effectively. If we are unable to compete effectively, our financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected. We are subject to competitive pricing pressure from our customers. Production homebuilders historically have exerted significant pressure on their outside suppliers to keep prices low because of their market share and their ability to leverage such market share in the highly fragmented building products supply industry. The current housing industry downturn has resulted in increased pricing pressures from production homebuilders and other customers. In addition, continued consolidation among production homebuilders, and changes in production homebuilders’ purchasing policies or payment practices, could result in additional pricing pressure. If we are unable to generate sufficient cost savings to offset any price reductions, our financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected. In addition, as a result of the housing downturn, several of our homebuilder customers have defaulted on amounts owed to us, or their payable days have become extended as a result of their financial condition. Such payment failures or delays may significantly adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. We are subject to the listing requirements under NASDAQ Marketplace Rules. We may not be able to continue to comply with the listing requirements under these rules. Under NASDAQ Marketplace Rules, our common stock is required to maintain a minimum $1 bid price in order to qualify for continued listing on the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC (“NASDAQ”). Failure to maintain the minimum bid price for a period of 30 consecutive business days would potentially result in delisting our common stock. Due to the recent unusual market conditions, the NASDAQ has suspended the minimum bid price requirement through April 20, 2009. For the month of December 2008, the bid price for our common stock on NASDAQ ranged from $0.83 to $2.18. Delisting of our common stock by NASDAQ could have a material adverse impact on the market value and liquidity of our stock. Certain institutional holders of our common stock may be prohibited from investing in our stock if it is delisted or fails to meet minimum liquidity or price requirements. No assurance can be given that our common stock will remain in compliance with NASDAQ’s listing requirements. The ownership position of affiliates of JLL Partners and Warburg Pincus LLC limits other stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters. Affiliates of JLL Partners and Warburg Pincus LLC control Building Products, LLC, which owns approximately 50% of our outstanding common stock. Six of our 10 directors are employees of either JLL Partners or Warburg Pincus LLC. Accordingly, such affiliates of JLL Partners and Warburg Pincus LLC have significant influence over our management and affairs and over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or its assets. This concentrated ownership position limits other stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that some of our stockholders do not view as beneficial. Additionally, JLL Partners and Warburg Pincus LLC are in the business of making investments in companies and may, from time to time, acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. These entities may also pursue, for their own accounts, acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. Further, certain provisions of our amended and restated 17 Table of Contents certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may limit your ability to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that some of our stockholders do not view as beneficial. Our continued success will depend on our ability to retain our key employees and to attract and retain new qualified employees. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract, hire, train, and retain qualified managerial, sales and marketing personnel. We face significant competition for these types of employees in our industry. We may be unsuccessful in attracting and retaining the personnel we require to conduct and expand our operations successfully. In addition, key personnel may leave us and compete against us. Our success also depends to a significant extent on the continued service of our senior management team. We may be unsuccessful in replacing key managers who either quit or retire. The loss of any member of our senior management team or other experienced, senior employees could impair our ability to execute our business plan, cause us to lose customers and reduce our net sales, or lead to employee morale problems and/or the loss of other key employees. In any such event, our financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected. The nature of our business exposes us to product liability and warranty claims and other legal proceedings. We are involved in product liability and product warranty claims relating to the products we manufacture and distribute that, if adversely determined, could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. We rely on manufacturers and other suppliers to provide us with many of the products we sell and distribute. Because we do not have direct control over the quality of such products manufactured or supplied by such third party suppliers, we are exposed to risks relating to the quality of such products. In addition, we are exposed to potential claims arising from the conduct of homebuilders and their subcontractors, for which we may be contractually liable. Although we currently maintain what we believe to be suitable and adequate insurance in excess of our self-insured amounts, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms or that such insurance will provide adequate protection against potential liabilities. Product liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant periods, regardless of the ultimate outcome. Claims of this nature could also have a negative impact on customer confidence in our products and our company. In addition, we are involved on an ongoing basis in other legal proceedings. We cannot assure you that any current or future claims will not adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Product shortages, loss of key suppliers, and our dependence on third-party suppliers and manufacturers could affect our financial health. Our ability to offer a wide variety of products to our customers is dependent upon our ability to obtain adequate product supply from manufacturers and other suppliers. Generally, our products are obtainable from various sources and in sufficient quantities. However, the loss of, or a substantial decrease in the availability of, products from our suppliers or the loss of key supplier arrangements could adversely impact our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Although in many instances we have agreements with our suppliers, these agreements are generally terminable by either party on limited notice. Failure by our suppliers to continue to supply us with products on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, could put pressure on our operating margins or have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Short-term changes in the cost of these materials, some of which are subject to significant fluctuations, are sometimes, but not always passed on to our customers. Our delayed ability to pass on material price increases to our customers could adversely impact our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. A range of factors may make our quarterly revenues and earnings variable. We have historically experienced, and in the future will continue to experience, variability in revenues and earnings on a quarterly basis. The factors expected to contribute to this variability include, among others: (1) the 18 Table of Contents volatility of prices of lumber and wood products, (2) the cyclical nature of the homebuilding industry, (3) general economic conditions in the various local markets in which we compete, (4) the pricing policies of our competitors, (5) the production schedules of our customers, and (6) the effects of the weather. These factors, among others, make it difficult to project our operating results on a consistent basis, which may affect the price of our stock. We may be adversely affected by any disruption in our information technology systems. Our operations are dependent upon our information technology systems, which encompass all of our major business functions. Our centralized financial reporting system currently draws data from our ERP systems. We rely upon such information technology systems to manage and replenish inventory, to fill and ship customer orders on a timely basis, and to coordinate our sales activities across all of our products and services. A substantial disruption in our information technology systems for any prolonged time period (arising from, for example, system capacity limits from unexpected increases in our volume of business, outages or delays in our service) could result in delays in receiving inventory and supplies or filling customer orders and adversely affect our customer service and relationships. Our systems might be damaged or interrupted by natural or man-made events or by computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins or similar disruptions affecting the global Internet. As part of our continuing integration of our computer systems, we plan to integrate our ERPs into a single system. This integration may divert management’s attention from our core businesses. In addition, we may experience delays in such integration or problems with the functionality of the integrated system, which could increase the expected cost of the integration. There can be no assurance that such delays, problems, or costs will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. We may be adversely affected by any natural or man-made disruptions to our distribution and manufacturing facilities. We currently maintain a broad network of distribution and manufacturing facilities throughout the southern and eastern U.S. Any serious disruption to our facilities resulting from fire, earthquake, weather-related events, an act of terrorism or any other cause could damage a significant portion of our inventory and could materially impair our ability to distribute our products to customers. Moreover, we could incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with distributing our products to our customers during the time that it takes for us to reopen or replace a damaged facility. In addition, any shortages of fuel or significant fuel cost increases could seriously disrupt our ability to distribute products to our customers. If any of these events were to occur, our financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. We may be unable to successfully implement our growth strategy, which includes increasing sales of our prefabricated components and other value-added products, pursuing strategic acquisitions and opening new facilities. Our strategy depends in part on growing our sales of prefabricated components and other value-added products and increasing our market share. If any of these initiatives are not successful, or require extensive investment, our growth may be limited, and we may be unable to achieve or maintain expected levels of growth and profitability. Our long-term business plan also provides for continued growth through strategic acquisitions and organic growth through the construction of new facilities or the expansion of existing facilities. Failure to identify and acquire suitable acquisition candidates on appropriate terms could have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy. Moreover, a significant change in our business, the economy or the housing market, an unexpected decrease in our cash flow for any reason, or the requirements of our senior secured credit facility or the indenture governing the notes could result in an inability to obtain the capital required to effect new acquisitions or expansions of existing facilities. Our failure to make successful acquisitions or to build or expand facilities, including manufacturing facilities, produce saleable product or meet customer demand in a timely manner could result in damage to or loss of customer relationships, which could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. In addition, although we have been successful in the past in integrating 27 acquisitions, we may not be able to integrate the operations of future acquired businesses with our own in an efficient and cost-effective manner or without significant disruption to our existing operations. Acquisitions, moreover, involve significant risks and uncertainties, including difficulties integrating acquired personnel and corporate cultures into our business, the potential loss of key 19 Table of Contents employees, customers or suppliers, difficulties in integrating different computer and accounting systems, exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies, and the diversion of management attention and resources from existing operations. We may be unable to successfully complete potential acquisitions due to multiple factors, such as issues related to regulatory review of the proposed transactions. We may also be required to incur additional debt in order to consummate acquisitions in the future, which debt may be substantial and may limit our flexibility in using our cash flow from operations. Our failure to integrate future acquired businesses effectively or to manage other consequences of our acquisitions, including increased indebtedness, could prevent us from remaining competitive and, ultimately, could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Federal, state, local and other regulations could impose substantial costs and/or restrictions on our operations that would reduce our net income. We are subject to various federal, state, local and other regulations, including, among other things, regulations promulgated by the Department of Transportation and applicable to our fleet of delivery trucks, work safety regulations promulgated by the Department of Labor’s Occupational Safety and Health Administration, employment regulations promulgated by the United States Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or similar entities, and state and local zoning restrictions and building codes. More burdensome regulatory requirements in these or other areas may increase our general and administrative costs and adversely affect our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows. Moreover, failure to comply with the regulatory requirements applicable to our business could expose us to substantial penalties which could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. We are subject to potential exposure to environmental liabilities and are subject to environmental regulation. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations. Although we believe that our facilities are in material compliance with such laws, ordinances, and regulations, as owners and lessees of real property, we can be held liable for the investigation or remediation of contamination on such properties, in some circumstances, without regard to whether we knew of or were responsible for such contamination. No assurance can be provided that remediation may not be required in the future as a result of spills or releases of petroleum products or hazardous substances, the discovery of unknown environmental conditions or more stringent standards regarding existing residual contamination. More burdensome environmental regulatory requirements may increase our general and administrative costs and adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. We may be adversely affected by uncertainty in the economy and financial markets, including as a result of terrorism and the war in the Middle East. Instability in the economy and financial markets, including as a result of terrorism and the war in the Middle East, may result in a decrease in housing starts, which would adversely affect our business. In addition, the war, related setbacks or adverse developments, including a retaliatory military strike or terrorist attack, may cause unpredictable or unfavorable economic conditions and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. In addition, any shortages of fuel or significant fuel cost increases related to geopolitical conditions could seriously disrupt our ability to distribute products to our customers. Terrorist attacks similar to the ones committed on September 11, 2001, may directly affect our ability to keep our operations and services functioning properly and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Being a public company increases our administrative costs. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting, and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. Under the SEC rules and regulations, as well as those of NASDAQ Stock Market LLC, our financial compliance costs have increased. Such rules may also make it more difficult and more expensive to obtain director and officer liability insurance. We may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our 20 Table of Contents audit committee, and qualified executive officers. Our strategy depends in part upon reducing and controlling operating expenses and upon working capital and operating improvements. We cannot assure you that our efforts will continue to result in the level of profitability, cost savings or other benefits that we expect. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 