ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have identified material weaknesses in our internal controls, which could affect our ability to ensure timely and reliable financial reports and the ability of our auditors to attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls. In June 2004, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or PCAOB, adopted rules for purposes of implementing Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which included revised definitions of material weaknesses and significant deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting. The PCAOB defines a material weakness as “a significant deficiency, or a combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or 12 Table of Contents detected.” The new rules describe certain circumstances as being both significant deficiencies and strong indicators that material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting exist. Our management has identified significant deficiencies which, taken in the aggregate, amount to material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Management believes that many of these are as a result of our transition from a subsidiary of a multinational company to a stand alone entity. Our management identified a number of factors contributing to our conclusion that we have material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, including the following: • identification by our auditors of misstatements in internal drafts of our financial statements that were not initially identified by our internal control process, indicating a weakness with respect to our ability to properly monitor and account for non-routine transactions, and to apply GAAP in transactions subject to new or complex accounting pronouncements; • the need for a Chief Financial Officer with SEC reporting experience, a Director of Financial Reporting with strong accounting and SEC reporting experience and additional skilled accounting and SEC experienced personnel to enhance the accounting department to remedy insufficient experience in public company accounting and periodic reporting matters among our existing staff; • adequacy of resources at corporate accounting to properly review reporting-unit financial information; • the need to develop a tax department; • the need to develop a risk management department; • the need to establish an internal audit department; • inconsistent application and documentation of accounting policies; • the need to enhance our documentation of our systems and controls; and • multiple IT systems across our different operations require significant manual intervention to produce consistent consolidated financial information. We have already taken a number of actions to begin to address the items identified including: • hiring an experienced Chief Financial Officer with broad finance and SEC reporting experience, a Chief Accounting Officer with significant accounting and SEC reporting experience, a Director of Risk Management, a Director of Internal Audit and a General Counsel; • changing the organizational relationship of the worldwide accounting organization so that the Controllers of the operation units report directly to our Vice-President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer; • hiring additional accounting personnel with SEC reporting expertise; • updating and harmonizing our accounting policies and documentation; • dedicating more resources to the review and testing of reporting-unit financial information; • approving and commencing the implementation of new IT systems across all the company’s reporting units; • engaging additional outside personnel to assist our internal personnel with audit work and SEC reporting; • outsourcing a substantial portion of our tax functions to a professional service firm; and • engaging external resources to supplement our Section 404 evaluation and implementation efforts. While we have taken certain actions to address the deficiencies identified, additional measures will be necessary and these measures, along with other measures we expect to take to improve our internal controls over financial reporting, may not be sufficient to address the deficiencies identified or ensure that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. If we are unable to provide reliable and timely financial external reports, our business and prospects could suffer material adverse effects. In addition, we may in the future identify further material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. Beginning with the year ending December 31, 2006, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our management will be required to deliver a report that assesses the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, and our auditors will be required to deliver an attestation report on management’s assessment of and 13 Table of Contents operating effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. We have substantial effort ahead of us to complete documentation of our internal control system and financial processes, information systems, assessment of their design, remediation of control deficiencies identified in these efforts and management testing of the design and operation of internal control. We may not be able to complete the required management assessment by our reporting deadline. An inability to complete and document this assessment by the reporting deadline would result in us receiving something other than an unqualified report from our auditors with respect to our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, if material weaknesses are identified and not remediated with respect to our internal control over financial reporting, we would not be able to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting was effective, which would result in the inability of our external auditors to deliver an unqualified report, or any report, on our internal control over financial reporting. Inferior internal control over financial reporting could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our securities. While a division of our prior owner, we had two “reportable conditions” in our internal financial control: • During the third quarter of 2003, a management review identified an issue relating to work-in-process inventory at two of our manufacturing locations. It was determined that certain work-in-process inventory had not been properly relieved upon shipment during the time period from 1999 through 2003, resulting in an overstatement of inventory. Management immediately began an extensive, in-depth review of our accounts and records. As a consequence of these problems, we implemented an internal review of the functions and processes at the two plants that were involved, identified gaps in our internal controls and put in place remedial measures. At the end of this review and remediation process, our auditors determined that we had successfully eliminated the weakness in our inventory controls. • During June 2004, management uncovered an issue relating to payroll fraud at our U.S. Shared Services Unit in Olean, NY. It was determined that the payroll supervisor had misappropriated funds through the payroll system from February 1994 to June 2004. A thorough investigation was undertaken involving Dresser-Rand Company personnel, Ingersoll-Rand Internal Audit and the forensic investigations section of an independent accounting firm. The review of past payroll records from both Oracle (2/01-6/04) and GEAC (1/90-12/00) systems revealed that $1.042 million had been illegally processed through payroll and diverted to the payroll supervisor’s bank account. As part of the investigation, steps were taken to ensure that proper segregation of duties exist such that no one in the payroll, human resources or information technology areas has update capability for both the payroll and the human resources systems. We continue to have deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting with respect to our Brazilian subsidiary. We recently became subject to financial reporting and other requirements for which our accounting and other management systems and resources may not be adequately prepared. The initial public offering resulted in our becoming subject to reporting and other obligations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended (the Exchange Act). These reporting and other obligations will place significant demands on our management, administrative and operational resources, including our accounting resources. Since the Transactions, we have continued to upgrade our systems, implement additional financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures and hire additional accounting and finance staff. However, we may need to supplement our financial, administrative and other resources, and we may have underestimated the difficulties and costs of obtaining any required resources and successfully operating as an independent company. If we are unable to upgrade our financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures in a timely and effective fashion, our ability to comply with our financial reporting requirements and other rules that apply to reporting companies could be impaired. Further, if we are late in filing certain SEC reports, it could constitute a default under our indenture and senior secured credit facility. Our operating results could be harmed during economic or industry downturns. The businesses of most of our clients, particularly oil, gas and petrochemical companies, are, to varying degrees, cyclical and historically have experienced periodic downturns. Profitability in those industries is highly sensitive to supply and demand cycles and volatile product prices, and our clients in those industries historically have tended to delay large capital projects, including expensive maintenance and upgrades, during industry downturns. These industry downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, excess manufacturing capacity and subsequent accelerated erosion of average selling prices. Demand for our new units and, to a lesser extent, aftermarket parts and services is driven by a combination of long-term and cyclical trends, including increased 14 Table of Contents outsourcing of services, maturing oil and gas fields, the aging of the installed base of equipment throughout the industry, gas market growth and the construction of new gas infrastructure, and regulatory factors. In addition, the growth of new unit sales is generally linked to the growth of oil and gas consumption in markets in which we operate. Therefore, any significant downturn in our clients’ markets or in general economic conditions could result in a reduction in demand for our services and products and could harm our business. Such downturns, or the perception that they may occur, could have a significant negative impact on the market price of our senior subordinated notes and our common stock. We may not be successful in implementing our business strategy to increase our aftermarket parts and services revenue. We estimate that we currently provide approximately 50% of the supplier-provided aftermarket parts and services needs of our own manufactured equipment base and approximately two percent of the aftermarket parts and services needs of the equipment base of other manufacturers. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to provide aftermarket parts and services to both our own and our competitors’ equipment base and our ability to develop and maintain our alliance relationships. Our ability to implement our business strategy successfully depends on a number of factors, including the success of our competitors in servicing the aftermarket parts and services needs of our clients, the willingness of our clients to outsource their service needs to us, the willingness of our competitors’ clients to outsource their service needs to us, and general economic conditions. We cannot assure you that we will succeed in implementing our strategy. We face intense competition that may cause us to lose market share and harm our financial performance. We encounter competition in all areas of our business, principally in the new unit segment. The principal methods of competition in our markets include product performance, client service, product lead times, global reach, brand reputation, breadth of product line, quality of aftermarket service and support and price. Our clients increasingly demand more technologically advanced and integrated products, and we must continue to develop our expertise and technical capabilities in order to manufacture and market these products successfully. To remain competitive, we will need to invest continuously in research and development, manufacturing, marketing, client service and support and our distribution networks. In addition, our significant leverage and the restrictive covenants to which we are subject may harm our ability to compete effectively. In our aftermarket parts and services segment, we compete with our major competitors, small independent local providers and our clients’ in-house service providers. Other OEMs typically have an advantage in competing for services and upgrades to their own equipment. Failure to penetrate this market will adversely affect our ability to grow our business. In addition, our competitors are increasingly emulating our alliance strategy. Our alliance relationships are terminable without penalty by either party, and failure to maintain or enter into new alliance relationships will adversely affect our ability to grow our business. We may not be able to complete, or achieve the expected benefits from, any future acquisitions, which could adversely affect our growth. We have at times used acquisitions as a means of expanding our business and expect that we will continue to do so. If we do not successfully integrate acquisitions, we may not realize operating advantages and cost savings. Future acquisitions may require us to incur additional debt and contingent liabilities, which may materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The acquisition and integration of companies involve a number of risks, including: • use of available cash, new borrowings or borrowings under our senior secured credit facility to consummate the acquisition; • demands on management related to the increase in our size after an acquisition; • diversion of management’s attention from existing operations to the integration of acquired companies; • integration into our existing systems; • difficulties in the assimilation and retention of employees; and • potential adverse effects on our operating results. We may not be able to maintain the levels of operating efficiency that acquired companies achieved separately. Successful integration of acquired operations will depend upon our ability to manage those operations and to eliminate redundant and excess costs. We may not be able to achieve the cost savings and other benefits that we 15 Table of Contents would hope to achieve from acquisitions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Economic, political and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our business. Since we manufacture and sell our products and services worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. For the year ended December 31, 2005, 42% of our net revenue was derived from North America, 13% from Latin America, 19% from Europe, 11% from Asia Pacific and 15% from the Middle East and Africa. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; • exchange controls; • changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions, particularly in emerging markets; • civil unrest in any of the countries in which we operate; • tariffs, other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; • differing labor regulations; • requirements relating to withholding taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; • different regimes controlling the protection of our intellectual property; • restrictions on our ability to own or operate subsidiaries, make investments or acquire new businesses in these jurisdictions; • restrictions on our ability to repatriate dividends from our subsidiaries; • difficulty in collecting international accounts receivable; • difficulty in enforcement of contractual obligations governed by non-U.S. law; • unexpected transportation delays or interruptions; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and • the burden of complying with multiple and potentially conflicting laws. Our international operations are affected by global economic and political conditions. Changes in economic or political conditions in any of the countries in which we operate could result in exchange rate movements, new currency or exchange controls or other restrictions being imposed on our operations or expropriation. In addition, the financial condition of foreign clients may not be as strong as that of our current domestic clients. Some of the international markets in which we operate are politically unstable and are subject to occasional civil and communal unrest, such as Venezuela and Western Africa. For example, in Nigeria we terminated a contract due to civil unrest. Riots, strikes, the outbreak of war or terrorist attacks in foreign locations, such as in the Middle East, could also adversely affect our business. From time to time, certain of our foreign subsidiaries operate in countries that are or have previously been subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the U.S. government and the United Nations, including Iraq, Iran, Libya, Sudan and Syria. Those foreign subsidiaries sell compressors, turbines and related parts and accessories to customers including enterprises controlled by government agencies of these countries in the oil, gas, petrochemical and power production industries. Although these sanctions and embargoes do not prohibit those subsidiaries from selling products and providing services in such countries, they do prohibit the issuer and its domestic subsidiaries, as well as employees of our foreign subsidiaries who are U.S. citizens, from participating in, approving or otherwise facilitating any aspect of the business activities in those countries. These constraints on our ability to have U.S. persons, including our senior management, provide managerial oversight and supervision may negatively affect the financial or operating performance of such business activities. In addition, some of these countries, including those named in the preceding paragraph, are or previously have been identified by the State Department as terrorist-sponsoring states. Because certain of our foreign subsidiaries 16 Table of Contents have contact with and transact business in such countries, including sales to enterprises controlled by agencies of the governments of such countries, our reputation may suffer due to our association with these countries, which may have a material adverse effect on the price of our senior subordinated notes and our common stock. Further, certain U.S. states have enacted legislation regarding investments by pension funds and other retirement systems in companies that have business activities or contacts with countries that have been identified as terrorist-sponsoring states and similar legislation may be pending in other states. As a result, pension funds and other retirement systems may be subject to reporting requirements with respect to investments in companies such as ours or may be subject to limits or prohibitions with respect to those investments that may have a material adverse effect on the prices of our senior subordinated notes and our common stock. Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar may adversely affect our results of operations. Because our combined financial results are reported in U.S. dollars, if we generate sales or earnings in other currencies the translation of those results into U.S. dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the amount of those sales or earnings. In addition, our debt service requirements are primarily in U.S. dollars, even though a significant percentage of our cash flow is generated in euros or other foreign currencies. Significant changes in the value of the euro relative to the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to meet interest and principal payments on U.S. dollar-denominated debt, including the senior subordinated notes and the U.S. dollar-denominated borrowings under the senior secured credit facility. In addition, fluctuations in currencies relative to currencies in which our earnings are generated may make it more difficult to perform period-to-period comparisons of our reported results of operations. For purposes of accounting, the assets and liabilities of our foreign operations, where the local currency is the functional currency, are translated using period-end exchange rates, and the revenues and expenses of our foreign operations are translated using average exchange rates during each period. In addition to currency translation risks, we incur currency transaction risk whenever we or one of our subsidiaries enters into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a currency other than the local currency of the transacting entity. Given the volatility of exchange rates, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively manage our currency transaction and/or translation risks. Volatility in currency exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We have purchased and may continue to purchase foreign currency hedging instruments protecting or offsetting positions in certain currencies to reduce the risk of adverse currency fluctuations. We have in the past experienced and expect to continue to experience economic loss and a negative impact on earnings as a result of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. In the past, our Brazilian subsidiary has engaged in business transactions involving a Cuban entity that could subject us to potential sanctions. As a result of the enhanced compliance processes implemented by us shortly prior to and following the acquisition of the Company from Ingersoll-Rand in October 2004, we discovered that our Brazilian subsidiary engaged in a number of transactions that resulted in steam turbine parts and services being provided to Moa Nickel S.A., a Cuban mining company jointly owned by the Government of Cuba and Sherritt International Corp., a Canadian company. Our revenues from these transactions were approximately $4.0 million in the aggregate since December 1999, when we acquired a controlling interest in the Brazilian subsidiary. This amount represents approximately 0.06% of our consolidated revenues for the years 2000 through 2005. Of the $4.0 million, approximately $2.5 million in revenues were in connection with the sale of a spare part ordered in October 2003, which was delivered and installed in Cuba, with the assistance of non-U.S. employees of our Brazilian subsidiary, in May 2005. When these transactions came to our attention, we instructed our Brazilian subsidiary in July 2005 to cease dealings with Cuba. These transactions were apparently in violation of the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control’s regulations with respect to Cuba. We have informed the U.S. Treasury Department of these matters and are currently engaged in preliminary discussions with the Department. Our inquiry into these transactions is continuing and the Department’s review of this matter is in a very preliminary stage. Cuba is subject to economic sanctions administered by the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, and is identified by the U.S. State Department as a terrorist-sponsoring state. To the extent we violated any regulations with respect to Cuba or the Department determines that other violations have occurred, we will be subject to fines or other sanctions, including possible criminal penalties, with related business consequences. We do not expect these matters to have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. These matters may have a material adverse effect on the valuation of our stock, beyond any loss of revenue or earnings. In addition, the Department’s investigation into our activities with respect to Cuba may result in additional scrutiny of our activities with respect to other countries that are the subject of sanctions. 17 Table of Contents If we lose our senior management, our business may be materially adversely affected. The success of our business is largely dependent on our senior managers, as well as on our ability to attract and retain other qualified personnel. Six of the top members of our senior management team have been with us for over 20 years, including our Chief Executive Officer and president who has been with us for 25 years. In addition, there is significant demand in our industry for qualified engineers and mechanics. Further, several members of our management will be receiving a significant amount of the net proceeds from the potential secondary offering of our common stock by D-R Interholding, LLC as well as from any future secondary offerings. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain all of our current senior management personnel and to attract and retain other personnel, including qualified mechanics and engineers, necessary for the development of our business. The loss of the services of senior management and other key personnel or the failure to attract additional personnel as required could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Environmental compliance costs and liabilities could affect our financial condition adversely. Our operations and properties are subject to stringent U.S. and foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, including laws and regulations governing the investigation and clean up of contaminated properties as well as air emissions, water discharges, waste management and disposal and workplace health and safety. Such laws and regulations affect a significant percentage of our operations, are continually changing, are different in every jurisdiction and can impose substantial fines and sanctions for violations. Further, they may require substantial clean-up costs for our properties (many of which are sites of long-standing manufacturing operations) and the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit pollution emissions and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. We must conform our operations and properties to these laws and adapt to regulatory requirements in all jurisdictions as these requirements change. We routinely deal with natural gas, oil and other petroleum products. As a result of our fabrication and aftermarket parts and services operations, we generate, manage and dispose of or recycle hazardous wastes and substances such as solvents, thinner, waste paint, waste oil, washdown wastes and sandblast material. Hydrocarbons or other hazardous substances or wastes may have been disposed or released on, under or from properties owned, leased or operated by us or on, under or from other locations where such substances or wastes have been taken for disposal. These properties may be subject to investigatory, clean-up and monitoring requirements under U.S. and foreign, federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. Such liability may be imposed without regard to the legality of the original actions and without regard to whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances, and such liability may be joint and several with other parties. If the liability is joint and several, we could be responsible for payment of the full amount of the liability, whether or not any other responsible party also is liable. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, both operating and capital costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations, including the clean-up and investigation of some of our properties as well as offsite disposal locations. In addition, although we believe our operations are in compliance with environmental laws and regulations and that we will be indemnified by Ingersoll-Rand for certain contamination and compliance costs (subject to certain exceptions and limitations), new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination, the imposition of new clean-up requirements, new claims for property damage or personal injury arising from environmental matters, or the refusal and/or inability of Ingersoll-Rand to meet its indemnification obligations could require us to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to maintain a safety performance that is acceptable to our clients could result in the loss of future business. Our U.S. clients are heavily regulated by the Occupational Safety & Health Administration, or OSHA, concerning workplace safety and health. Our clients have very high expectations regarding safety and health issues and require us to maintain safety performance records for our worldwide operations, field services, repair centers, sales and manufacturing plant units. Our clients often insist that our safety performance equal or exceed their safety performance requirements. We estimate that over 90% of our clients have safety performance criteria for their suppliers in order to be qualified for their “approved suppliers” list. For instance, BP, one of our largest customers in 2003, requires its suppliers to have an OSHA Recordable Incident Rate of 2.0 or less. If we fail to meet a client’s safety 18 Table of Contents performance requirements, we may be removed from that client’s approved suppliers database and precluded from bidding on future business opportunities with that client. In response to our clients’ requirements regarding safety performance, we maintain a database to measure our monthly and annual safety performance and track our incident rates. Our incident rates help us identify and track accident trends, determine root causes, formulate corrective actions, and implement preventive initiatives. Within the past two years, we have been removed from one client’s approved supplier database for failure to meet the client’s safety performance requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in maintaining or exceeding our clients’ requirements in this regard or that we will not lose the opportunity to bid on certain clients’ contracts. Our business could suffer if we are unsuccessful in negotiating new collective bargaining agreements. As of December 31, 2005, we had 5,277 employees worldwide. Of our employees, approximately 65% are located in the United States. Approximately 35% of our employees in the United States are covered by collective bargaining agreements. A new collective bargaining agreement with IAM Moore Lodge #1580 that represents employees at our Wellsville, New York facility was recently ratified. None of our material collective bargaining agreements will expire through the end of 2006, and one will expire in each of 2007 and 2008. In addition, we have an agreement with the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America whereby we hire skilled trade workers on a contract-by-contract basis. Our contract with the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America can be terminated by either party with 90 days’ prior written notice. Our operations in the following locations are unionized: Le Havre, France; Oberhausen, Germany; Kongsberg, Norway; and Naroda, India. Additionally, approximately 35% of our employees outside of the United States belong to industry or national labor unions. Although we believe that our relations with our employees are good, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in negotiating new collective bargaining agreements, that such negotiations will not result in significant increases in the cost of labor or that a breakdown in such negotiations will not result in the disruption of our operations. We are controlled by First Reserve, whose interests may not be aligned with yours. First Reserve has the ability to control our policies and operations including the appointment of management, the entering into of mergers, acquisitions, sales of assets, divestitures and other extraordinary transactions, future issuances of our common stock or other securities, the payments of dividends, if any, on our common stock, the incurrence of debt by us and amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws. For example, First Reserve could cause us to make acquisitions that increase our indebtedness or to sell revenue-generating assets. Additionally, First Reserve is in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. First Reserve may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as First Reserve continues to own a significant amount of our equity, even if such amount is less than 50%, it will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. In addition, in connection with the Acquisition, we entered into a stockholders agreement with First Reserve and certain management stockholders, which was amended and restated in connection with our initial public offering. The stockholders agreement provides that for so long as First Reserve holds at least 5% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, it may designate all of the nominees for election to our board of directors other than any independent directors. All stockholders that are a party to the stockholders agreement are obligated to vote their shares in favor of such nominees. Independent directors will be designated for nomination by our board of directors, however such independent nominees must be reasonably acceptable to First Reserve for so long as it holds at least 5% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. For so long as First Reserve holds at least 20% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, many significant decisions involving us require the approval of a majority of our board of directors and at least one director designated for nomination by First Reserve who is also an officer of First Reserve Corporation. For example, the following transactions are subject to such approval requirements: any acquisition or sale of assets involving amounts in excess of one percent of sales during any twelve month period, or any acquisition of another business or any equity of another entity; any merger, consolidation, substantial sale of assets or dissolution involving us or any of our material subsidiaries; any declaration of dividends; the issuance of common stock or other securities of us or any of our material subsidiaries; and any amendment to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or comparable organizational documents of our material subsidiaries. 19 Table of Contents If we continue to be a “controlled company” within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange rules, we intend to rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. Upon completion of the potential secondary offering of our common stock by D-R Interholding, LLC, if First Reserve continues to control a majority of our outstanding common stock, we will continue to be a “controlled company” within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange corporate governance standards. Under the New York Stock Exchange rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by another company is a “controlled company” and may elect not to comply with certain New York Stock Exchange corporate governance requirements, including (1) the requirement that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors, (2) the requirement that we have a nominating/corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities and (3) the requirement that we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities. We are currently utilizing these exemptions. As a result, we do not have a majority of independent directors nor do our nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees consist entirely of independent directors. Assuming 20,000,000 shares are sold in the potential secondary offering, we will no longer be a “controlled company” because First Reserve will own less than 50% of our common stock. Our historical financial information may not be comparable to future periods. The historical financial information included in this Form 10-K may not necessarily reflect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows in the future or the results of operations, financial position and cash flows that would have occurred if we had been a separate, independent entity during the periods presented. The historical financial information included in this Form 10-K does not reflect the many significant changes that have occurred in our capital structure, funding and operations as a result of the transactions or the additional costs we incur in operating as an independent company. For example, funds required for working capital and other cash needs historically were obtained from Ingersoll-Rand on an interest-free, intercompany basis without any debt service requirement. Furthermore, we were a limited partnership in the United States until October 29, 2004 and generally did not pay income taxes, but have since become subject to income taxes. We did not have a recent operating history as a stand-alone company prior to the Acquisition. Although we have a substantial operating history, prior to the Acquisition we were not operating as a stand-alone company. As a result of the Acquisition, we no longer have access to the borrowing capacity, cash flow, assets and services of Ingersoll-Rand and its other affiliates as we did while under Ingersoll-Rand’s control. We are a significantly smaller company than Ingersoll-Rand, with significantly fewer resources and less diversified operations. Consequently, our results of operations are more susceptible than those of Ingersoll-Rand to competitive and market factors specific to our business. We may be faced with unexpected product claims or regulations as a result of the hazardous applications in which our products are used. Because some of our products are used in systems that handle toxic or hazardous substances, a failure or alleged failure of certain of our products have resulted in and in the future could result in claims against our company for product liability, including property damage, personal injury damage and consequential damages. Further, we may be subject to potentially material liabilities relating to claims alleging personal injury as a result of hazardous substances incorporated into our products. Third parties may infringe our intellectual property or we may infringe the intellectual property of third parties, and we may expend significant resources enforcing or defending our rights or suffer competitive injury. Our success depends in part on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret laws, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. If we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our operating results. We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and police our intellectual property rights. Similarly, if we were to infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, our competitive position could suffer. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that any pending patent application or trademark application held by us will result in an issued patent or registered trademark, or that any issued or registered patents or trademarks will not be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. Also, 20 Table of Contents others may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology, duplicate or reverse engineer our technology or design around the patents owned or licensed by us. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights and protect our proprietary information, or to defend against claims by third parties that our products infringe their intellectual property rights. Any litigation or claims brought by or against us, whether with or without merit, or whether successful or not, could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation. Any intellectual property litigation or claims against us could result in the loss or compromise of our intellectual property and proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities, require us to seek licenses on unfavorable terms, prevent us from manufacturing or selling products and require us to redesign or, in the case of trademark claims, rename our products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our brand name may be subject to confusion. Our company’s name and principal mark is a combination of the names of our founder companies, Dresser Industries, Inc. and Ingersoll-Rand. We have acquired rights to use the “Rand” portion of our principal mark from Ingersoll-Rand, and the rights to use the “Dresser” portion of our name from Dresser, Inc., the successor of Dresser Industries, Inc., and an affiliate of First Reserve. If we lose the right to use either the “Dresser” or “Rand” portion of our name, our ability to build our brand identity could be negatively affected. The common stock and certain debt securities of Ingersoll-Rand and certain debt securities of Dresser, Inc. are publicly traded in the United States. Acts or omissions by these unaffiliated companies may adversely affect the value of the “Dresser” and “Rand” brand names or the trading price of our senior subordinated notes and our common stock. In addition, press and other third-party announcements or rumors relating to any of these unaffiliated companies may adversely affect the trading price of our senior subordinated notes and our common stock and the demand for our services and products, even though the events announced or rumored may not relate to us, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Natural gas operations entail inherent risks that may result in substantial liability to us. We supply products to the natural gas industry, which is subject to inherent risks, including equipment defects, malfunctions and failures and natural disasters resulting in uncontrollable flows of gas or well fluids, fires and explosions. These risks may expose our clients to liability for personal injury, wrongful death, property damage, pollution and other environmental damage. We also may become involved in litigation related to such matters. If our clients suffer damages as a result of the occurrence of such events, they may reduce their orders from us. Our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected as a result of such risks. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our debt service obligations. Our financial performance could be affected by our substantial indebtedness. As of December 31, 2005, our total indebtedness was approximately $598.2 million. In addition, we had $181.2 million of letters of credit outstanding and additional borrowings available under the revolving portion of our senior secured credit facility of $168.8 million. We may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our high level of indebtedness could have important consequences, including, but not limited to: • making it more difficult for us to pay interest and satisfy our debt obligations; • making it more difficult to self-insure and obtain surety bonds or letters of credit; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, research and development or other general corporate or business requirements; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and in our industry; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage. Our net cash flow generated from operating activities was $51.0 million, $57.7 million, $17.4 million and $212.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, the period January 1, 2004 through October 29, 2004, the period 21 Table of Contents October 30, 2004 through December 31, 2004 and for the year ended December 31, 2005, respectively. Our high level of indebtedness requires that we use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operating activities to pay principal of our indebtedness, which will reduce the availability of cash to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures, research and development or other general corporate or business activities, including future acquisitions. In addition, a substantial portion of our indebtedness bears interest at variable rates. If market interest rates increase, debt service on our variable-rate debt will rise, which would adversely affect our cash flow. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional capital or seek to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. We require a significant amount of cash to service our indebtedness. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our debt, and to fund planned capital expenditures and research and development efforts, will depend on our ability to generate cash. Our ability to generate cash is subject to economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that may be beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our senior secured credit facility or otherwise in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt, or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity. We might be unable to refinance any of our debt, including our senior secured credit facility or our senior subordinated notes, on commercially reasonable terms. The covenants in the senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes impose restrictions that may limit our operating and financial flexibility. Our senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes contain a number of significant restrictions and covenants that limit our ability to: • incur liens; • borrow money, guarantee debt and, in the case of restricted subsidiaries, sell preferred stock; • issue redeemable preferred stock; • pay dividends; • make redemptions and repurchases of certain capital stock; • make capital expenditures and specified types of investments; • prepay, redeem or repurchase subordinated debt; • sell assets or engage in acquisitions, mergers, consolidations and asset dispositions; • amend material agreements; • change the nature of our business; • engage in affiliate transactions; and • restrict dividends or other payments from restricted subsidiaries. The senior secured credit facility also requires us to comply with specified financial ratios and tests, including but not limited to, a maximum consolidated net leverage ratio and a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio. These covenants could materially and adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs. Furthermore, they may restrict our ability to expand, pursue our business strategies and otherwise conduct our business. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by circumstances and events beyond our control, such as prevailing economic conditions and changes in regulations, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to comply. A breach of these covenants could result in a default under the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes and/or the senior secured credit facility. If there were an event of default under the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes and/or the senior secured credit facility, the affected creditors could cause all amounts borrowed under these instruments to be due and payable immediately. Additionally, if we fail to repay indebtedness under our senior secured credit facility when it becomes due, the lenders under the senior secured 22 Table of Contents credit facility could proceed against the assets and capital stock which we have pledged to them as security. Our assets and cash flow might not be sufficient to repay our outstanding debt in the event of a default. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law may discourage a takeover attempt. Provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law impose various procedural and other requirements, which could make it more difficult for stockholders to effect certain corporate actions. For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of unissued series of preferred stock, without any vote or action by our stockholders. Thus, our board of directors can authorize and issue shares of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting or other rights of holders of our common stock. These rights may have the effect of delaying or deterring a change of control of our company. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. 