Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information provided in this report, you should carefully consider the risks described in this section. The risks described below are not the only risks that could impact our business—other risks currently deemed minor or additional risks not currently known to us could also impact our business. These and other factors could materially and adversely impact the value of your investment in our shares, meaning that you could lose all or part of your investment. Note that this section includes forward-looking statements and future expectations as of the date of this annual report. This discussion of Risk Factors should be read in conjunction with “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in Part II of this Form 10-K. Our growth strategy may prove unsuccessful. A significant part of our strategy involves enhancing our offerings to meet the needs of our customers through organic development, focused partnerships, and acquisitions. If we are unable to execute our growth strategy, or if we do so less capably than our competitors, our operating performance including our ability to generate additional revenues on a profitable basis may be adversely affected. If we are unable to consistently renew subscriptions for our offerings, our results could weaken. The majority of our revenue is based on subscriptions to our offerings. In 2010, we derived nearly 80% of our revenues from subscriptions, most of which were for a term of one year. Our operating results depend on our ability to achieve and sustain high annual renewal rates on existing subscriptions and to enter into new subscription arrangements on commercially acceptable terms. Our failure to achieve high annual renewal rates on commercially acceptable terms would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. The loss of, or the inability to attract and retain, key personnel could impair our future success. Our future success depends to a large extent on the continued service of our employees, including highly skilled subject matter experts as well as personnel in sales, marketing, product development, critical operational roles, and management including our executive officers. We must maintain our ability to attract, motivate, and retain highly qualified employees in order to support our customers and achieve business results. The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel or our inability to recruit replacements for such personnel or to otherwise attract, motivate, or retain qualified personnel could have a materially adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents If we are unable to successfully identify or effectively integrate acquisitions, our financial results may be adversely affected. As we continue pursuing selective acquisitions to support our business and our growth strategy, there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable candidates for successful acquisitions at acceptable prices. In addition, our ability to achieve the expected returns and synergies from our past and future acquisitions and alliances depends in part upon our ability to integrate the offerings, technology, administrative functions, and personnel of these businesses into our business in an efficient and effective manner. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in integrating acquired businesses or that our acquired businesses will perform at the levels we anticipate. In addition, our past and future acquisitions may subject us to unanticipated risks or liabilities or disrupt our operations. Our strategic investments and cost reduction initiatives may not result in anticipated savings or more efficient operations. Over the past several years, including in 2010, we implemented significant strategic initiatives to reduce our cost structure, standardize our operations, and improve our ability to grow. Certain of our most significant investments, including our business transformation initiative to consolidate and standardize our sales force automation, lead to cash, and all supporting systems (which we call “Vanguard”) and investments in infrastructure to support our growth strategy, are still in development and implementation phases. We must also continue to invest in enhancements to our existing products and development of new products to meet the needs of our customers and differentiate our offerings from those of our competitors. There is a risk that we may not realize the full potential benefit of these investments, that implementation of our strategic initiatives may be disruptive to our operations, and that cost overruns could have material adverse effects on our results of operations. We could experience system failures or capacity constraints that could interrupt the delivery of our offerings to customers and ultimately cause us to lose customers. Our ability to provide reliable service largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex systems, relying on people, process, and technology to function effectively. Some elements of these systems have been outsourced to third-party providers. Any significant interruption to, or failure of, these systems could severely harm our business and reputation. The impact could include a loss of customers and significant expenses, for instance to repair or replace equipment or facilities. The systems upon which we depend could be exposed to damage or interruption from a wide variety of threats, including power disruption, fire, flood, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry, computer viruses, terrorism, unavailability of a facility, loss or incapacitation of staff, or other natural or man-made disasters. This includes the possibility of failures at third party data centers, disruptions to the Internet, and the loss or failure of other systems over which we have no control. While we have taken and are taking steps to prevent and mitigate the damage of such events, including information backup and disaster recovery processes, those steps may not be effective and there can be no assurance that any such steps can be effective against all possible risks. In addition, our property and business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses or failures that may occur. We may not be able to protect intellectual property rights. We rely on copyright laws and nondisclosure, license, and confidentiality arrangements to protect our proprietary rights as well as the intellectual property rights of third parties whose content we license. However, we cannot assure you that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights, and the rights of those from whom we license intellectual property, are adequate to prevent 15 Table of Contents unauthorized use, misappropriation, or theft of our intellectual property. There is a risk that we may not be able to detect unauthorized uses or take timely and effective steps to remedy unauthorized conduct. In particular, a significant portion of our revenues are derived internationally, including jurisdictions where adequately protecting intellectual property rights may prove more challenging or impossible. To prevent or respond to unauthorized uses of our intellectual property, we might be required to engage in costly and time-consuming litigation and we may not ultimately prevail. We depend on content obtained through agreements with third parties to support certain of our offerings and the failure to maintain these agreements on commercially reasonable terms could prove harmful to our business. Certain of our offerings include content that is either purchased or licensed from third parties. In particular, our Specs and Standards offerings that support our Product Lifecycle domain strategy rely on information licensed from SDOs. Offerings that rely upon SDO information accounted for approximately 20% of our total revenue in 2010. We believe that the content licensed from many of these third parties, including the SDOs, cannot be obtained from alternate sources on favorable terms, if at all. Our license agreements with these third parties are generally nonexclusive and many are terminable on less than one year’s notice. In addition, many of these third parties, including the SDOs, compete with one another and us. As a result, we may not be able to maintain or renew these agreements at cost-effective prices, or these third parties might restrict or withdraw their content from us for competitive or other reasons, which could adversely affect the quality of our offerings and our business, operating results, and financial condition. We may be exposed to litigation related to content we make available to customers and we may face legal liability or damage to our reputation if our customers are not satisfied with our offerings or if our offerings are misused. Our business relies on licensing and delivering intellectual property to our customers and obtaining intellectual property from our suppliers. Accordingly, we may face potential liability for, among other things, breach of contract, negligence, and copyright and trademark infringement. Even litigation or infringement claims that lack merit may expose us to material expense or reputational damage. Damage to our reputation for any reason could materially adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers, employees, and information suppliers. In addition, if the information in our offerings is incorrect for any reason, or if it is misused or used inappropriately, we could be subject to reputational damage or litigation that could exceed the value of any insurance or legal remedies and materially adversely affect our business. We use a network of independent contractors and third parties whose actions could have an adverse effect on our business. We obtain some of our critical information from independent contractors, particularly for offerings that support our Energy products and for certain offerings under the IHS Jane’s brand. In addition, we rely on a network of third party dealers to sell our offerings in locations where we do not maintain a sales office or sales teams. We are limited in our ability to monitor and direct the activities of these independent contractors and dealers, but if any actions or business practices of these individuals or entities violate our policies or procedures or are otherwise deemed inappropriate or illegal, we could be subject to litigation, regulatory sanctions, or reputational damage, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business. As part of our strategic business model, we outsource certain operations and engage independent contractors to perform work in various locations around the world. For example, we outsourced certain of our data hosting and certain functions involving our data accumulation to business partners who we 16 Table of Contents believe offer us deep expertise in these areas, as well as scalability and cost effective services. By entering into these independent contractor arrangements and relying on them for critical business functions, we face risks that one or more independent contractors may unexpectedly cease operations, that they may perform work that deviates from our standards, that events in a given region may disrupt the independent contractor’s operations, or that we may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property. If these or other unforeseen risks were to occur, they could materially adversely affect our business. We operate in competitive markets, which may adversely affect our market share and financial results. We face competition in specific industries and with respect to specific offerings. We may also face competition from organizations and businesses that have not traditionally competed with us but that could adapt their products and services to meet the demands of our customers. Some of our competitors focus on product categories within our targeted industries while others have significant financial and information-gathering resources, recognized brands, technological expertise, and market experience. We believe that competitors are continuously enhancing their products and services, developing new products and services, and investing in technology to better serve the needs of their existing customers and to attract new customers. Increased competition may require us to reduce the prices of our offerings or make additional capital investments that could adversely affect our margins. Some of the critical information we use in our offerings is publicly available in raw form at little or no cost. The Internet, widespread availability of sophisticated search engines, and pervasive wireless data delivery have simplified the process of locating, gathering, and disseminating data, potentially diminishing the perceived value of our offerings. While we believe our offerings are distinguished by such factors as currency, accuracy and completeness and our analysis and other added value, if users choose to obtain the information they need from public or other sources, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely and materially affected. Our brand and reputation are key assets and competitive advantages of our Company and our business may be affected by how we are perceived in the marketplace. Our ability to attract and retain customers is highly dependent upon the external perceptions of our brand and reputation. Reputational damage from negative perceptions or publicity could damage our reputation with customers and the public, which could make it difficult for us to attract and maintain customers. Although we monitor developments for areas of potential risk to our reputation and brand, negative perceptions or publicity could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Our international operations are subject to exchange rate fluctuations and other risks relating to operations outside of the U.S. We operate in over 100 countries around the world and a significant part of our revenue comes from international sales. In 2010, we generated approximately 47% of our revenues from sales outside the United States. We earn revenues, pay expenses, own assets, and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the U.S. dollar, including among others the British Pound, the Canadian Dollar, and the Swiss Franc. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenues, income, expenses, and the value of assets and liabilities into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. We may use derivative financial instruments to reduce our net exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Nevertheless, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies can materially 17 Table of Contents affect our net operating revenues, operating income, and the value of balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies. Operations outside of the United States may be affected by changes in trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; social, political, labor or economic conditions in a specific country or region; and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations. In addition, we must manage the uncertainties of obtaining data and creating solutions that are relevant to particular geographic markets; differing levels of intellectual property protection in various jurisdictions; and restrictions or limitations on the repatriation of funds. Our inability to manage this risk could have a materially adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Our business performance might not be sufficient for us to meet the full-year financial guidance that we provide publicly. We provide full-year financial guidance to the public based upon our assumptions regarding our expected financial performance. For example, we provide assumptions regarding our ability to grow revenue and to achieve our profitability targets. While we believe that our annual financial guidance provides investors and analysts with insight to our view of the company’s future performance, such financial guidance is based on assumptions that may not always prove to be accurate and may vary from actual results. If we fail to meet the full-year financial guidance that we provide, or if we find it necessary to revise such guidance during the year, the market value of our common stock could be materially adversely affected. The price of our common stock may be volatile and may be affected by market conditions beyond our control. Our share price is likely to fluctuate in the future because of the volatility of the stock market in general and a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. For instance, if our investors sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or if there is a perception that such sales could occur, it could adversely affect the market price of our shares. Market fluctuations could result in volatility in the price of shares of our common stock, one possible outcome of which could be a decline in the value of your investment. In addition, if our operating results fail to meet the expectations of stock analysts or investors, or if we are perceived by the market to suffer material business or reputational damage, we may experience an immediate and significant decline in the trading price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 18 Table of Contents 