ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other documents we file with the SEC are descriptions of the risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. Changes in consumer preferences and discretionary spending may have a material adverse effect on our revenue, results of operations and financial condition. Our success depends, in part, upon the popularity of our products and our ability to develop new menu items that appeal to consumers. Shifts in consumer preferences away from our products, our inability to develop new 14 Table of Contents menu items that appeal to consumers, or changes in our menu that eliminate items popular with some consumers could harm our business. Also, our success depends to a significant extent on discretionary consumer spending, which is influenced by general economic conditions and the availability of discretionary income. Accordingly, we may experience declines in revenue during economic downturns or during periods of uncertainty, similar to those which followed the terrorist attacks on the United States. Any material decline in the amount of discretionary spending could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, results of operations, business and financial condition. Our inability to compete with the many food services businesses may result in reductions in our revenue and profit margins. We compete with many well-established companies, food service and otherwise, on the basis of taste, quality and price of product offered, customer service, atmosphere, location and overall guest experience. We compete with other smoothie and juice bar retailers, specialty coffee retailers, yogurt and ice cream shops, bagel shops, fast-food restaurants, delicatessens, cafés, bars, take-out food service companies, supermarkets and convenience stores. Our competitors change with each of the four dayparts (breakfast, lunch, afternoon and dinner), ranging from coffee bars and bakery cafes to casual dining chains. Aggressive pricing by our competitors or the entrance of new competitors into our markets could reduce our revenue and profit margins. We also compete with other employers in our markets for hourly workers and may become subject to higher labor costs as a result of such competition. Fluctuations in various food and supply costs, particularly fruit and dairy, could adversely affect our operating results. The prices of fruit and dairy, which are the main products in our offerings, can be highly volatile. Fruit of the quality we seek tends to trade on a negotiated basis, depending on supply and demand at the time of the purchase. Supplies and prices of the various products that we use to prepare our offerings can be affected by a variety of factors, such as weather, seasonal fluctuations, demand, politics and economics in the producing countries. An increase in pricing of any fruit that we use in our products could have a significant adverse effect on our profitability. We experienced increased cost of sales as a result of significant price increases in certain citrus products due to a hard freeze on the California citrus crop in January 2007. While the Company has added a surcharge to certain products that were affected by the freeze, the full financial impact of this has not been determined. In addition, higher diesel prices have, in some cases, resulted in the imposition of surcharges on the delivery of commodities to its distributors, which they have generally passed on to us to the extent permitted under our arrangements with them. Additionally, higher diesel and gasoline prices may affect our supply costs, near-term construction costs for our new stores and may affect our revenue going forward. To help mitigate the risks of volatile commodity prices and to allow greater predictability in pricing, we typically enter into fixed price or to-be-fixed priced purchase commitments for a portion of our fruit and dairy requirements. We cannot assure you that these activities will be successful or that they will not result in our paying substantially more for our fruit supply than would have been required absent such activities. While we do have some multi-year pricing agreements (with fixed processing costs), none of these agreements have guaranteed volume commitments. We are primarily dependent upon one supplier for a significant amount of our food distribution. We maintain food distribution contracts primarily with one supplier. This supplier, Southwest Traders, Inc., provided 82%, 85%, 87%, and 94% of product cost included in cost of sales for our fiscal 2006 and Jamba Juice Company’s fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, which potentially subjects us to a concentration of business risk. If this supplier had operational problems or ceased making product available to us, our operations could be adversely affected. 15 Table of Contents Litigation and publicity concerning food quality, health and other issues, which can result in liabilities and also cause customers to avoid our products, which could adversely affect our results of operations, business and financial condition. Food service businesses can be adversely affected by litigation and complaints from customers or government authorities resulting from food quality, allergens, illness, injury or other health concerns or operating issues stemming from one retail location or a limited number of retail locations. Adverse publicity about these allegations may negatively affect us, regardless of whether the allegations are true, by discouraging customers from buying our products. We could also incur significant liabilities, if a lawsuit or claim results in a decision against us, or litigation costs, regardless of the result. Our business could be adversely affected by increased labor costs or labor shortages. Labor is a primary component in the cost of operating our business. We devote significant resources to recruiting and training our team members. A considerable number of the team members employed by us and our franchisees are paid at rates related to the federal minimum wage. Accordingly, pending legislation to increase the federal minimum wage and any further increases in the federal minimum wage or the enactment of additional state or local minimum wage increases above federal wage rates will increase labor costs. If we are unable or unwilling to increase our menu prices or take other actions to offset increased operating costs, our operating results will suffer. Additionally, competition and labor shortages in various markets could result in higher required wage rates. Food safety concerns and instances of food-borne illnesses could harm our customers, result in negative publicity and cause the temporary closure of some stores and, in some cases, could adversely affect the price and availability of fruits and vegetables, any of which could harm our brand reputation, result in a decline in revenue or an increase in costs. We consider food safety a top priority and dedicate substantial resources towards ensuring that our customers enjoy high-quality, safe and wholesome products. However, we cannot guarantee that our internal controls and training will be fully effective in preventing all food-borne illnesses. Furthermore, our reliance on third-party food suppliers and distributors increases the risk that food-borne illness incidents (such as e. coli, hepatitis A, salmonella or listeria) could occur outside of our control and at multiple locations. Instances of food-borne illnesses, whether real or perceived, and whether at our stores or those of our competitors, could harm customers and otherwise result in negative publicity about us or the products we serve, which could adversely affect revenue. If there is an incident involving our stores serving contaminated products, our customers may be harmed, our revenue may decrease and our brand name may be impaired. If our customers become ill from food-borne illnesses, we could be forced to temporarily close some stores. If we react to negative publicity by changing our menu or other key aspects of the Jamba Juice experience, we may lose customers who do not accept those changes, and may not be able to attract enough new customers to produce the revenue needed to make our stores profitable. In addition, we may have different or additional competitors for our intended customers as a result of making any such changes and may not be able to compete successfully against those competitors. Food safety concerns and instances of food-borne illnesses and injuries caused by food contamination have in the past, and could in the future, adversely affect the price and availability of affected ingredients and cause customers to shift their preferences, particularly if we choose to pass any higher ingredient costs along to consumers. As a result, our costs may increase and our revenue may decline. A decrease in customer traffic as a result of these health concerns or negative publicity, or as a result of a change in our menu or dining experience or a temporary closure of any of our stores, could materially harm our business. The food service industry has inherent operational risks that may not be adequately covered by insurance. We can give no assurance that we will be adequately insured against all risks or that our insurers will pay a particular claim. Furthermore, in the future, we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at 16 Table of Contents reasonable rates for our operations. We may also be subject to calls, or premiums, in amounts based not only on our own claim records but also the claim records of all other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive indemnity insurance coverage for tort liability. Our insurance policies also contain deductibles, limitations and exclusions which, although we believe are standard in the food service industry, may nevertheless increase our costs. We may face difficulties entering into new or modified arrangements with existing or new suppliers or new service providers. As we expand our operations, we may have to seek new suppliers and service providers or enter into new arrangements with existing ones, and we may encounter difficulties or be unable to negotiate pricing or other terms as favorable as those we currently enjoy, which could harm our business and operating results. However, because we currently have not begun to negotiate new or amended contracts with suppliers and service providers, we cannot now quantify with greater certainty potential increases in its expenses. The planned increase in the number of our stores may make our future results unpredictable. There were 373 Company Stores and 222 Franchise Stores open as of January 9, 2007. We plan to increase the number of our stores in the future. This growth strategy and the substantial investment associated with the development of each new store may cause our operating results to fluctuate and be unpredictable or adversely affect our profits. Our future results depend on various factors, including successful selection of new markets and store locations, market acceptance of the Jamba Juice experience, consumer recognition of the quality of our products and willingness to pay our prices (which reflect our often higher ingredient costs), and the quality of our operations and general economic conditions. In addition, as with the experience of other retail food concepts who have tried to expand nationally, we may find that the Jamba Juice concept has limited or no appeal to customers in new markets or we may experience a decline in the popularity of the Jamba Juice experience. Newly opened stores may not succeed, future markets and stores may not be successful and, even if we are successful, our average store revenue may not increase at historical rates. Our revenue growth rate depends primarily on our ability to open new stores and is subject to many unpredictable factors. We may not be able to open new stores as quickly as planned. We have experienced delays in opening some stores and that could happen again. Delays or failures in opening new stores could materially and adversely affect our growth strategy and expected results. As we operate more stores, our rate of expansion relative to the size of our store base will decline. In addition, one of our biggest challenges is locating and securing an adequate supply of suitable new store sites. Competition for those sites in our target markets is intense, and lease costs are increasing (particularly for urban locations). Our ability to open new stores also depends on other factors, including: • negotiating leases with acceptable terms; • hiring and training qualified operating personnel in local markets; • managing construction and development costs of new stores at affordable levels, particularly in competitive markets; • the availability of construction materials and labor; • the availability of, and our ability to obtain, adequate supplies of ingredients that meet our quality standards; • securing required governmental approvals (including construction, parking and other permits) in a timely manner; and • the impact of inclement weather, natural disasters and other calamities, such as hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005. 17 Table of Contents Our revenue and profit growth could be adversely affected if comparable store revenue are less than expected. While future revenue growth will depend substantially on our plans for new store openings, the level of comparable store revenue will also affect our revenue growth and will continue to be an important factor affecting profit growth. This is because the profit margin on comparable store revenue is generally higher than the profit margin on new store openings, as comparable store revenue enable fixed costs to be spread over a higher revenue base. Our ability to increase comparable store revenue depends in part on our ability to launch new products, implement successfully our initiatives to increase throughput and raise prices to absorb cost increases. It is possible that we will not achieve our targeted comparable store revenue growth or that the change in comparable store revenue could be negative. If this were to happen, revenue and profit growth would be adversely affected. Our failure to manage our growth effectively could harm our business and operating results. Our plans call for a significant number of new stores. Our existing store management systems, financial and management controls and information systems may be inadequate to support our expansion. Managing our growth effectively will require us to continue to enhance these systems, procedures and controls and to hire, train and retain store managers and crew. We may not respond quickly enough to the changing demands that our expansion will impose on our management, employees and existing infrastructure. We also place a lot of importance on our culture, which we believe has been an important contributor to our success. As we grow, however, we may have difficulty maintaining our culture or adapting it sufficiently to meet the needs of our operations. Our failure to manage our growth effectively could harm our business and operating results. New stores, once opened, may not be profitable, and the increases in average store revenue and comparable store revenue that we have experienced in the past may not be indicative of future results. Historically, our new stores have opened with an initial ramp-up period typically lasting approximately 24 months or more, during which they generated revenue and profit below the levels at which we expect them to normalize. This is in part due to the time it takes to build a customer base in a new market, higher fixed costs relating to increased construction and occupancy costs and other start-up inefficiencies that are typical of new stores. New stores may neither be profitable nor have results comparable to our existing stores. In addition, our average store revenue and comparable store revenue may not continue to increase at the rates achieved over the past several years. Our ability to operate new stores profitably and increase average store revenue and comparable store revenue will depend on many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • executing our vision effectively; • initial revenue performance of new stores; • competition, either from our competitors in the smoothie industry or our own stores; • changes in consumer preferences and discretionary spending; • consumer understanding and acceptance of the Jamba Juice experience; • road construction and other factors limiting access to new stores; • general economic conditions, which can affect store traffic, local labor costs and prices we pay for the ingredients and other supplies we use; and • changes in government regulation. If our new stores don’t perform as planned, our business and future prospects could be harmed. In addition, changes in our average store revenue or comparable store revenue could cause our operating results to vary adversely from expectations. 18 Table of Contents Our expansion into new markets may present increased risks due to our unfamiliarity with those areas. Some of our new stores are planned for markets where we have little or no operating experience. Those markets may have different competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns than our existing markets. As a result, those new stores may be less successful than stores in our existing markets. Consumers in a new market may not be familiar with the Jamba Juice brand, and we may need to build brand awareness in that market through greater investments in advertising and promotional activity than we originally planned. We may find it more difficult in new markets to hire, motivate and keep qualified employees who can project our vision, passion and culture. Stores opened in new markets may also have lower average store revenue than stores opened in existing markets, and may have higher construction, occupancy or operating costs than stores in existing markets. What’s more, we may have difficulty in finding reliable suppliers or distributors or ones that can provide us, either initially or over time, with adequate supplies of ingredients meeting our quality standards. Revenue at stores opened in new markets may take longer to ramp up and reach expected revenue and profit levels, and may never do so, thereby affecting overall profitability. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly and could fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors due to various factors. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly because of various factors, including: • the impact of inclement weather, natural disasters and other calamities, such as hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005, or earthquakes, particularly those that may occur near our Company’s support center in Northern California; • unseasonably cold or wet weather conditions; • the timing of new store openings and related revenue and expenses; • operating costs at our newly opened stores, which are often materially greater during the first several months of operation; • labor availability and wages of store management and team members; • profitability of our stores, especially in new markets; • changes in comparable store revenue and customer visits, including as a result of the introduction of new menu items; • variations in general economic conditions, including those relating to changes in gasoline prices; • negative publicity about the ingredients we use or the occurrence of food-borne illnesses or other problems at our stores; • changes in consumer preferences and discretionary spending; • increases in infrastructure costs; • fluctuations in supply prices; and • fluctuations in the fair value of the derivative liability associated with outstanding warrants. Because of these factors, results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for any year. Average store revenue or comparable store revenue in any particular future period may decrease. In the future, operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. Our business and results may be subject to disruption from work stoppages, terrorism or natural disasters. Our operations may be subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including work stoppages, acts of war, terrorism, pandemics, fire, earthquake, flooding or other natural disasters. In particular, our corporate offices and 19 Table of Contents support center is located in Northern California, near known earthquake fault lines. If a major earthquake or other natural disaster were occur in Northern California, our corporate offices and support center may be damaged or destroyed. Such a disruption could result in the temporary or permanent loss of critical data, suspension of operations, delays in shipments of product and disruption of business in both the affected region and nation wide, which would adversely affect our revenue as a result. Our success depends substantially upon the continued retention of certain key personnel. We believe that our success has depended and continues to depend to a significant extent on the efforts and abilities of our senior management team. Except for Paul E. Clayton, Donald D. Breen and Karen Kelley, the members of our management team currently are employed on an “at-will” basis and may resign from employment at any time. Our failure to retain any of these individuals could adversely affect our ability to build on the efforts they have undertaken with respect to the Jamba Juice business. Our franchisees could take actions that harm our reputation and reduce our royalty revenue. Franchisees are independent contractors and are not our employees. Further, we do not exercise control over the day-to-day operations of our franchise stores. Any operational or development shortcomings of our franchise stores are likely to be attributed to our system-wide operations and could adversely affect our reputation and have a direct negative impact on the royalty revenue we receive from those stores. Our revenue is subject to volatility based on weather and varies by season. Seasonal factors also cause our revenue to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Our revenue is typically lower during the Winter months and the holiday season and during periods of inclement weather (because fewer people choose cold beverages) and higher during the Spring, Summer and Fall months (for the opposite reason). Our revenue will likely also vary as a result of the number of business days, that is, the number of days in a quarter when a store is open. We could face liability from our franchisees and from government agencies. A franchisee or government agency may bring legal action against us based on the franchisee/ franchisor relationships. Various state and federal laws govern our relationship with our franchisees and potential revenue of our franchised restaurants. If we fail to comply with these laws, we could be liable for damages to franchisees and fines or other penalties. Expensive litigation with our franchisees or government agencies may adversely affect both our profits and our important relations with our franchisees. We are subject to all of the risks associated with leasing space subject to long-term non-cancelable leases and, with respect to the real property that we may own, in the future. We compete for real estate and our inability to secure appropriate real estate or lease terms could impact the ability to grow. Our leases generally have initial terms of between five and 15 years, and generally can be extended only in five-year increments (at increased rates) if at all. Additionally, in certain instances, there may be change in control provisions in the lease which put us in a competitive disadvantage when negotiating extensions or which require us to get landlord consent for certain transactions. All of our leases require a fixed annual rent, although some require the payment of additional rent if store revenue exceeds a negotiated amount. Generally, our leases are “net” leases, which require us to pay all of the cost of insurance, taxes, maintenance and utilities. We generally cannot cancel these leases. Additional sites that we may lease are likely to be subject to similar long-term non-cancelable leases. If an existing or future store is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may nonetheless be committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease including, among other things, paying the base rent for the balance of the lease term. In addition, as each of our leases expire, we may fail to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause us to close stores in 20 Table of Contents desirable locations. Current locations of our stores and franchised locations may become unattractive as demographic patterns change. Restaurant companies, including Jamba Juice, have been the target of class action lawsuits and other proceedings alleging, among other things, violations of federal and state workplace and employment laws. Proceedings of this nature, if successful, could result in our payment of substantial damages. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by legal or governmental proceedings brought by or on behalf of employees or customers. In recent years, a number of restaurant companies, including Jamba Juice Company, have been subject to lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, alleging violations of federal and state law regarding workplace and employment matters, discrimination and similar matters. A number of these lawsuits have resulted in the payment of substantial awards by the defendants. Similar lawsuits have been instituted against us in the past alleging violations of state and federal wage and hour laws and failure to pay for all hours worked. Although we are not currently a party to any material class action lawsuits, we could incur substantial damages and expenses resulting from lawsuits, which would increase the cost of operating the business and decrease the cash available for other such uses. Governmental regulation may adversely affect our ability to open new stores or otherwise adversely affect our existing and future operations and results. We are subject to various federal, state and local regulations. Each of our stores is subject to state and local licensing and regulation by health, sanitation, food and workplace safety and other agencies. We may experience material difficulties or failures in obtaining the necessary licenses or approvals for new stores, which could delay planned store openings. In addition, stringent and varied requirements of local regulators with respect to zoning, land use and environmental factors could delay or prevent development of new stores in particular locations. We are subject to the U.S. Americans with Disabilities Act and similar state laws that give civil rights protections to individuals with disabilities in the context of employment, public accommodations and other areas. We may in the future have to modify stores, for example by adding access ramps or redesigning certain architectural fixtures, to provide service to or make reasonable accommodations for disabled persons. The expenses associated with these modifications could be material. Our operations are also subject to the U.S. Fair Labor Standards Act, which governs such matters as minimum wages, overtime and other working conditions, along with the U.S. Americans with Disabilities Act, family leave mandates and a variety of similar laws enacted by the states that govern these and other employment law matters. In addition, federal proposals to introduce a system of mandated health insurance and flexible work time and other similar initiatives could, if implemented, adversely affect our operations. In recent years, there has been an increased legislative, regulatory and consumer focus on nutrition and advertising practices in the food industry. Establishments operating in the quick-service and fast-casual segments have been a particular focus. For example, the New York City Board of Health has adopted a regulation requiring that restaurants that make calorie information publicly available must include that information on their menus and menu boards. We may in the future become subject to other initiatives in the area of nutrition disclosure or advertising, such as requirements to provide information about the nutritional content of our food, which could increase our expenses. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm the value of our brand and adversely affect our business. Our intellectual property is material to the conduct of our business. Our ability to implement our business plan successfully depends in part on our ability to build further brand recognition using our trademarks, service marks, trade dress and other proprietary intellectual property, including our name and logos and the unique 21 Table of Contents ambiance of our stores both domestically and overseas. We have secured the ownership and rights to our marks in the United States and have filed or obtained registrations for restaurant services in most other significant foreign jurisdictions. If our efforts to protect our intellectual property are inadequate, or if any third party misappropriates or infringes on our intellectual property, either in print or on the internet, the value of our brands may be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and might prevent our brands from achieving or maintaining market acceptance. While we have not encountered claims from prior users of intellectual property relating to restaurant services in areas where we operate or intend to conduct operations, there can be no assurances that we will not encounter such claims. If so, this could harm our image, brand or competitive position and cause us to incur significant penalties and costs. We could be party to litigation that could adversely affect us by distracting management, increasing our expenses or subjecting us to material money damages and other remedies. Our customers occasionally file complaints or lawsuits against us alleging that we are responsible for some illness or injury they suffered at or after a visit to our stores, or that we have problems with food quality or operations. We are also subject to a variety of other claims arising in the ordinary course of our business, including personal injury claims, contract claims and claims alleging violations of federal and state law regarding workplace and employment matters, discrimination and similar matters, and we could become subject to class action or other lawsuits related to these or different matters in the future. Regardless of whether any claims against us are valid, or whether we are ultimately held liable, claims may be expensive to defend and may divert time and money away from our operations and hurt our performance. A judgment significantly in excess of our insurance coverage, or for which we are not covered by insurance, could materially and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Any adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may also materially and adversely affect our reputation or prospects, which in turn could adversely affect our results. In addition, the food services industry has been subject to a growing number of claims based on the nutritional content of food products they sell and disclosure and advertising practices. We may also be subject to this type of proceeding in the future and, even if not, publicity about these matters (particularly directed at the quick-service and fast-casual segments of the industry) may harm our reputation or prospects and adversely affect our results. We may also incur costs resulting from other security risks we may face in connection with our electronic processing and transmission of confidential customer information. We rely on commercially available software and other technologies to provide security for processing and transmission of customer credit card data. Approximately 27% of our current revenue is attributable to credit card transactions, and that percentage is expected to climb. Our systems could be compromised in the future, which could result in the misappropriation of customer information or the disruption of systems. Either of those consequences could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and business or subject it to additional liabilities. We are exposed to increased costs and risks associated with compliance with changing laws, regulations and standards in general, and specifically with increased and new regulation of corporate governance and disclosure standards. We are spending an increased amount of management time and external resources to comply with existing and changing laws, regulations and standards in general, and specifically relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations, PCAOB and NASDAQ Stock Market rules. In particular, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires management to annually review and evaluate of our internal control systems, and file attestations of the effectiveness of these systems by our management and by our independent registered public accounting firm. This process will require us to hire additional personnel and use outside advisory services and result in additional accounting and legal 22 Table of Contents expenses. If our chief executive officer, chief financial officer or independent registered public accounting firm determine that our controls over financial reporting are not effective as defined under Section 404, investor perceptions may be adversely affected and could cause a decline in the market price or our stock. For example, in connection with the preparation of our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 9, 2007, we discovered a control deficiency related to the accounting for large, complex non-routine transactions that constituted a material weakness as of January 9, 2007. If our independent registered public accounting firm are unable to provide an unqualified attestation of management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, or disclaim an ability to issue an attestation, it could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports, adversely affect our stock price and our ability to access the capital markets or borrow money, and may subject us to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities. Failure to comply with other existing and changing laws, regulations and standards could also adversely affect the Company. Results of operations may be volatile as a result of the impact of fluctuations in the fair value of our outstanding warrants from quarter to quarter. Our outstanding warrants are classified as derivative liabilities and therefore, their fair values are recorded as derivative liabilities on our balance sheet. Changes in the fair values of the warrants will result in adjustments to the amount of the recorded derivative liabilities and the corresponding gain or loss will be recorded in our statement of operations. We are required to assess these fair values of derivative liabilities each quarter and as the value of the warrants is quite sensitive to changes in the market price of our stock, among other things, fluctuations in such value could be substantial and could cause our results to not meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors. These fluctuations will continue to impact our results of operations as described above for as long as the warrants are outstanding. If persons engage in short sales of our common stock the price of our common stock may decline. Selling short is a technique used by a stockholder to take advantage of an anticipated decline in the price of a security. In addition, holders of options and warrants will sometimes sell short knowing they can, in effect, cover through the exercise of an option or warrant, thus locking in a profit. A significant number of short sales or a large volume of other sales within a relatively short period of time can create downward pressure on the market price of a security. Further sales of common stock issued upon exercise of our outstanding warrants could cause even greater declines in the price of our common stock due to the number of additional shares available in the market upon such exercise, which could encourage short sales that could further undermine the value of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 