Item 1A. Risk Factors. The Company’s stockholders and any potential investor in the Company’s Common Stock should carefully review and consider each of the following risk factors, as well as all other information appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, relating to investment in our Common Stock. The Company’s business faces numerous risks and uncertainties, the most significant of which are described below. If any of the following risks actually occur, the business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows of the Company could be materially adversely affected, the market price of the Company’s Common Stock could decline significantly, and a stockholder could lose all or part of an investment in the Company’s Common Stock. The Company has a history of losses and has only achieved profitability in the past year. Although the Company was profitable in 2008, it incurred losses in each year between its inception in December 2003 and December 2007 and has an accumulated deficit of approximately $3.7 million as of December 31, 2008. The Company will need to maintain similar levels of claims volume and revenue as it had in 2008 in order to maintain profitability. No assurances can be given that the Company will be able to continue to grow at the current pace or to continue to operate profitably in the future. The Company’s prospects must be considered in light of the numerous risks, expenses, delays and difficulties frequently encountered in an industry characterized by intense competition, as well as the risks inherent in the development of new programs and the commercialization of new services, particularly given its operating history through 2007. 7 The Company has a limited number of clients, a few of which account for a substantial portion of its business, and failure to retain such clients could have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations. Our two largest clients, HealthSmart Preferred Care, Inc. (“HealthSmart”) and Viant Holdings, Inc. (“Viant”), accounted for an aggregate of approximately 98% of our revenue during 2008; 59% of our revenue during 2008 was derived from HealthSmart. In 2007, our two largest clients accounted for 93% of our revenue, and 65% of our revenue during 2007 was generated from HealthSmart. The loss of either one of these clients or significant declines in the level of use of our services by one or more of these clients (as would be the case, for example, if our clients decide to contract directly with ancillary healthcare service providers), without replacement by new business, would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. The client contract with Viant expires on May 20, 2011 and automatically renews for successive one-year periods unless either party delivers a written notice of non-renewal at least 90 days prior to expiration. Such contract may be terminated for convenience by Viant upon two years notice to us or upon thirty (30) days’ notice in the event of a breach. The client contract with HealthSmart, which was set to expire on July 31, 2009, was amended on December 31, 2008. The term was extended four years and will expire on December 31, 2012. There can be no assurance that any client will maintain its contract with us or after the expiration of the then-current term that it will renew its contract on terms favorable to us. Consequently, the Company’s failure to retain such clients could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Additionally, an adverse change in the financial condition of any of these clients, particularly HealthSmart or Viant, including an adverse change as a result of a change in governmental or private reimbursement programs, could have a material adverse effect on our business. The current financial crisis may reduce our revenue and profitability and harm our growth prospects. While the Company has not experienced a decline in its operations as a result of the recent financial crisis, it may be affected in the future in at least two ways. First, to the extent that there are significant increases in unemployment, fewer people may participate in insurance programs with our customers. Second, plan participants, seeking to make their operations more cost effective, could make less frequent use of some ancillary services. In either case, we may receive less revenue and our profitability and growth could be adversely affected, depending on the extent of the declines. Finally, as with any business, the deterioration of the financial condition of our significant customers could have a corresponding adverse effect on us. Large competitors in the healthcare industry could choose to compete with us, reducing our margins. Some of these potential competitors may be our current clients. Traditional health insurance companies, specialty provider networks, and specialty healthcare services companies are potential competitors of the Company. These entities include well-established companies that may have greater financial, marketing and technological resources than we have. Pricing pressure caused by competition has caused many of these companies to reduce the prices charged to clients for core services and to pass on to clients a larger portion of the formulary fees and related revenues received from service providers. Increased price competition from such companies’ entry into the market could reduce our margins and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In fact, our clients could choose to establish their own network of ancillary care providers. As a result, we would not only lose the benefit of revenue from such clients, but we could face additional competition in our market. The Company is dependent upon payments from third party payors who may reduce rates of reimbursement. The Company’s profitability depends on payments provided by third-party payors. Competition for patients, efforts by traditional third-party payors to contain or reduce healthcare costs and the increasing influence of managed care payors, such as health maintenance organizations, have resulted in reduced rates of reimbursement in recent years. If continuing, these trends could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations unless it can implement measures to offset the loss of revenues and decreased profitability. In addition, changes in reimbursement policies of private and governmental third-party payors, including policies relating to the Medicare and Medicaid programs, could reduce the amounts reimbursed to the Company’s clients for the Company’s services provided through the Company, and consequently, the amount these clients would be willing to pay for the Company’s services. The Company is dependent upon its network of qualified providers and its provider agreements may be terminated at any time. The development of a network of qualified providers is an essential component of our business strategy. The typical form of agreement from ancillary healthcare providers provides that these agreements may be terminated at any time by either party with or without cause. If these agreements are terminated, such ancillary healthcare providers could enter into new agreements with our competitors which would have an adverse effect on our ability to continue our business as it is currently conducted. 8 For any given claim, the Company is subject to the risk of paying more to the provider than it receives from the customer. The Company’s agreements with its payor customers, on the one hand, and the service providers, on the other, are negotiated separately. The Company has complete discretion in negotiating both the prices it charges its payor customers and the financial terms of its agreements with the providers. As a result, the Company’s profit is primarily a function of the spread between the prices it has agreed to pay the service providers and the prices the Company’s payor customers have agreed to pay the Company. The Company bears the pricing/margin risk because it is responsible for providing the agreed-upon services to its payor customers, whether or not it is able to negotiate fees and other agreement terms with service providers that result in a positive margin for the Company. For example, during 2007, approximately 11% of claims were “loss claims” (that is, where the amount paid by the Company to the provider exceeded the amount received by the Company from the corresponding payor for that particular claim) and these loss claims, in the aggregate, comprised approximately $460,000, or 56% of the Company’s net loss in 2007. During 2008, the aggregate loss on loss claims was approximately $998,000. The loss claims represent 9% of all claims in 2008. There can be no assurances that the loss claim percentage will not be higher in future periods. If a higher percentage of the Company’s claims resulted in a loss, its results of operations and financial position would be adversely affected. The Company has significantly increased in size and may not be able to effectively process the claims submitted by its providers in a timely manner. Our size and the volume of claims has increased dramatically in the last few years. As a result, we have had to increase the size of our processing capabilities and our staff. If we are unable to effectively increase our processing speed and integrate new providers, we may be unable to process properly all claims submitted and this could have a negative impact on our relationships with clients, which in turn could lead to a loss of business. An interruption of data processing capabilities and telecommunications could negatively impact the Company’s operating results. Our business is dependent upon our ability to store, retrieve, process and manage data and to maintain and upgrade our data processing capabilities. An interruption of data processing capabilities for any extended length of time, loss of stored data, programming errors, other computer problems or interruptions of telephone service could have a material adverse effect on our business. Changes in state and federal regulations could restrict our ability to conduct our business. Numerous state and federal laws and regulations affect our business and operations. These laws and regulations include, but are not necessarily limited to: · healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations, which prohibit illegal referral and other payments; · the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 and related regulations, which regulate many healthcare plans; · mail pharmacy laws and regulations; · privacy and confidentiality laws and regulations; · consumer protection laws and regulations; · legislation imposing benefit plan design restrictions; · various licensure laws, such as managed care and third party administrator licensure laws; · drug pricing legislation; · Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement regulations; and · Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996. We believe we are operating our business in substantial compliance with all existing legal requirements material to the operation of our business. There are, however, significant uncertainties regarding the application of many of these legal requirements to our business, and there cannot be any assurance that a regulatory agency charged with enforcement of any of these laws or regulations will not interpret them differently or, if there is an enforcement action, that our interpretation would prevail. In addition, there are numerous proposed healthcare laws and regulations at the federal and state levels, many of which could materially affect our ability to conduct our business or adversely affect our results of operations. If the Company fails to comply with the requirements of HIPAA, it could face sanctions and penalties. HIPAA provides safeguards to ensure the integrity and confidentiality of health information. Violation of the standards is punishable by fines and, in the case of wrongful disclosure of individually identifiable health information, fines or imprisonment, or both. Although we intend to comply with all applicable laws and regulations regarding medical information privacy, failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our business. 9 Limited barriers to entry into the ancillary healthcare services market could result in greater competition. There are limited barriers to entering our market, meaning that it is relatively easy for other companies to replicate our business model and provide the same or similar services that we currently provide. Major benefit management companies and healthcare companies not presently offering ancillary healthcare services may decide to enter the market. These companies may have greater financial, marketing and other resources than are available to us. Competition from other companies may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s inability to react effectively to changes in the healthcare industry could adversely affect its operating results. In recent years, the healthcare industry has undergone significant change driven by various efforts to reduce costs, including trends toward managed care, cuts in Medicare reimbursements, and horizontal and vertical consolidation within the healthcare industry. Proposed changes to the U.S. healthcare system, including potential national healthcare reform, may increase governmental involvement in healthcare and ancillary healthcare services, and otherwise change the way payors, networks and service providers conduct their businesses. Healthcare organizations may react to these proposals and the uncertainty surrounding them by reducing or delaying purchases of cost control mechanisms and related services such as those provided by the Company. Other legislative or market-driven changes in the healthcare system that the Company cannot anticipate could also materially adversely affect our business. We cannot predict whether any healthcare reform efforts will be enacted and what effect any such reforms may have on our business or our clients. Our inability to react effectively to changes in the healthcare industry may result in a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. The continued services and leadership of the Company’s senior management is critical to its ability to maintain growth and any loss of key personnel could adversely affect its business. The future of our business depends to a significant degree on the skills and efforts of our senior executives, in particular our Chief Executive Officer, David S. Boone, and our Chief Financial Officer, Steven J. Armond. If we lose the services of any of our senior executives, and especially if any of our executives joins a competitor or forms a competing company, our business and financial performance could be seriously harmed. We have an employment agreement with Mr. Boone, which automatically renews on April 30th of each year for another one-year term. We have an employment agreement with Mr. Armond, which automatically renews on October 12 of each year for another one-year term. While we are in the process of obtaining life insurance coverage for Mr. Boone, we currently have no such coverage for him. A loss of any of our executive officers’ skills, knowledge of the industry, contacts and expertise could cause a setback to our operating plan and strategy. The Company may be unsuccessful in hiring and retaining skilled employees. The future growth of our business depends on our ability to hire and retain skilled employees. The Company may be unable to hire and retain the skilled employees needed to succeed in our business. Qualified employees are in great demand throughout the healthcare industry. Our failure to attract and retain sufficient skilled employees may limit the rate at which our business can grow, which will result in harm to our financial performance. An inability to adequately protect our intellectual property could harm the Company’s competitive position. We consider our methodologies, processes and know-how to be proprietary. We seek to protect our proprietary information through confidentiality agreements with our employees, as well as our clients and contracted service providers. The Company’s policy is to have its employees enter into a confidentiality agreement at the time employment begins, with the confidentiality agreement containing provisions prohibiting the employee from disclosing our confidential information to anyone outside of the Company, requiring the employee to acknowledge, and, if requested, assist in confirming the Company’s ownership of new ideas, developments, discoveries or inventions conceived by the employee during his or her employment with the Company, and requiring the assignment by the employee to the Company of proprietary rights to such matters that are related to our business. There can be no assurance that the steps taken by the Company to protect its intellectual property will be successful. If the Company does not adequately protect its intellectual property, its competitors may be able to use its technologies and erode or negate the Company’s competitive advantage in the market. 10 Fluctuations in the number and types of claims processed by the Company could make it more difficult to predict the Company’s revenues from quarter to quarter. Monthly fluctuations in the number of claims we process and the types of claims we process will impact the quarterly and annual results of the Company. Our margins vary depending on the type of ancillary healthcare service provided, the rates associated with those services and the overall mix of these claims, each of which will impact our profitability. Consequently, it may be difficult to predict our revenue from one quarter to another quarter. Future sales of the Company’s Common Stock, or the perception that these sales may occur, could depress the price of the Company’s Common Stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our Common Stock, or the perception in the public that such sales may occur, could cause the market price of the Company’s Common Stock to decline. This could also impair the Company’s ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. As of March 23, 2009, the Company had 15,419,442 shares of its Common Stock outstanding. Of the outstanding shares, 10,669,353 are freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act, unless the shares are held by one of our “affiliates” as such term is defined in Rule 144 of the Securities Act. An additional 4,750,089 shares are “restricted shares” as that term is defined under the Securities Act and may be sold from time to time pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-133110), which was declared effective on February 8, 2007 by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), or in reliance upon an exemption from registration available under the Securities Act. At March 23, 2008, warrants to purchase 2,065,645 shares of Common Stock of the Company were outstanding, and options to purchase 2,355,200 shares of Common Stock of the Company had been granted and were outstanding under the Company’s Amended and Restated 2005 Stock Option Plan. In addition, 393,292 shares of the Common Stock of the Company remain available for future grants of options to purchase shares of the Common Stock of the Company under the Company’s Amended and Restated 2005 Stock Option Plan. If all of the outstanding warrants are exercised and all options available under the Company’s Amended and Restated 2005 Stock Option Plan are issued and exercised, there will be approximately 20,233,579 shares of Common Stock of the Company outstanding. Some of our existing stockholders can exert control over us and may not make decisions that further the best interests of all stockholders. As of March 23, 2009, our officers, directors and principal stockholders (greater than 5% stockholders) together control beneficially approximately 60.5% of the outstanding Common Stock of the Company. As a result, these stockholders, if they act individually or together, may exert a significant degree of influence over our management and affairs and over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. Furthermore, the interests of this concentration of ownership may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders and, accordingly, they could cause us to enter into transactions or agreements which we would not otherwise consider. In addition, this concentration of ownership of the Company’s Common Stock may delay or prevent a merger or acquisition resulting in a change in control of the Company and might affect the market price of our Common Stock, even when such a change in control may be in the best interest of all of our stockholders. We are subject to the listing requirements of the Nasdaq Capital Market and there can be no assurances that we will continue to satisfy these listing requirements. Our common stock is listed on The Nasdaq Capital Market, and we are therefore subject to continued listing requirements, including requirements with respect to the market value of publicly-held shares and minimum bid price per share, among others, and requirements relating to board and audit committee independence. If we fail to satisfy one or more of the requirements, we may be delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market. If we are delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market and we are not able to list our common stock on another exchange, our common stock could be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board or on the “pink sheets”. As a result, we could face significant adverse consequences including, among others, a limited availability of market quotations for our securities and a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. 11 Item 