Item 1A. Risk Factors. Statements in this Annual Report under the captions “Business” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, as well as oral statements that may be made by us or by our officers, directors or employees acting on our behalf, that are not historical fact constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results to be materially different from the historical results or from any results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such factors include, but are not limited to, the risk factors set forth below. We do not intend to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements or to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events. We are a development stage company with no operating history and, accordingly, you will not have any basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a recently incorporated development stage company with no operating results to date. Since we do not have an operating history, you will have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business 11 objective, which is to acquire an operating business. We will not generate any revenues until, at the earliest, after the consummation of a business combination. If we are forced to liquidate before a business combination, our public stockholders will receive less than $8.00 per share upon distribution of the trust fund and our warrants will expire worthless. If we are unable to complete a business combination and are forced to liquidate our assets, the per-share liquidation will be less than $8.00 because of the expenses of the initial public offering, our general and administrative expenses and the costs of seeking a business combination. Furthermore, there will be no distribution with respect to our outstanding warrants and, accordingly, the warrants will expire worthless if we liquidate before the completion of a business combination. You will not be entitled to protections normally afforded to investors of blank check companies. Since the net proceeds of the initial public offering are intended to be used to complete a business combination with a target business that has not been identified, we may be deemed to be a “blank check” company under the United States securities laws. However, since we have net tangible assets in excess of $5,000,000 received from the successful consummation of the initial public offering and filed a Current Report on Form 8-K with the SEC upon consummation of the initial public offering including an audited balance sheet demonstrating this fact, we are exempt from rules promulgated by the SEC to protect investors of blank check companies such as Rule 419. Accordingly, investors will not be afforded the benefits or protections of those rules. Because we are not subject to Rule 419, our units will be immediately tradable and we have a longer period of time to complete a business combination in certain circumstances. Because there are numerous companies with a business plan similar to ours seeking to effectuate a business combination, it may be more difficult for us to complete a business combination. Based upon publicly available information, at least 38 similarly structured blank check companies have completed initial public offerings since August 2003 and a number of others have filed registration statements for initial public offerings. Of these companies, we believe that less than ten companies has consummated a business combination, while only a few, at best, have announced they have entered into a definitive agreement for a business combination, but have not consummated such business combination. Accordingly, we believe there we compete with a large number of blank check companies that are seeking to carry out a business plan similar to our business plan. While some of those companies have specific industries that they must complete a business combination in, a number of them may consummate a business combination in any industry they choose. We may therefore be subject to competition from these and other companies seeking to consummate a business plan similar to ours which will, as a result, increase demand for privately-held companies to combine with companies structured similarly to ours. Further, the fact that only a small number of such companies have completed a business combination or entered into a definitive agreement for a business combination may be an indication that there are only a limited number of attractive target businesses available to such entities or that many privately-held target businesses may not be inclined to enter into business combinations with publicly held blank check companies like us. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully compete for an attractive business combination. Additionally, because of this competition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectuate a business combination within the required time periods. If we are unable to find a suitable target business within such time periods, we will be forced to liquidate. If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced and the per-share liquidation price received by stockholders may be less than the approximately $7.43 per share sold in the initial public offering in trust as of December 31, 2005. Our placing of funds in trust may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Although we have and will seek to have vendors, prospective target businesses or other entities we engage execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public stockholders, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements or even if they 12 execute such agreements that they would be prevented from bringing claims against the trust fund. If any third party refuses to execute an agreement waiving such claims to the monies held in the trust account, we would perform an analysis of the alternatives available to us if we chose not to engage such third party and evaluate if such engagement would be in the best interest of our stockholders if such third party refused to waive such claims. Examples of possible instances where we may engage a third party that refused to execute a waiver include the engagement of a third party consultant whose particular expertise or skills are believed by management to be significantly superior to those of other consultants that would agree to execute a waiver or in cases where management is unable to find a provider of required services willing to provide the waiver. In any event, our management would perform an analysis of the alternatives available to it and would only enter into an agreement with a third party that did not execute a waiver if management believed that such third party’s engagement would be significantly more beneficial to us than any alternative. In addition, there is no guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and will not seek recourse against the trust account for any reason. Accordingly, the proceeds held in trust could be subject to claims which could take priority over the claims of our public stockholders and the per-share liquidation price could be less than the approximately $7.43 per share sold in the initial public offering in trust as of December 31, 2005, due to claims of such creditors. If we are unable to complete a business combination and are forced to liquidate, certain of our officers and directors, severally, in accordance with their respective beneficial ownership interests in us, will be personally liable under certain circumstances to ensure that the proceeds in the trust fund are not reduced by the claims of various vendors or other entities that are owed money by us for services rendered or products sold to us. However, we cannot assure you that they will be able to satisfy those obligations. Since we have not currently selected a particular industry or prospective target business with which to complete a business combination, we are currently unable to ascertain the merits or risks of the industry or target business in which we may ultimately operate. We may consummate a business combination with a company in any industry we choose and are not limited to any particular industry. Accordingly, there is no current basis for you to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the particular industry in which we may ultimately operate or the target business which we may ultimately acquire. To the extent we complete a business combination with a financially unstable company or an entity in its development stage, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations of those entities. If we complete a business combination with an entity in an industry characterized by a high level of risk, we may be affected by the currently unascertainable risks of that industry. For example, if we complete a business combination with a business in the healthcare industry, we may be subject to various regulatory risks such as risks relating to reimbursement from third party payors. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular industry or target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. We also cannot assure you that an investment in our securities will not ultimately prove to be less favorable than a direct investment, if an opportunity were available, in a target business. We may issue shares of our capital stock or debt securities to complete a business combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and likely cause a change in control of our ownership. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 70,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $.001 per share, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.001 per share. After the initial public offering and the exercise of the underwriters’ over-allotment option, there are 30,250,000 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants and the purchase option granted to Broadband Capital Management LLC, the representative of the underwriters) and all of the 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock available for issuance. Although we have no commitments as of yet to issue our securities, we may issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock or preferred stock, or a combination of common and preferred stock, to complete a business combination. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or any number of shares of our preferred stock: • may significantly reduce the equity interest of investors in the initial public offering; 13 • will likely cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and most likely also result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and • may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Similarly, if we issued debt securities, it could result in: • default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating cash flow after a business combination were insufficient to pay our debt obligations; • acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we have made all principal and interest payments when due if the debt security contained covenants that required the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves and any such covenant were breached without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; • our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security was payable on demand; and • our inability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, if the debt security contained covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such security was outstanding. Our officers and directors control a substantial interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring stockholder vote. Our officers and directors collectively own 15.8% of our issued and outstanding shares of our common stock. Any shares of common stock acquired by our initial stockholders in the aftermarket will be considered as part of the holding of the public stockholders and will have the same rights as other public stockholders, including voting and conversion rights with respect to a potential business combination. Accordingly, they may vote on a proposed business combination with respect to shares acquired in the aftermarket any way they so choose. Our board of directors is divided into three classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of three years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. It is unlikely that there will be an annual meeting of stockholders to elect new directors prior to the consummation of a business combination, in which case all of the current directors will continue in office at least until the consummation of the business combination. If there is an annual meeting, as a consequence of our “staggered” board of directors, only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election and our initial stockholders, including all of our officers and directors, because of their ownership position, will have considerable influence regarding the outcome. Accordingly, our initial stockholders will continue to exert control at least until the consummation of a business combination. In addition, our initial stockholders and their affiliates and relatives are not prohibited from purchasing our securities in the aftermarket. If they do, we cannot assure you that our initial stockholders will not have considerable influence upon the vote in connection with a business combination. It is likely that some of our current officers and directors will resign upon consummation of a business combination and we will have only limited ability to evaluate the management of the target business. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination will be totally dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. The future role of our key personnel following a business combination, however, cannot presently be fully ascertained. Although we expect several of our management and other key personnel, particularly our chairman of the board and chief executive officer, to remain associated with us following a business combination, we may employ other personnel following the business combination. Moreover, our current management will only be able to remain with the combined company after the consummation of a business combination if they are able to negotiate the same as part of any such combination. If we acquired a target business in an all-cash transaction, it would be more likely that current members of management would remain with us if they chose to do so. If a business combination were structured as a merger whereby the stockholders of the target company were to control the combined company following a business combination, it may be less likely that management would remain with the combined company unless it was negotiated as part of the transaction via the acquisition agreement, an employment agreement or other arrangement. In making the determination as to whether current management should remain with 14 us following the business combination, management will analyze the experience and skill set of the target business’ management and negotiate as part of the business combination that certain members of current management remain if it is believed that it is in the best interests of the combined company post-business combination. If management negotiates to be retained post-business combination as a condition to any potential business combination, such negotiations may result in a conflict of interest. While we intend to closely scrutinize any additional individuals we engage after a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company as well as United States securities laws which could cause us to have to expend time and resources helping them become familiar with such laws. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues which may adversely affect our operations. Our officers and directors may allocate their time to other businesses thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs. This could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which may result in a conflict of interest in allocating their time between our operations and other businesses. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination. All of our executive officers are engaged in several other business endeavors and are not obligated to contribute any specific number of hours per week to our affairs. If our executive officers’ other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Our officers and directors may in the future become affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. Our officers and directors may in the future become affiliated with entities, including other “blank check’ companies, engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. Additionally, our officers and directors may become aware of business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to us as well as the other entities with which they are or may be affiliated. Further, certain of our officers and directors are currently involved in other businesses that are similar to the business activities that we intend to conduct following a business combination. Due to these existing affiliations, they may have fiduciary obligations to present potential business opportunities to those entities prior to presenting them to us which could cause additional conflicts of interest. Accordingly, they may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. All of our officers and directors own shares of our common stock which will not participate in liquidation distributions and therefore they may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination. All of our officers and directors own shares of stock in our company which were issued prior to the initial public offering, but have waived their right to receive distributions with respect to those shares upon our liquidation upon our failure to complete a business combination. Additionally, our officers and directors purchased warrants in the open market following the initial public offering. The shares and warrants owned by our officers and directors and their affiliates will be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. In addition, because only a majority vote is needed to approve the business combination, our officers and directors may have a conflict of interest since they could vote against the business combination with respect to any shares purchased by them in the aftermarket and could exercise their conversion rights with respect to such shares if less than 20% of the public stockholders vote against the business combination and convert their shares. The personal and financial interests of our directors may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business and completing a business combination timely. Consequently, our directors’ and officers’ discretion in identifying and selecting a suitable target business may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our stockholders’ best interest. 15 If our common stock becomes subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. If at any time we have net tangible assets of $5,000,000 or less and our common stock has a market price per share of less than $5.00, transactions in our common stock may be subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: • make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; • receive the purchaser’s written agreement to a transaction prior to sale; • provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents which identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and which describe the market for these “penny stocks” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; and • obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a “penny stock” can be completed. If our common stock becomes subject to these rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our securities may be depressed, and you may find it more difficult to sell our securities. It is probable that we will only be able to complete one business combination with the proceeds of the initial public offering, which will cause us to be solely dependent on a single business and a limited number of services. Our initial business combination must be with a business or businesses with a collective fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets at the time of such acquisition. We may not be able to acquire more than one target business because of various factors, including possible complex accounting issues, which would include generating pro forma financial statements reflecting the operations of several target businesses as if they had been combined, and numerous logistical issues, which would include attempting to coordinate the timing of negotiations, proxy statement disclosure and closing with multiple target businesses. In addition, we would also be exposed to the risk that conditions to closings with respect to the acquisition of one or more of the target businesses would not be satisfied bringing the fair market value of the business combination below the required fair market value of 80% of our net assets threshold. Accordingly, while it is possible that we may attempt to effect our initial business combination with more than one target business, we are more likely to choose a single target business if deciding between one target business meeting such 80% threshold and comparable multiple target business candidates collectively meeting the 80% threshold. Consequently, it is probable that, unless the purchase price consists substantially of our equity, we will have the ability to complete only the initial business combination with the proceeds of the initial offering. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may be: • solely dependent upon the performance of a single business, or • dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of processes or services. In this case, we will not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities which may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry. Because of our limited resources and the significant competition for business combination opportunities, we may not be able to consummate an attractive business combination. We have encountered and expect to encounter intense competition from other entities having a business objective similar to ours, including venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds and operating businesses competing for acquisitions. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess greater 16 technical, human and other resources than we do and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While we believe that there are numerous potential target businesses that we could acquire with the net proceeds of the initial public offering, our ability to compete in acquiring certain sizable target businesses will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. In addition, we may not have enough cash available from funds outside of the trust account to make deposits or fund a “no-shop” provision in connection with a particular business combination which may cause us to be at a competitive disadvantage in pursuing the acquisition of target businesses. Further, the obligation we have to seek stockholder approval of a business combination may delay the consummation of a transaction, and our obligation to convert into cash the shares of common stock held by public stockholders in certain instances may reduce the resources available for a business combination. Additionally, our outstanding warrants, and the future dilution they potentially represent, may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses. Any of these obligations may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure the transaction or abandon a particular business combination. Although we believe that the net proceeds of the initial public offering are sufficient to allow us to consummate a business combination, we cannot currently ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. If the net proceeds of the initial public offering prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of the business combination or the depletion of the available net proceeds in search of a target business, or because we become obligated to convert into cash a significant number of shares from dissenting stockholders, we will be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that such financing would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. In addition, it is possible that we could use a portion of the funds not in the trust account to make a deposit, down payment or fund a “no-shop” provision with respect to a particular proposed business combination, although we do not have any current intention to do so. In the event that we were ultimately required to forfeit such funds (whether as a result of our breach of the agreement relating to such payment or otherwise), we may not have a sufficient amount of working capital available outside of the trust account to conduct due diligence and pay other expenses related to finding a suitable business combination without securing additional financing. If we were unable to secure additional financing, we would most likely fail to consummate a business combination in the allotted time and would be forced to liquidate. In addition, if we consummate a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target business. None of our officers, directors or stockholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination. Our outstanding warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of common stock and make it more difficult to effect a business combination. In connection with the initial public offering, as part of the units, we issued warrants to purchase 17,250,000 shares of common stock. We will also issue an option to purchase 750,000 units to the representative of the underwriters which, if exercised, will result in the issuance of an additional 750,000 warrants. To the extent we issue shares of common stock to effect a business combination, the potential for the issuance of substantial numbers of additional shares upon exercise of these warrants could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business as such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares issued to complete the business combination. Accordingly, our warrants and options may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of the target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares underlying the warrants could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future public financing. If and to the extent these warrants and options are exercised, you may experience dilution to your holdings. 17 If our initial stockholders exercise their registration rights, it may have an adverse effect on the market price our common stock and the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effect a business combination. Our initial stockholders are entitled to demand that we register the resale of their shares of common stock at any time after the date on which their shares are released from escrow, which, except in limited circumstances, will not be before June 29, 2008. If our initial stockholders exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their shares of common stock, then there will be an additional 3,750,000 shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market. The presence of this additional number of shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of the target business, as the stockholders of the target business may be discouraged from entering into a business combination with us or request a higher price for their securities as a result of these registration rights and the potential future effect their exercise may have on the trading market for our common stock. The American Stock Exchange may delist our securities from quotation on its exchange which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our securities are listed on the American Stock Exchange, a national securities exchange, and have been since the consummation of the initial public offering. We cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on the American Stock Exchange in the future prior to a business combination. Additionally, in connection with our business combination, it is likely that the American Stock Exchange may require us to file a new initial listing application and meet its initial listing requirements as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time. If the American Stock Exchange delists our securities from trading on its exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences including: • a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; • a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; • a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and • a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, our activities may be restricted, including: • restrictions on the nature of our investments; and • restrictions on the issuance of securities, which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. In addition, we may have imposed upon us burdensome requirements, including: • registration as an investment company; • adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and • reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. 18 We do not believe that our anticipated principal activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act of 1940. To this end, the proceeds held in trust may only be invested by the trust agent only in Treasury Bills issued by the United States with a maturity of 180 days or less or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. By restricting the investment of the proceeds to these instruments, we intend to meet the requirements for the exemption provided in Rule 3a-1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we were deemed to be subject to the act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expense that we have not allotted for. Because we may be deemed to have no “independent” directors, actions taken and expenses incurred by our officers and directors on our behalf will generally not be subject to “independent” review. Each of our directors owns shares of our common stock and, although no salary or other compensation will be paid to them for services rendered prior to or in connection with a business combination, they may receive reimbursement for out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them in connection with activities on our behalf such as identifying potential target businesses and performing due diligence on suitable business combinations. There is no limit on the amount of these out-of-pocket expenses and there will be no review of the reasonableness of the expenses by anyone other than our board of directors, which includes persons who may seek reimbursement, or a court of competent jurisdiction if such reimbursement is challenged. Because none of our directors may be deemed “independent,” we will generally not have the benefit of independent directors examining the propriety of expenses incurred on our behalf and subject to reimbursement. Although we believe that all actions taken by our directors on our behalf will be in our best interests, we cannot assure you that this will be the case. If actions are taken, or expenses are incurred that are not in our best interests, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations and the price of our stock held by the public stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our 2005 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 