Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information provided in this report, you should carefully consider the risks described in this section. The risks described below are not the only risks that could impact our business—other risks currently deemed minor or additional risks not currently known to us could also impact our business. These and other factors could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. Note that this section includes forward-looking statements and future expectations as of the date of this annual report. Growth and Acquisitions Our growth strategy may prove unsuccessful. Our growth strategy involves enhancing our offerings to meet our customers’ needs. Our success in meeting these needs depends in large part upon our ability to deliver consistent, high-quality, and timely offerings covering issues, developments and trends that our customers view as important. In addition, we plan to grow by achieving our strategy of being the leading source of Critical Information and Insight in our targeted information domains through profitable organic growth and acquisitions. If we are unable to execute our growth strategy, or if we do so less capably than our competitors, our operating performance including our ability to generate additional revenues on a profitable basis may be adversely affected. Our cost reduction and restructuring initiatives may not result in anticipated savings or more efficient operations. Over the past several years, we have implemented, and are continuing to implement, significant strategic initiatives to reduce our cost structure, standardize our operations, and improve our ability to grow. We have made significant investments, including our investment in new billing software. We have begun to implement our billing software into a global system. There is a risk that we may not realize the full potential benefit of these investments, that implementation of our strategic initiatives may be disruptive to our operations, or that cost overruns could have material adverse effects on our results of operations. If we are unable to successfully identify or effectively integrate acquisitions, our financial results may be adversely affected. We intend to continue to selectively pursue acquisitions to complement our organic growth. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable candidates for successful acquisitions at acceptable prices. In addition, our ability to achieve the expected returns and synergies from our past and future acquisitions and alliances depends in part upon our ability to integrate the offerings, technology, administrative functions, and personnel of these businesses into our business in an efficient and effective manner. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in integrating acquired businesses or that our acquired businesses will perform at the levels we anticipate. In addition, our past and future acquisitions may subject us to unanticipated risks or liabilities or disrupt our operations. Subscription Renewals If we are unable to consistently renew subscriptions for our offerings, our results could weaken. Much of our revenue is based on subscriptions to our offerings. In 2009, we derived approximately 77% of our revenues from subscriptions, most of which were for a term of one year. Our results depend on our ability to achieve and sustain high annual renewal rates on existing subscriptions and to enter into new subscription arrangements on commercially acceptable terms. Our failure to achieve high annual renewal rates on commercially acceptable terms would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. 15 Table of Contents International Operations Our international operations are subject to exchange rate fluctuations and other risks relating to operations outside of the U.S. We operate in over 100 countries around the world and a significant part of our revenue comes from international sales. In 2009, we generated approximately 47% of our revenues from sales outside the United States. We expect to increase our global operations over time. We earn revenues, pay expenses, own assets, and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the U.S. dollar, including among others the British pound, the Canadian dollar, and the Swiss franc. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenues, income, expenses, and the value of assets and liabilities into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. Therefore, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies will affect our net operating revenues, operating income, and the value of balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies. Because of the geographic diversity of our operations, weaknesses in some currencies might be offset by strengths in others over time. We may use derivative financial instruments to reduce our net exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations. However, significant fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies may adversely affect our net revenues, balance sheet, and operating profit. We are expanding our sales and marketing efforts in certain emerging markets. Expanding our business into emerging markets may present additional risks beyond those associated with more developed international markets. In any emerging market, we may face additional risks, including cash-based economies, inconsistent government policies, political instability and civil unrest, and sudden currency revaluations. Operations outside of the United States may be affected by changes in trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; social, political, labor or economic conditions in a specific country or region; and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations. In addition, we must manage the uncertainties of obtaining data and creating solutions that are relevant to particular geographic markets; differing levels of intellectual property protection in various jurisdictions; and restrictions or limitations on the repatriation of funds. Our inability to manage this risk could have a materially adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Personnel and Contractors The loss of, or the inability to attract and retain, key personnel could impair our future success. Our future success depends to a large extent on the continued service of our employees, including highly skilled subject matter experts as well as personnel in sales, marketing, product development, critical operational roles, and management including our executive officers. We must maintain our ability to attract, motivate, and retain highly qualified employees in order to support our customers and achieve business results. The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel or our inability to recruit replacements for such personnel or to otherwise attract, motivate, or retain qualified personnel could have a materially adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. We rely on a network of independent contractors and dealers whose actions could have an adverse effect on our business. We obtain some of our critical information from independent contractors, particularly for offerings that support our Energy domain strategy and for certain offerings of our IHS Jane’s business. In addition, we rely on a network of dealers to sell our offerings in locations where we do not maintain a sales office or sales teams. These independent contractors and dealers are not employees of our company. As a result, we are limited in our ability to monitor and direct their activities. The loss of a significant number of these independent contractors or dealers could disrupt our information-gathering efforts or our sales, marketing, and distribution activities. In addition, if any actions or business practices of these individuals or entities violate our policies or procedures or are otherwise deemed inappropriate or illegal, we could be subject to litigation, regulatory sanctions, or reputation damage, any of which could have a materially adverse affect our business. As part of our strategic business model, we outsource certain operations and engage independent contractors to perform work in various locations around the world. By entering into these independent contractor arrangements relying on them for critical business functions, we face risks that one or more independent contractors may unexpectedly cease operations, that they may perform work that deviates from our standards, that events in a given region may disrupt the independent contractor’s operations, or that we may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property. If these or other unforeseen risks were to occur, they could materially adversely affect our business. 16 Table of Contents Systems and Technology Our investments in technology may not be sufficient and may not result in an increase in our revenue or decreases in our operating costs. As the technological landscape continues to evolve, it may become increasingly difficult for us to make timely, cost-effective changes to our offerings in a manner that adequately differentiates them from those of our competitors. We cannot assure you that our investments have been or will be sufficient to maintain or improve our competitive position or that the development of new or improved technologies and products by our competitors will not have a material adverse effect on our businesses. We could experience system failures or capacity constraints that could interrupt the delivery of our offerings to customers and ultimately cause us to lose customers. Our ability to provide reliable service largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer network systems and data centers. Some of these systems have been outsourced to third-party providers. Any significant interruptions could severely harm our business and reputation and result in a loss of customers and large expenses to repair or replace equipment or facilities. Our systems and operations could be exposed to damage or interruption from power disruption, fire, flood, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses, terrorism, loss or incapacitation of staff, or other natural or man-made disasters. While we have taken and are taking steps to prevent a system failure, including backup disaster recovery systems, those steps may not be effective. In addition, our property and business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses or failures that may occur. Our products could be affected by failures of the Internet or other technology over which we have no control. Material failures or problems with our systems or offerings could force us to incur significant costs to remedy the failures or problems, decrease customer demand for our products, tarnish our reputation, or materially harm our business. Intellectual Property We may not be able to protect intellectual property rights. We rely on copyright laws and nondisclosure, license, and confidentiality arrangements to protect our proprietary rights as well as the intellectual property rights of third parties whose content we license. However, it is not possible to prevent all unauthorized uses of these rights. We cannot assure you that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights, and the rights of those from whom we license intellectual property, are adequate to deter misappropriation or that we will be able to detect unauthorized uses and take timely and effective steps to remedy this unauthorized conduct. In particular, a significant portion of our revenues are derived internationally including jurisdictions where protecting intellectual property rights may prove even more challenging. To prevent or respond to unauthorized uses of our intellectual property, we might be required to engage in costly and time-consuming litigation and we may not ultimately prevail. We depend on content obtained through agreements with third parties to support many of our offerings and the failure to maintain these agreements on commercially reasonable terms could prove harmful to our business. Certain of our offerings include content that is either purchased or licensed from third parties. In particular, our Specs and Standards offerings that support our Product Lifecycle domain strategy rely on information licensed from SDOs. Offerings that rely upon SDO information accounted for approximately 20% of our total revenue in 2009. We believe that the content licensed from many of these third parties, particularly the SDOs, cannot be obtained from alternate sources on favorable terms, if at all. Our license agreements with these third parties are generally nonexclusive and many are terminable on less than one year’s notice. In addition, third parties such as the SDOs compete with one another and us. As a result, we may not be able to maintain or renew these agreements at cost-effective prices, or these third parties might restrict or withdraw their content from us for competitive or other reasons, which could adversely affect the quality of our offerings and our business, operating results, and financial condition. We may be exposed to litigation related to content we make available to customers, and we may face legal liability or damage to our reputation if our customers are not satisfied with our offerings or if our offerings are misused. As discussed above, our business relies on licensing and delivering intellectual property to our customers and obtaining intellectual property from our suppliers. Accordingly, we may face potential liability for, among other things, breach of contract, 17 Table of Contents negligence, and copyright and trademark infringement. We also rely upon our professional reputation as an important factor in attracting and retaining our customers and in building relationships with third parties. Damage to our reputation for any reason could materially adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers, employees, and information suppliers. In addition, if the information in our offerings is incorrect for any reason, or if it is misused or used inappropriately, we could be subject to reputation damage or litigation that could exceed the value of any insurance or legal remedies and materially adversely affect our business. Our offerings could infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, which may require us to engage in costly litigation and could disrupt our business. Third parties may assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against us based on their intellectual property rights. If such claims are successful, we may have to pay substantial damages, possibly including treble damages, for past infringement. We might also be prohibited from selling our offerings or providing certain information without first obtaining a license from the third party, which, if available at all, may require us to pay additional royalties. Even if infringement claims against us are without merit, defending a lawsuit takes significant time, may be expensive, and may divert our management’s attention from other business concerns. Competition and Market Factors We operate in competitive markets, which may adversely affect our market share and financial results. Some of our competitors focus on product categories within our targeted industries while others have significant financial and information-gathering resources, recognized brands, technological expertise, and market experience. We believe that competitors are continuously enhancing their products and services, developing new products and services, and investing in technology to better serve the needs of their existing customers and to attract new customers. Competitors may develop products and services that are superior to or that achieve greater market acceptance than our products and services. The sizes of our competitors vary across the markets we serve, as do the resources we have allocated to those markets. Some of our competitors may have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, or other resources than we do in one or more of our markets. We face competition in specific industries and with respect to specific offerings. We may also face competition from organizations and businesses that have not traditionally competed with us but that could adapt their products and services to meet the demands of our customers. Increased competition may require us to reduce the prices of our offerings or make additional capital investments that could adversely affect our margins. Some of the critical information we use in our offerings is publicly available in raw form at little or no cost. The Internet, widespread availability of sophisticated search engines, and pervasive wireless data delivery have simplified the process of locating, gathering, and disseminating information, potentially diminishing the perceived value of our offerings. If users choose to obtain the critical information they need from our competitors, content providers such as SDOs, or public sources, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely and materially affected. We are affected by conditions and trends in our targeted industries, which may inhibit our ability to grow or otherwise adversely affect our business. Our business, financial condition, and results of operations depend upon conditions and trends affecting the industries in which our customers do business. Examples of such industries include energy, defense, aviation, and manufacturing. It is possible that the global economic decline or a decline in several of our customers’ industries, for any reason, could adversely impact our customers and thus reduce our revenues. Our ability to grow will depend in part upon the growth of these industries as well as our ability to increase sales of our offerings to customers in these industries. It is possible that, if we fail to manage our sales and marketing efforts, consolidation of businesses could reduce our current and potential customers and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Moreover, the larger organizations resulting from consolidation could have greater bargaining power, which could adversely affect the pricing of our offerings. Factors that adversely affect revenues and cash flows in our customers’ industries, including operating results, capital requirements, regulation, and litigation, could reduce the funds available to them to purchase our offerings. Our failure to maintain our revenues or margins could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. 18 Table of Contents Continued disruption in credit markets and governmental policy changes may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Ongoing disruptions in the financial and credit markets that began in late 2008 may adversely affect our business and our financial results. The tightening of credit markets may reduce the funds available to our customers to buy our products and services, cause disruptions in the customer’s business, force consolidations of our customers, and drive some customers out of business entirely. It may also result in customers extending times for payment and may result in our having higher customer receivables with increased default rates. General concerns about the fundamental soundness of local and global economies may also cause customers to reduce their purchases from us even if they have cash or if credit is available to them. If for any reason we lose access to our currently available lines of credit, or if we are required to raise additional capital, we may be unable to do so in the current credit and stock market environment, or we may be able to do so only on unfavorable terms. Stockholder Value The price of our common stock may be volatile and may be affected by market conditions beyond our control. Our share price is likely to fluctuate in the future because of the volatility of the stock market in general and a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of the shares. Market fluctuations could result in volatility in the price of shares of our common stock, which could cause a decline in the value of your investment. In addition, if our operating results fail to meet the expectations of stock analysts or investors, we may experience an immediate and significant decline in the trading price of our common stock. Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. Certain provisions in our governing documents could make a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest involving us difficult, even if such events would be beneficial to the interests of our stockholders. These provisions include our classified board, our supermajority voting requirements, and our adoption of a rights agreement, commonly known as a “poison pill.” In addition, we are subject to certain Delaware anti-takeover provisions. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. Accordingly, our board of directors could rely upon these or other provisions in our governing documents and upon Delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 