ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Economic recessions could adversely affect our business. Prolonged periods of little or no economic growth could decrease demand for oil and gas, which in turn, could result in lower prices for oil and gas. Such decreased demand and lower prices can result in lower demand for our new equipment and, to a lesser extent, aftermarket parts and services and, therefore, could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. For example, the decline in growth rates in the United States and worldwide in late 2008 and into 2009 significantly reduced demand for our products and services. New units and aftermarket bookings in 2009 declined 49.1% and 14.6%, respectively, from 2008 levels. Volatility and disruption of the credit markets may negatively impact us. We intend to finance our operations and initiatives with existing cash, cash from operations, and borrowings under our credit facility and other financing alternatives, if necessary. Adverse national and international economic conditions may affect our ability to fully draw upon our credit facility and we may not be able to obtain financing at competitive pricing and terms. Further, while we believe our current liquidity is adequate for our current plans, deterioration in the credit markets or prolonged tightening of credit availability could adversely affect the ability of our 14 Table of Contents clients to pay us or the ability of our suppliers to meet our needs or do so competitively, which could affect our results of operations, liquidity and cash flows. Our operating results and cash flows could be harmed because of industry downturns. Conditions in the oil and gas industry, which affect approximately 83% of our revenue, are subject to factors beyond our control. The businesses of most of our clients, particularly oil, gas and petrochemical companies, are, to varying degrees, cyclical and historically have experienced periodic downturns. Profitability in those industries is highly sensitive to supply and demand cycles and volatile commodity prices, and our clients in those industries historically have tended to delay large capital projects, including expensive maintenance and upgrades, during industry downturns. These industry downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, excess manufacturing capacity and subsequent accelerated erosion of average selling prices. Demand for our new units and, to a lesser extent, aftermarket parts and services is driven by a combination of long-term and cyclical trends, including increased outsourcing of services, maturing oil and gas fields, the aging of the installed base of equipment throughout the industry, gas market growth and the construction of new energy infrastructure, and regulatory factors. In addition, the growth of new unit sales is generally linked to the growth of oil and gas consumption in markets in which we operate. Moreover, new unit bookings can be highly variable due to volatile market conditions, subjectivity clients exercise in placing orders, and timing of large orders. Prices of oil and gas have been very volatile over the past three years. For example, prices increased to historic highs in July 2008 followed by a significant decline through February 2009. These price declines reduced demand for our new units, and to a lesser extent for our aftermarket parts and services, from the levels experienced during 2008; and our new unit bookings in 2009 declined 49.1% compared with 2008. Prolonged periods of reduced client investment in new units could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Any significant downturn in our clients’ markets or in general economic conditions could result in a reduction in demand for our services and products and could harm our business. Such downturns, including the perception that they might continue, could have a significant negative impact on the market price of our common stock and our senior subordinated notes. We may not be successful in implementing our business strategy to increase our aftermarket parts and services revenue. We estimate that we currently provide approximately 55% of the supplier-provided aftermarket parts and services needs of our own manufactured turbo products, reciprocating compressors and steam turbines, and less than 5% of the aftermarket parts and services needs of this same equipment base of other manufacturers. The successful implementation of our strategy depends on our ability to provide aftermarket parts and services to both our own and our competitors’ installed base of equipment, to develop and maintain our alliance relationships and to maintain competitive costs. Our ability to successfully implement our aftermarket business strategy also depends to a large extent on the success of our competitors in servicing the aftermarket parts and services needs of our clients, the willingness of our clients to outsource their service needs to us, the willingness of our competitors’ clients to outsource their service needs to us and general economic conditions. In addition, our ability to implement and execute our localization initiatives, make strategic acquisitions and to enter into new alliance agreements with national oil companies in developing countries will impact the success of our business strategy. We cannot assure you that we will succeed in implementing our strategy. We face intense competition that may cause us to lose market share and harm our financial performance. We encounter competition in all areas of our business. The principal differentiators of competition in our markets include product performance and quality, product technology, client service, product lead times, global reach, brand reputation, breadth of product line, quality of aftermarket service and support and price. Our clients increasingly demand more technologically advanced and integrated products, and we must continue to develop our expertise and technical capabilities in order to manufacture and market these products successfully. Certain clients may be more price sensitive and less receptive to our value proposition of providing the lowest total life cycle costs and minimizing environmental impacts. To remain competitive, we will need to invest continuously in research and development, manufacturing, marketing, client service and support and our distribution networks. If we fail to develop and introduce new technologies or make product improvements that are accepted in the marketplace, our business could be adversely affected. In our aftermarket parts and services segment, we compete with our major competitors, small independent local providers and our clients’ in-house service providers. Other OEMs typically have an advantage in competing for 15 Table of Contents services and upgrades to their own equipment. Failure to penetrate this market will adversely affect our ability to grow our business. In addition, our competitors are increasingly emulating our alliance strategy. Our alliance relationships are terminable without penalty by either party, and our failure to maintain or enter into new alliance relationships will adversely affect our ability to grow our business. Most of the other OEMs are significantly larger in terms of revenues, cash flow, market capitalization, and they may have better access to capital than we do. Certain of these OEMs have additional products such as large gas turbines that they can offer in a bundled solution in addition to our class of equipment. We may not be able to integrate our acquisitions successfully, or achieve the expected benefits from, any future acquisitions, which could adversely affect our results. We have at times used acquisitions as a means of expanding our business to enhance returns and expect that we will continue to do so. If we do not successfully integrate our acquisitions, we may not realize expected operating improvements and synergies. Future acquisitions may require us to incur additional debt and contingent liabilities, which may materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The acquisition and integration of companies involve a number of risks, including: • use of available cash, new borrowings or borrowings under our restated senior secured credit facility to consummate the acquisition; • demands on management related to the increase in our size after an acquisition; • diversion of management’s attention from existing operations to the integration of acquired companies; • integration into our existing systems and processes; • difficulties in the assimilation and retention of employees; and • potential adverse effects on our operating results. We may not be able to maintain the levels of operating efficiency that acquired companies achieved separately. Successful integration of acquired operations will depend upon our ability to manage those operations and to eliminate redundant and excess costs. We may not be able to achieve the cost reductions and other benefits that we would hope to achieve from acquisitions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Economic, political and other risks associated with worldwide sales and operations could adversely affect our business. Since we manufacture and sell our products and services worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business globally. For the year ended December 31, 2010, 35% of our net revenue was derived from North America (approximately 31% of which was in the United States), 21% from Europe, 15% from the Middle East and Africa, 17% from Asia Pacific/Southern Asia and 12% from Latin America. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; • exchange controls which impact our ability to convert currencies; • changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions, particularly in developing countries; • civil unrest in any of the countries in which we operate; • tariffs, other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread global operations; • differing labor regulations; • requirements relating to withholding taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; • different regimes controlling the protection of our intellectual property; • restrictions on our ability to own or operate subsidiaries, make investments or acquire new businesses in these jurisdictions; 16 Table of Contents • restrictions on our ability to repatriate dividends from our subsidiaries; • difficulty in collecting international accounts receivable; • difficulty in enforcement of contractual obligations governed by non-U.S. law; • unexpected transportation delays or interruptions; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and • the burden of complying with multiple and potentially conflicting laws. Our worldwide operations are affected by global economic and political conditions. Changes in economic or political conditions in any of the countries in which we operate could result in exchange rate movements, new currency or exchange controls or other restrictions being imposed on our operations or expropriation. Some of the markets in which we operate are politically unstable and are subject to occasional civil and communal unrest. Riots, strikes, the outbreak of war or terrorist attacks in locations where we have operations or commercial interests could also adversely affect our business. In March 2010, the Company imposed a policy that prohibited our foreign subsidiaries from taking new business in countries that are subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the U.S. government and the United Nations. In the past, certain foreign subsidiaries sold compressors, turbines and related parts, accessories and services to clients including enterprises controlled by government agencies of these countries in the oil, gas, petrochemical and power generation industries. The Company’s foreign subsidiaries’ aggregate 2010 sales into countries that were subject to pending sanctions and embargoes was less than 1% of the Company’s total sales. Although not material in magnitude, certain investors may view even our prior business in these restricted countries adversely. This could have an adverse impact on the market price of our common stock and our senior subordinated notes. These sanctions and embargoes did not generally prohibit those subsidiaries from transacting business in such countries; however, they did prohibit us and our domestic subsidiaries, as well as employees of our foreign subsidiaries who are U.S. citizens, from participating in, approving or otherwise facilitating any aspect of the business activities in those countries. Legal and self-imposed constraints may negatively affect the financial or operating performance of such business activities. In addition, some of these countries are currently identified by the State Department as terrorist-sponsoring states, namely Iran, Sudan and Syria. Because certain of our foreign subsidiaries have transacted business in these countries in our last fiscal year, including sales to enterprises controlled by agencies of the governments of such countries, our reputation may suffer due to our association with these countries, which may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our senior subordinated notes. Further, certain U.S. states have enacted legislation regarding investments by pension funds and other retirement systems in companies that have business activities or contacts with countries that have been identified as terrorist-sponsoring states and similar legislation may be pending in other states. As a result, pension funds and other retirement systems may be subject to reporting requirements with respect to investments in companies such as ours or may be subject to limits or prohibitions with respect to those investments that may have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock and our senior subordinated notes. We operate in some countries in which the risk of bribery is recognized. We have clear policies prohibiting such illegal payments and have a related comprehensive training and compliance program. However, a risk of bribery remains despite our efforts. In such circumstances, we could also face fines, sanctions and other penalties from authorities in the relevant jurisdictions, including prohibition of our participating in or curtailment of our business operations in those jurisdictions. Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar and other currencies and the volatility of exchange rates may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar may adversely affect our results of operations. Because our consolidated financial results are reported in U.S. dollars, if we generate sales or earnings in other currencies the translation of those results into U.S. dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the amount of those sales or earnings. In addition, our debt service requirements are primarily in U.S. dollars, even though a significant percentage of our cash flow is generated in euros or other foreign currencies. Significant changes in the value of the euro relative to the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to meet interest and principal payments on U.S. dollar-denominated debt, including our senior subordinated notes and the U.S. dollar-denominated 17 Table of Contents borrowings under our restated senior secured credit facility. Significant fluctuations between currencies may also adversely affect our clients and suppliers. In addition, fluctuations in currencies relative to currencies in which our earnings are generated may make it more difficult to perform period-to-period comparisons of our reported results of operations. For example, the economic and political situation in Venezuela is subject to change. We are exposed to risks of currency devaluation in Venezuela primarily as a result of our bolívar receivable balances and bolívar cash balances. On occasion, the Venezuelan government has devalued the bolivar, including a devaluation on January 8, 2010. As a result of this devaluation, we recorded a foreign exchange loss in our Consolidated Income Statement of approximately $13.6 million and a reduction in our aftermarket backlog of approximately $1.1 million in January 2010. Additionally, the Venezuelan government has exchange controls and currency transfer restrictions that limit our ability to convert bolívars into U.S. dollars and transfer funds out of Venezuela, and we cannot assure you that our Venezuelan subsidiary will be able to convert bolivars to U.S. dollars to satisfy intercompany obligations. Specifically, included in our cash balance of $420.8 million reported at December 31, 2010, was $12.0 million denominated in Venezuelan bolívars. The balance is primarily a result of favorable operating cash flows in Venezuela. In addition to currency translation risks, we incur currency transaction risk whenever we or one of our subsidiaries enters into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a currency other than the local currency of the transacting entity. Given the volatility of exchange rates, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively manage our currency transaction and/or translation risks. Volatility in currency exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We have purchased and may continue to purchase foreign currency hedging instruments protecting or offsetting positions in certain currencies to reduce the risk of adverse currency fluctuations on transactions, but we have not historically hedged translation risk. We have in the past experienced and expect to continue to experience economic loss and a negative impact on earnings as a result of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. If we lose our senior management or key personnel, our business may be materially and adversely affected. The success of our business is largely dependent on our senior managers, as well as on our ability to attract and retain other qualified key personnel. In addition, there is significant demand in our industry for qualified engineers, mechanics and other skilled workers. Certain members of our management received a significant amount of the net proceeds from the initial public offering and secondary offerings of our common stock, and have the financial ability to retire. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain all of our current senior management personnel and to attract and retain other necessary personnel, including qualified mechanics, engineers and other skilled workers, necessary for the development of our business. The loss of the services of senior management and other key personnel or the failure to attract additional personnel as required could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Environmental compliance costs and liabilities and responses to concerns regarding climate change could affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows adversely. Our operations and properties are subject to stringent U.S. and foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, including laws and regulations governing the investigation and clean up of contaminated properties as well as air emissions, water discharges, waste management and disposal and workplace health and safety. Such laws and regulations affect a significant percentage of our operations, are continually changing, are generally different in every jurisdiction and can impose substantial fines and sanctions for violations. Further, they may require substantial clean-up costs for our properties (many of which are sites of long-standing manufacturing operations) and the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit pollution emissions and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. We must conform our operations and properties to these laws and adapt to regulatory requirements in all jurisdictions as these requirements change. We routinely deal with natural gas, oil and other petroleum products. As a result of our manufacturing and services operations, we generate, manage and dispose of, or recycle, hazardous wastes and substances such as solvents, thinner, waste paint, waste oil, wash-down wastes and sandblast material. Hydrocarbons or other hazardous substances or wastes may have been disposed or released on, under or from properties owned, leased or operated by us or on, under or from other locations where such substances or wastes have been taken for disposal. These properties may be subject to investigatory, clean-up and monitoring requirements under U.S. and foreign, federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. Such liability may be imposed without regard to the legality of the original actions and without regard to whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic 18 Table of Contents substances, and such liability may be joint and several with other parties. If the liability is joint and several, we could be responsible for payment of the full amount of the liability, whether or not any other responsible party also is liable. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, both operating and capital costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations, including the clean-up and investigation of some of our properties as well as offsite disposal locations. In addition, although we believe our operations are in compliance with environmental laws and regulations and that we are indemnified by Ingersoll Rand for certain contamination and compliance costs (subject to certain exceptions and limitations), new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination, the imposition of new clean-up requirements, new claims for property damage or personal injury arising from environmental matters, or the refusal and/or inability of Ingersoll Rand to meet its indemnification obligations could require us to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also expect that scientific examination of and political attention to issues surrounding the existence and extent of climate change will continue. A variety of regulatory developments, both domestic and international, have been introduced that are focused on restricting or managing the emission of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases. These developments and further legislation that we expect may be enacted or the development or changes within international accords could adversely affect our operations and the demand for or suitability of our products and services. Failure to maintain a safety performance that is acceptable to our clients could result in the loss of future business. Our U.S. clients are heavily regulated by the Occupational Safety & Health Administration concerning workplace safety and health. Our clients have very high expectations regarding safety and health issues and require us to maintain safety performance records for our worldwide operations, field services, repair centers, sales and manufacturing plants. Our clients often insist that our safety performance equal or exceed their safety performance requirements. We estimate that over 90% of our clients have safety performance criteria for their suppliers in order to be qualified for their “approved suppliers” list. If we fail to meet a client’s safety performance requirements, we may be removed from that client’s approved suppliers database and precluded from bidding on future business opportunities with that client. In response to our clients’ requirements regarding safety performance, we maintain a database to measure our monthly and annual safety performance and track our incident rates. Our incident rates help us identify and track accident trends, determine root causes, formulate corrective actions, and implement preventive initiatives. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in maintaining or exceeding our clients’ requirements in this regard or that we will not lose the opportunity to bid on certain contracts. Our business could suffer if we are unsuccessful in negotiating new collective bargaining agreements. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately 6,200 employees worldwide. Of our employees, approximately 64% are located in the United States. Approximately 32% of our employees in the United States are covered by collective bargaining agreements including operations in Olean, Painted Post and Wellsville, NY, and in Burlington, IA. A collective bargaining agreement will expire at our Olean facility in June 2011. In addition, we have an agreement with the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America whereby we hire skilled trade workers on a contract-by-contract basis in many parts of the United States. Our contract with the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America can be terminated by either party with 90 days’ prior written notice. Furthermore, approximately 48% of our employees outside of the United States belong to industry or national labor unions. Our operations in the following international locations are unionized with agreements negotiated annually: Le Havre, France; Peterborough, UK; Oberhausen and Bielefeld, Germany; Kongsberg, Norway; and Naroda, India. Although we believe that our relations with our represented employees are good, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in negotiating new collective bargaining agreements, that such negotiations will not result in significant increases in the cost of labor or that a breakdown in such negotiations will not result in the disruption of our operations. We may be faced with product claims or adverse consequences of regulations as a result of the hazardous applications in which our products are used. Because some of our products are used in systems that handle volatile, toxic or hazardous substances, a failure or alleged failure of certain of our products have resulted in, and in the future could result in, claims against our Company for product liability, including property damage, personal injury damage, wrongful death, pollution and other environmental damage, and consequential damages. These risks may expose our clients to liability. If our clients suffer damages as a result of the occurrence of such events, they may reduce their business with us. Further, we may be subject to potentially material liabilities relating to claims alleging personal injury as a result of hazardous substances incorporated into our products. 19 Table of Contents Furthermore, a claim could be made for the adverse consequences of environmental contamination under various regulations. Such claims could have an adverse affect on our business, operations and cash flow. Third parties may infringe our intellectual property or we may infringe the intellectual property of third parties, and we may expend significant resources enforcing or defending our rights or suffer competitive injury. Our success depends in part on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. If we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our operating results. We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and police our intellectual property rights. Similarly, if we were to infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, our competitive position could suffer. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that any pending patent application or trademark application held by us will result in an issued patent or registered trademark, or that any issued or registered patents or trademarks will not be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. Also, others may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology, duplicate or reverse engineer our technology or design around the patents owned or licensed by us. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights and protect our proprietary information, or to defend against claims by third parties that our products infringe their intellectual property rights. Any litigation or claims brought by or against us, whether with or without merit, or whether successful or not, could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Any intellectual property litigation or claims against us could result in the loss or compromise of our intellectual property and proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities, require us to seek licenses on unfavorable terms, prevent us from manufacturing or selling products and require us to redesign or, in the case of trademark claims, rename our products, any of which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business may be adversely affected if we encounter difficulties as we implement an Oracle based information management system. We are in the process of implementing an Oracle based information management system across our worldwide operations. We have implemented the system in part in LeHavre, Burlington, Bielefeld, Oberhausen, Painted Post, our U.S. field service operations and ten of our U.S. repair centers. We have also started implementation in the rest of our North American manufacturing facilities. Although the transition to date has proceeded without any material adverse effects, a disruption in the implementation or the related procedures or controls could adversely affect both our internal and disclosure controls and harm our business, including our ability to forecast or make sales, manage our supply chain and coordinate production. Moreover, such a disruption could result in unanticipated costs or expenditures and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. Prior to implementing Oracle at certain of our locations, we are operating legacy operational and financial systems and have risks inherent with running these older systems, such as limited vendor support, declining in-house knowledge of the systems, and manual processes to compensate for system limitations. While we have processes and procedures to mitigate these risks, we cannot guarantee the continued operation of these legacy systems would not cause disruption in the business. Our brand name may be subject to confusion. Our Company’s name and principal mark is a combination of the names of our founder companies, Dresser Industries, Inc. and Ingersoll Rand. We have acquired rights to use the “Rand” portion of our principal mark from Ingersoll Rand, and the rights to use the “Dresser” portion of our name from Dresser, Inc., the successor of Dresser Industries, Inc. If we lose the right to use either the “Dresser” or “Rand” portion of our name, our ability to build our brand identity could be negatively affected. We require a significant amount of cash to operate our business and to service our indebtedness. Our ability to generate cash and access capital on reasonable terms and conditions depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our debt, and to fund planned capital expenditures and research and development efforts, will depend on our ability to generate cash and to access capital. Our ability to generate cash is subject to economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that may be beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our restated senior secured credit facility or otherwise in an amount sufficient to enable us 20 Table of Contents to pay our debt, or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity. We might be unable to access the full amount of borrowings available under our restated senior secured credit facility, which depends in part on the financial condition of the financial institutions participating in our credit facility. We might be unable to refinance any of our debt, including our restated senior secured credit facility or our senior subordinated notes, on commercially reasonable terms. The covenants in our restated senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes impose restrictions that may limit our operating and financial flexibility. Our restated senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes contain a number of significant restrictions and covenants that limit our ability to: • incur liens; • borrow money, guarantee debt and, in the case of restricted subsidiaries, sell preferred stock; • issue redeemable preferred stock; • pay dividends; • make redemptions and repurchases of certain capital stock; • make capital expenditures and specified types of investments; • prepay, redeem or repurchase subordinated debt; • sell assets or engage in acquisitions, mergers, consolidations and asset dispositions; • amend material agreements; • change the nature of our business; and • engage in affiliate transactions. The restated senior secured credit facility also requires us to comply with specified financial ratios and tests, including but not limited to, a maximum consolidated net leverage ratio and a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio. The indenture governing our senior subordinated notes also contains restrictions on dividends or other payments to us by our restricted subsidiaries. These covenants could have a material adverse affect on our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs. Furthermore, they may restrict our ability to expand, pursue our business strategies and otherwise conduct our business. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by circumstances and events beyond our control, such as economic conditions and changes in regulations, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to comply. A breach of these covenants could result in a default under the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes and/or the restated senior secured credit facility. If there were an event of default under the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes and/or the restated senior secured credit facility, the affected creditors could cause all amounts borrowed under these instruments to be due and payable immediately. Additionally, if we fail to repay indebtedness under our restated senior secured credit facility when it becomes due, the lenders under the restated senior secured credit facility could proceed against the assets and capital stock which we have pledged to them as security. Our assets and cash flow might not be sufficient to repay our outstanding debt in the event of a default. Our pension expenses and funding requirements are affected by factors outside our control, including the performance of plan assets, interest rates, actuarial data and experience and changes in laws and regulations. Our future funding obligations for our U.S. defined benefit pension plans qualified with the Internal Revenue Service depend upon the level of benefits provided by the plans, the future performance of assets set aside in trusts for these plans, the level of interest rates used to determine funding levels, actuarial experience and changes in government laws and regulations. If the market value of securities held by the plan trusts declines, our pension expense would increase and, as a result, could adversely affect our financial results. Decreases in interest rates that are not offset by contributions and asset returns could also increase our obligation under such plans. Such factors and the statutory funding requirements of various countries in which we sponsor pension plans may legally require us to make contributions to our pension plans in the future, and those contributions could be material. In addition, if local authorities increase the minimum funding requirements for our pension plans, we could be required to contribute more funds, which would negatively affect our cash flow. 21 Table of Contents We have reported material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting in prior years. We reported material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006. Those material weaknesses were remediated as of December 31, 2007. A description of the material weaknesses is included in Item 9A. Controls and Procedures, in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006. While the remedial measures we have taken were effective in sustaining the remediation of all previously identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, deficiencies might arise in the future that could, among other things, cause us to fail to timely file our periodic reports with the SEC and require us to incur additional costs and divert management resources. Errors in our financial statements could require a restatement or prevent us from filing our periodic reports timely with the SEC. Additionally, should we subsequently encounter weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the price of our securities. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. Securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, could reduce the market price of our publicly traded securities in spite of our operating performance. In addition, our operating results could be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, and in response, the market price of our securities could decrease significantly. Among other factors that could affect the price of our securities are: • actual or anticipated variations in operating results; • changes in opinions and earnings and other financial estimates by securities analysts; • actual or anticipated changes in economic, political or market conditions, such as recessions, depressions or international currency fluctuations; • actual or anticipated changes in the regulatory environment affecting our industry; • changes in the market valuations of our industry peers; and • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, divestitures, joint ventures, new products and technologies, or other strategic initiatives. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. Such litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management attention and resources, which could significantly harm our profitability and reputation. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law may discourage a takeover attempt. Provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law impose various procedural and other requirements, which could make it more difficult for stockholders to effect certain corporate actions. For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of unissued series of preferred stock, without any vote or action by our stockholders. Thus, our board of directors can authorize and issue shares of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting or other rights of holders of our common stock. These rights may have the effect of delaying or deterring a change of control of our Company. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 22 Table of Contents 