Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this report before making an investment decision with regard to our securities. The statements contained in or incorporated into this annual report on Form 10-K that are not historic facts are forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by forward-looking statements. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Overall Business Operations Our limited operating history may not serve as an adequate basis to judge our future prospects and results of operations. We have a limited operating history because we have only been in operation since 2003. This limited operating history, and the unpredictability of the machinery production industry, makes it difficult for investors to evaluate our businesses and predict future operating results. An investor in our securities must consider the risks, uncertainties and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in new and rapidly evolving markets. The risks and difficulties we face include challenges in accurate financial planning as a result of limited historical data and the uncertainties resulting from having had a relatively limited time period in which to implement and evaluate our business strategies as compared to older companies with longer operating histories. We may not be able to comply with all applicable government regulations. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation by the central, regional and local authorities in the PRC, where our business operations take place. We believe that we are currently in substantial compliance with all laws and governmental regulations and that we have all material permits and licenses required for our operations. Nevertheless, we cannot assure investors that we will continue to be in substantial compliance with current laws and regulations, or that we will be able to comply with any future laws and regulations. To the extent that new regulations are adopted, we will be required to conform our activities in order to comply with such regulations. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, operations and finances. Compliance with environmental regulations can be expensive, and noncompliance with these regulations may result in adverse publicity and potentially significant monetary damages and fines. Our business operations generate noise, waste water, and gaseous and other industrial wastes. We are required to comply with all national and local regulations regarding protection of the environment. We are in compliance with current environmental protection requirements and have all necessary environmental permits to conduct our business. However, if more stringent regulations are adopted in the future, the costs of compliance with these new regulations could be substantial. Additionally, if we fail to comply with present or future environmental regulations, we may be required to pay substantial fines, suspend production or cease operations. Any failure by us to control the use of or to restrict adequately the discharge of, hazardous substances could subject us to potentially significant monetary damages and fines or suspensions in our business operations. Certain laws, ordinances and regulations could limit our ability to develop, use, or sell our products. 7 Our business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our executive officers, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success depends substantially on the continued services of our executive officers, especially our CEO and President, Mr. Hu Xiaoming. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our executive officers. Although this possibility is low, if any of our executive officers are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them readily, if at all. Therefore, our business may be severely disrupted, and we may incur additional expenses to recruit and retain new officers. In addition, if any of our executives joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose some of our customers. We may be subject to product liability claims, recalls or warranty claims, which could be expensive, damage our reputation and result in a diversion of management resources. The Company may be subject to lawsuits resulting from injuries associated with the use of the vehicles that it sells. The Company may incur losses relating to these claims or the defense of these claims. There is a risk that claims or liabilities will exceed our insurance coverage. In addition, the Company may be unable to retain adequate liability insurance in the future. The Company may also be required to participate in recalls involving our vehicles if any prove to be defective, or we may voluntarily initiate a recall or make payments related to such claims as a result of various industry or business practices or the need to maintain good customer relationships. Such a recall would result in a diversion of resources. While we do maintain product liability insurance, we cannot assure you that it will be sufficient to cover all product liability claims, that such claims will not exceed our insurance coverage limits or that such insurance will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Any product liability claim brought against us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Vehicle Machinery Production Operations We may be subject to significant potential liabilities as a result of defects in production and product liability. Through our machinery production operations, we may be subject to claims of product defects and/or product liability arising in the ordinary course of business. These claims are common to the machinery production industry and can be costly. With respect to certain general liability exposures, including manufacturing defect and product liability, interpretation of underlying current and future trends, assessment of claims and the related liability and reserve estimation process is highly subjective due to the complex nature of these exposures, with each exposure exhibiting unique circumstances. Furthermore, once claims are asserted for construction defects, it is difficult to determine the extent to which the assertion of these claims will expand geographically. We may not have sufficient funds available to cover any liability for damages, the cost of repairs, and/or the expense of litigation surrounding such claims, and future claims may arise out of events or circumstances not covered by insurance and not subject to effective indemnification agreements with our subcontractors. The Company and its subsidiary Zhejiang Kandi Vehicles Co., Ltd. (“Kandi Vehicles”) are defendants in two lawsuits alleging product defects as described below at “Legal Proceedings”. While the Company and Kandi Vehicles have denied liability and will vigorously defend the lawsuits, and the Company believes it has no liability, an adverse decision could have a material adverse affect on the Company. 8 The vehicle machinery industry is highly competitive and we are subject to risks relating to competition that may adversely affect our performance. The vehicle machinery industry is highly competitive, and our continued success depends upon our ability to compete effectively in markets that contain numerous competitors, some of which have significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. Competition may reduce our pricing structures, potentially causing us to lower our prices, which may adversely impact our profits. New or existing competition that uses a business model that is different from our business model may put pressure on us to change our model so that we can remain competitive. Our high concentration of sales to relatively few customers may result in significant uncollectible accounts receivable exposure, which may adversely impact our liquidity, business, results of operations and financial condition. At December 31, 2010, the first two customers aggressively accounted for 81% and 81%, respectively, of our sales and accounts receivable. Due to the concentration of sales to relatively few customers, we face credit exposure from our customers and may experience uncollectible receivables from these customers should they face financial difficulties. If these customers fail to pay their accounts receivable, file for bankruptcy or significantly reduce their purchases of our programming, it would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. The Company’s major customers for the year ended December 31, 2010 accounted for the following percentages of total sales and accounts receivable as follows: Sales Accounts Receivable Major Customers Twelve Months Ended December, 31, 2010 Twelve Months Ended December, 31, 2009 December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Company A 46 % - 61 % - Company B 35 % 56 % 20 % 92 % Company C 15 % 9 % 14 % 7 % Company D 1 % - 4 % - Our business is subject to the risk of supplier concentrations. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for the sourcing of major components and parts and principal raw materials. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, one supplier accounted for 84% and 80% of our purchases, respectively. As a result of this concentration in our supply chain, our business and operations would be negatively affected if any of our key suppliers were to experience significant disruption affecting the price, quality, availability or timely delivery of their products. The partial or complete loss of these suppliers, or a significant adverse change in our relationship with any of these suppliers, could result in lost revenue, added costs and distribution delays that could harm our business and customer relationships. In addition, concentration in our supply chain can exacerbate our exposure to risks associated with the termination by key suppliers of our distribution agreements or any adverse change in the terms of such agreements, which could have a negative impact on our revenues and profitability. 9 The Company’s major suppliers for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010 accounted for the following percentage of total purchases and accounts payable as follows: Purchases Accounts Payable Major Suppliers Twelve Months Ended December, 31, 2010 Twelve Months Ended December, 31, 2009 December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Company E 84 % 80 % 26 % - Company F 2 % 1 % 4 % 5 % Company G 1 % 1 % 3 %- - Company H 1 % 1 % 1 % 4 % Company I 1 % 1 % 4 % 3 % General economic conditions may negatively impact our results. The consumption of entertainment products, such as go-karts, and Super-mini cars depends on continued economic growth. Although there are more and more signs of economy recovery, the uncertainty of the current economic environment remains. Moderate or severe economic downturns or adverse conditions may negatively affect our operations. These conditions may be widespread or isolated to one or more geographic regions. A tightening of the labor markets in one or more geographic regions may result in fewer qualified applicants for job openings in our facilities. Higher wages, related labor costs and other increasing cost trends may negatively impact our results. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Changes in political and economic conditions may affect our business operations and profitability. Since our business operations are primarily located in China, our business operations and financial position are subject, to a significant degree, to the economic, political and legal developments in China. China’s government started implementing its economic reform policy in 1978, which enabled China’s economy to gradually transform from a “planned economy” to a “socialist market economy.” In 1993, the concept of the socialist market economy was introduced into the Constitution of China, and the country has since experienced accelerated development of a market economy. A noteworthy recent phenomenon is that non-state owned enterprises, such as private enterprises, play an increasingly important role in the Chinese economy and the degree of direct control by the PRC government over the economy is gradually declining. While the Chinese government has not halted its economic reform policy since 1978, any significant adverse changes in the social, political and economic conditions of China may fundamentally impact China’s economic reform policies, and thus the Company’s operations and profits may be adversely affected. Change in tax laws and regulations in China may affect our business operations. Various tax reform policies have been implemented in the PRC in recent years. However, there can be no assurance that the existing tax laws and regulations will not be revised or amended in the future. 10 Uncertainties with respect to the Chinese legal system could have a material adverse effect on us and may restrict the level of legal protections to foreign investors. China’s legal system is based on statutory law. Unlike the common law system, statutory law is based primarily on written statutes. Previous court decisions may be cited as persuasive authority but do not have a binding effect. Since 1979, the PRC government has been promulgating and amending the laws and regulations regarding economic matters, such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. However, since these laws and regulations are relatively new, and the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretation of many laws, regulations and rules is not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involves uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. The legal system in China cannot provide investors with the same level of protection as in the U.S. The Company is governed by the law and regulations generally applicable to local enterprises in China. Many of these laws and regulations were recently introduced and remain experimental in nature and subject to changes and refinements. Interpretation, implementation and enforcement of the existing laws and regulations can be uncertain and unpredictable and therefore may restrict the legal protections of foreign investors. Changes in Currency Conversion Policies in China may have a material adverse effect on us. Renminbi (“RMB”) is still not a freely exchangeable currency. Since 1998, the State Administration of Foreign Exchange of China has promulgated a series of circulars and rules in order to enhance verification of foreign exchange payments under a Chinese entity’s current account items, and has imposed strict requirements on borrowing and repayments of foreign exchange debts from and to foreign creditors under the capital account items and on the creation of foreign security in favor of foreign creditors. This may complicate foreign exchange payments to foreign creditors under the current account items and thus will affect the ability to borrow under international commercial loans, the creation of foreign security, and the borrowing of RMB under guarantees in foreign currencies. Furthermore, the value of RMB may become subject to supply and demand, which could be largely impacted by international economic and political environments. Any fluctuations in the exchange rate of RMB could have an adverse effect on the operational and financial condition of the Company and its subsidiaries in China. You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions based on United States or other foreign laws against us, our management or the experts named in the prospectus. We conduct substantially all of our operations in China and substantially all of our assets are located in China. In addition, almost all of our senior executive officers reside in China. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon our senior executive officers, including with respect to matters arising under U.S. federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. Moreover, our PRC counsel has advised us that the PRC does not have treaties with the United States or many other countries providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgment of courts. 11 Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Securities Our stock price may be volatile, which may result in losses to our shareholders. The stock markets have experienced significant price and trading volume fluctuations, and the market prices of companies listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market and NASDAQ Global Market have been volatile in the past and have experienced sharp share price and trading volume changes. Although our stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, the trading price of our common stock is likely to be volatile and could fluctuate widely in response to many factors, including the following, some of which are beyond our control: ● variations in our operating results; ● changes in expectations of our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; ● changes in operating and stock price performance of other companies in our industry; ● additions or departures of key personnel; and ● future sales of our common stock. Domestic and international stock markets often experience significant price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations, as well as general economic and political conditions unrelated to our performance, may adversely affect the price of our common stock. One stockholder owns a substantial portion of our outstanding common stock, which may enable this stockholder to influence many significant corporate actions. Excelvantage Group Limited controls approximately 38.8% of our outstanding shares of common stock as of December 31, 2010. As a result, Excelvantage Group Limited could have a substantial impact on matters requiring the vote of the shareholders, including the election of our directors and most corporate actions. This control could delay, defer or prevent others from initiating a potential merger, takeover or other change in our control, even if these actions would benefit our other shareholders and the Company. This control could adversely affect the voting and other rights of our other shareholders and could depress the market price of our common stock. Our common shares may become thinly traded and you may be unable to sell your shares readily We cannot predict the extent to which an active public market for trading our common stock will be sustained. Although our trading volume has increased gradually in recent years, our stock has historically been sporadic or “thinly-traded,” meaning that the number of persons interested in purchasing our common shares at any given time may be relatively small or non-existent. 12 This situation is attributable to a number of factors, including the fact that we are a small company which is relatively unknown to stock analysts, stock brokers, institutional investors and others in the investment community who generate or influence sales volume. Even if we came to the attention of such persons, those persons tend to be risk-averse and may be reluctant to follow, purchase, or recommend the purchase of shares of an unproven company such as ours until such time as we become more seasoned and viable. As a consequence, there may be periods of several days or more when trading activity in our shares is minimal, as compared to a seasoned issuer which has a large and steady volume of trading activity that will generally support continuous sales without an adverse effect on share price. We cannot give you any assurance that a broader or more active public trading market for our common stock will develop or be sustained, or that current trading levels will be sustained. The market price for our common stock is particularly volatile given our status as a relatively small company, which could lead to wide fluctuations in our share price. You may be unable to sell your common stock at or above your purchase price if at all, which may result in substantial losses to you. Substantial exercise of warrants could adversely affect our stock price or our ability to raise additional financing in the public capital markets. As of December 31, 2010, there are 2,827,975 shares of warrants outstanding. If the warrant holders exercise the warrants and sell a substantial number of shares of our Common Stock in the future, or if investors perceive that these sales may occur, the market price of our Common Stock could decline or market demand for our Common Stock could be sharply reduced. The exercise of warrants and subsequent sale of a substantial number of shares of our Common Stock could also adversely affect demand for, and the market price of, our Common Stock. Each of these transactions could adversely affect our ability to raise additional financing by issuing equity or equity-based securities in the public capital markets. Antidilution and other provisions in the warrants issued to the investors may also adversely affect our stock price or our ability to raise additional financing. The warrants issued to the institutional holders described above contain antidilution provisions that provide for adjustment of the warrant exercise price, and the number of shares issuable under the warrants, upon the occurrence of certain events. If we issue shares of our Common Stock, or securities convertible into our Common Stock, at prices below the exercise price, as applicable, the warrant exercise price will be reduced and the number of shares issuable under the warrant will be increased. The amount of such adjustment if any, will be determined pursuant to a formula specified in the warrants and will depend on the number of shares issued and the offering price of the subsequent issuance of securities. Adjustments to the warrant pursuant to these antidilution provisions may result in significant dilution to the interests of our existing stockholders and may adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. The antidilution provisions may also limit our ability to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us. 13 Moreover, we may not realize any cash proceeds from the exercise of some warrants. A holder of the warrant may opt for a cashless exercise of all or part of the warrant under certain circumstances. In a cashless exercise, the holder of the warrant would make no cash payment to us, and would receive a number of shares of our common stock having an aggregate value equal to the excess of the then-current market price of the shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrant over the exercise price of the warrant. Such an issuance of common stock would be immediately dilutive to the interests of other stockholders. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends to our common shareholders. We presently do not anticipate that we will pay dividends on any of our common stock in the foreseeable future. If payment of dividends does occur at some point in the future, it would be contingent upon our revenues and earnings, if any, capital requirements, and general financial condition. The payment of any common stock dividends will be within the discretion of our Board of Directors. We presently intend to retain all earnings after paying the interest for the preferred stock, if any, to implement our business plan; accordingly, we do not anticipate the declaration of any dividends for common stock in the foreseeable future. Fluctuation in the value of the RMB may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The change in value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar, the Euro and other currencies is affected by changes in China’s political and economic conditions, among other things. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the RMB to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the RMB is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in approximately 2.1% appreciation of RMB against the U.S. dollar. While the international reaction to the RMB revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. As a portion of our costs and expenses is denominated in RMB, the revaluation in July 2005 and potential future revaluation has and could further increase our costs. In addition, any significant revaluation of the RMB may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars we receive from financings into RMB for our operations, appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the RMB amount we receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert our RMB into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the RMB would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. If the Company were to be delisted from NASDAQ, our common stock could be subject to “penny stock” rules which could negatively impact our liquidity and our shareholders’ ability to sell their shares. Our common stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Global Market. We must comply with numerous NASDAQ Market Place rules in order to maintain the listing of our common stock on NASDAQ. There can be no assurance that we can continue to meet the requirements to maintain the NASDAQ listing of our common stock. If we are unable to maintain our listing on NASDAQ, the market liquidity of our common stock may be severely limited. 14 Volatility in Our Common Share Price May Subject Us to Securities Litigation. The market for our common stock is characterized by significant price volatility as compared to seasoned issuers, and we expect that our share price will continue to be more volatile than a seasoned issuer for the indefinite future. In the past, plaintiffs have often initiated securities class action litigation against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We may, in the future, be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and liabilities and could divert management’s attention and resources. The Elimination of Monetary Liability Against our Directors, Officers and Employees under Delaware law and the Existence of Indemnification Rights of our Directors, Officers and Employees May Result in Substantial Expenditures by our Company and may Discourage Lawsuits Against our Directors, Officers and Employees. Our articles of incorporation do not contain any specific provisions that eliminate the liability of our directors for monetary damages to our company and shareholders; however, we are prepared to give such indemnification to our directors and officers to the extent provided for by Delaware law. We may also have contractual indemnification obligations under our employment agreements with our officers. The foregoing indemnification obligations could result in our company incurring substantial expenditures to cover the cost of settlement or damage awards against directors and officers, which we may be unable to recoup. These provisions and resultant costs may also discourage our company from bringing a lawsuit against directors and officers for breaches of their fiduciary duties, and may similarly discourage the filing of derivative litigation by our shareholders against our directors and officers even though such actions, if successful, might otherwise benefit our company and shareholders. Past Activities Of Stone Mountain and Our Affiliates May Lead to Future Liability. Prior to Stone Mountain entering into the share exchange agreement with Continental on June 29, 2007, Stone Mountain engaged in businesses unrelated to our current operations. Any liabilities relating to such prior business against which we are not completely indemnified may have a material adverse effect on us. We may need additional capital, and the sale of additional shares or other equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. On January 21, 2010, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with certain institutional accredited investors pursuant to which the Company sold to these investors $10 million of senior secured convertible notes and warrants exercisable for an aggregate of 1,379,147 shares of the Company’s common stock. As of December 31, 2010, $9,999,000 senior secured convertible notes have been converted to common stock. On December 21, 2010, we agreed to sell to certain institutional investors up to 3,027,272 shares of the Company’s common stock and warrants to purchase up to 1,210,912 shares of common stock. As of December 31, 2010, all the warrants mentioned above have not been exercised. The exercise of these warrants will result in dilution. 15 In the future, we may require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If our resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities could result in dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Our business is subject to changing regulations related to corporate governance and public disclosure that have increased both our costs and the risk of noncompliance. Because our common stock is publicly traded, we are subject to certain rules and regulations of federal, state and financial market exchange entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC and NASDAQ, have issued requirements and regulations and continue to develop additional regulations and requirements in response to corporate scandals and laws enacted by Congress, most notably the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our efforts to comply with these regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue resulting in, increased general and administrative expenses and diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Because new and modified laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This evolution may result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and additional costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to our disclosure and governance practices. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 16 