risk factors described below could cause our actual results to differ materially from expectations and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may not succeed in addressing these challenges and risks. The Industry in Which We Operate Is Dependent upon the Homebuilding Industry, the Economy, and Other Important Factors. The building products supply industry is highly dependent on new home construction, which in turn is dependent upon a number of factors, including demographic trends, interest rates, tax policy, employment levels, consumer confidence, and the economy generally. Unfavorable changes in demographics or a weakening of the national economy or of any regional or local economy in which we operate could adversely affect consumer spending, result in decreased demand for homes, and adversely affect our business. Production of new homes may also decline because of shortages of qualified tradesmen, reliance on inadequately capitalized sub-contractors, and shortages of materials. In addition, the homebuilding industry is subject to various local, state, and federal statutes, ordinances, rules, and regulations concerning zoning, building design and safety, construction, and similar matters, including regulations that impose restrictive zoning and density requirements in order to limit the number of homes that can be built within the boundaries of a particular area. Increased regulatory restrictions could limit demand for new homes and could negatively affect our sales and earnings. Because we have substantial fixed costs, relatively modest declines in our customers’ production levels could have a significant adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Building Supply Industry Is Cyclical and Seasonal. The building products supply industry is subject to cyclical market pressures. Prices of building products are subject to fluctuations arising from changes in supply and demand, national and international economic conditions, labor costs, competition, market speculation, government regulation, and trade policies, as well as from periodic delays in the delivery of lumber and other products. For example, prices of wood products, including lumber and panel products, are subject to significant volatility and directly affect our sales and earnings. Our lumber & lumber sheet goods product category represented 36.4% of total sales in the year ended December 31, 2005. We have no ability to control the timing and amount of pricing changes for building products. In addition, the supply of building products fluctuates based on available manufacturing capacity, and a shortage of capacity or excess capacity in the industry can result in significant increases or declines in market prices for those products, often within a short period of time. Such price fluctuations can adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, although weather patterns affect our results of operations throughout the year, adverse weather historically has reduced construction activity in the first and fourth quarters in our markets. To the extent that hurricanes, severe storms, floods, or other natural disasters or similar events occur in the markets in which we 11 Table of Contents operate, our business may be adversely affected. We anticipate that fluctuations from period to period will continue in the future. Product Shortages, Loss of Key Suppliers, and Our Dependence on Third-Party Suppliers and Manufacturers Could Affect Our Financial Health. Our ability to offer a wide variety of products to our customers is dependent upon our ability to obtain adequate product supply from manufacturers and other suppliers. Generally, our products are obtainable from various sources and in sufficient quantities. However, the loss of, or a substantial decrease in the availability of, products from our suppliers or the loss of key supplier arrangements could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Although in many instances we have agreements with our suppliers, these agreements are generally terminable by either party on limited notice. Failure by our suppliers to continue to supply us with products on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, could put pressure on our operating margins or have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Short-term changes in the cost of these materials, some of which are subject to significant fluctuations, are sometimes, but not always passed on to our customers. Our delayed ability to pass on material price increases to our customers could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Loss of Any of Our Significant Customers Could Affect Our Financial Health. Our 10 largest customers generated approximately 26.1% of our sales in the year ended December 31, 2005, and our largest customer accounted for about 4.8% of our sales in that same period. We cannot guarantee that we will maintain or improve our relationships with these customers or that we will continue to supply these customers at current levels. Production homebuilders and other customers may seek to purchase some of the products that we currently sell directly from manufacturers, they may elect to establish their own building products manufacturing and distribution facilities, or they may give advantages to manufacturing or distribution intermediaries in which they have an economic stake. In addition, continued consolidation among production homebuilders could also result in a loss of some of our present customers to our competitors, and the loss of one or more of our significant customers or deterioration in our relations with any of them could significantly affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, our customers are not required to purchase any minimum amount of products from us. The contracts into which we have entered with most of our professional customers typically provide that we supply particular products or services for a certain period of time when and if ordered by the customer. Should our customers purchase our products in significantly lower quantities than they have in the past, such decreased purchases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our Industry is Highly Fragmented and Competitive, and Increased Competitive Pressure May Adversely Affect Our Results. The building products supply industry is highly fragmented and competitive. We face significant competition from local and regional building materials chains, as well as from privately-owned single site enterprises. Any of these competitors may (i) foresee the course of market development more accurately than do we, (ii) develop products that are superior to our products, (iii) have the ability to produce similar products at a lower cost, (iv) develop stronger relationships with local homebuilders, or (v) adapt more quickly to new technologies or evolving customer requirements than do we. As a result, we may not be able to compete successfully with them. In addition, home center retailers, which have historically concentrated their sales efforts on retail consumers and small contractors, may in the future intensify their marketing efforts to professional homebuilders. Furthermore, certain product manufacturers sell and distribute their products directly to production homebuilders, and the volume of such direct sales could increase in the future. Additional manufacturers of products distributed by us may elect to sell and distribute directly to homebuilders in the future or enter into exclusive supplier arrangements with other distributors. Consolidation of production homebuilders may result in increased competition for their business. Finally, we may not be able to maintain our costs at a level sufficiently low for us to compete effectively. If we are 12 Table of Contents unable to compete effectively, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be adversely affected. We Are Subject to Competitive Pricing Pressure From Our Customers. Production homebuilders historically have exerted significant pressure on their outside suppliers to keep prices low because of their increasing market share and their ability to leverage such market share in the highly fragmented building products supply industry. Continued consolidation among production homebuilders, and changes in production homebuilders’ purchasing policies or payment practices, could result in increased pricing pressure. If we are unable to generate sufficient cost savings in the future to offset any price reductions, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected. Our business plans call for the growth of our prefabricated components sales as well as increasing our market share, and we may be unsuccessful in managing or expanding that business. Our business strategy depends in part on growing our sales of prefabricated components and other value-added products and increasing our market share. If either of these initiatives is not successful, or requires extensive investment, our growth may be limited and we may be unable to achieve or maintain expected levels of growth and profitability. Our Level of Indebtedness Could Adversely Affect our Ability to Raise Additional Capital to Fund Our Operations, Limit Our Ability to React to Changes in the Economy or Our Industry, and Prevent Us from Meeting Our Obligations under Our Debt Instruments. As of December 31, 2005, our total indebtedness was $315.0 million, of which $40.0 million was outstanding under the term loan in our senior secured credit facility and $275.0 million of which was second priority senior secured floating rate notes due in 2012. As of December 31, 2005, $115.0 million of our debt was at a variable interest rate. In the event that interest rates rise, our interest expense would increase; however, we utilize interest rate swap contracts to fix interest rates on a portion of our outstanding long-term debt balances. Based on debt outstanding at December 31, 2005, a 1.0% increase in interest rates would result in approximately $1.2 million of additional interest expense annually. Our substantial debt could have important consequences to us, including: • increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures, and future business opportunities; • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates, and corresponding increased interest expense, because a significant portion of our borrowings, including the notes and borrowings under the senior secured credit facility, are at variable rates of interest; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions, and general corporate or other purposes; and • limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt. In addition, some of our debt instruments, including those governing our senior secured credit facility and our notes contain cross-default provisions which could result in our debt, under a number of debt instruments even if we default on only one debt instrument, being declared immediately due and payable. In such event, it is unlikely that we would be able to satisfy our obligations under all of such accelerated indebtedness simultaneously. 13 Table of Contents We May Incur Additional Indebtedness. We may incur additional indebtedness under our senior secured credit facility, which provides for up to $110.0 million of revolving credit borrowings. As of December 31, 2005, the available borrowing capacity of the revolver totaled $108.8 million after being reduced by outstanding letters of credit under the revolver of approximately $1.2 million. We also have $15.0 million in outstanding letters of credit under the pre-funded letter of credit facility. In addition, we may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, including secured debt, subject to the restrictions contained in the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facility and the indenture relating to our notes (unless these instruments were restructured). If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. Our Debt Instruments Contain Various Covenants That Limit Our Ability to Operate Our Business. Our financing arrangements, including our senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing our notes, contain various provisions that limit our ability to, among other things: • transfer or sell assets, including the equity interests of our restricted subsidiaries, or use asset sale proceeds; • incur additional debt; • pay dividends or distributions on our capital stock or repurchase our capital stock; • make certain restricted payments or investments; • create liens to secure debt; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • merge or consolidate with another company or continue to receive the benefits of these financing arrangements under a “change in control” scenario (as defined in those agreements); and • engage in unrelated business activities. In addition, our senior secured credit facility requires us to meet specified financial ratios. These covenants may restrict our ability to expand or fully pursue our business strategies. Our ability to comply with these and other provisions of the indenture governing our notes and the senior secured credit facility may be affected by changes in our operating and financial performance, changes in general business and economic conditions, adverse regulatory developments, a change in control, or other events beyond our control. The breach of any of these covenants, including those contained in our senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing our notes, could result in a default under our indebtedness, which could cause those and other obligations to become due and payable. If any of our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not be able to repay it. We Are a Holding Company and Conduct All of Our Operations through Our Subsidiaries. Therefore, We Rely on Dividends, Interest, and Other Payments, Advances, and Transfers of Funds from Our Subsidiaries to Meet Our Debt Service and Other Obligations. As a Result, We May Not Be Able to Generate Sufficient Cash to Service All of Our Indebtedness and May Be Forced to Take Other Actions to Satisfy Our Obligations under Our Indebtedness, Which May Not Be Successful. We are a holding company that derives all of our operating income from our subsidiaries. All of our assets are held by our direct and indirect subsidiaries, and we rely on the earnings and cash flows of our subsidiaries, which are paid to us by our subsidiaries in the form of dividends and other payments or distributions, to meet our debt service obligations. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments or distributions to us will depend on their respective operating results and may be restricted by, among other things, the laws of their jurisdiction of organization (which may limit the amount of funds available for the payment of dividends and other distributions to us), the terms of existing and future indebtedness and other agreements of our subsidiaries, the senior secured credit facility, the terms of the indenture governing our notes, and the covenants of any future outstanding indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur. 14 Table of Contents Our financial condition and operating performance and that of our subsidiaries is also subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, and other factors beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. The credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing our notes restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from such disposition. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or be able to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them, and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. Our Continued Success Will Depend on Our Ability to Retain Our Key Employees and to Attract and Retain New Qualified Employees. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract, hire, train, and retain qualified managerial, sales and marketing personnel. We face significant competition for these types of employees in our industry. We may be unsuccessful in attracting and retaining the personnel we require to conduct and expand our operations successfully. In addition, key personnel may leave us and compete against us. Our success also depends to a significant extent on the continued service of our senior management team. We may be unsuccessful in replacing key managers who either quit or retire. The loss of any member of our senior management team or other experienced, senior employees could impair our ability to execute our business plan and growth strategy, cause us to lose customers and reduce our net sales, or lead to employee morale problems and/or the loss of other key employees. In any such event, our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected. The Nature of Our Business Exposes Us to Product Liability and Warranty Claims and Other Legal Proceedings. We are involved in product liability and product warranty claims relating to the products we manufacture and distribute that, if adversely determined, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We rely on manufacturers and other suppliers to provide us with many of the products we sell and distribute. Because we do not have direct control over the quality of such products manufactured or supplied by such third party suppliers, we are exposed to risks relating to the quality of such products. In addition, we are exposed to potential claims arising from the conduct of home builders and their sub-contractors, for which we may be contractually liable. Although we currently maintain what we believe to be suitable and adequate insurance in excess of our self-insured amounts, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms or that such insurance will provide adequate protection against potential liabilities. Product liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant periods, regardless of the ultimate outcome. Claims of this nature could also have a negative impact on customer confidence in our products and our company. In addition, we are involved on an ongoing basis in other legal proceedings. We cannot assure you that any current or future claims will not adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A Range of Factors May Make Our Quarterly Revenues and Earnings Variable. We have historically experienced, and in the future will continue to experience, variability in revenues and earnings on a quarterly basis. The factors expected to contribute to this variability include, among others, (i) the volatility of prices of lumber and wood products, (ii) the cyclical nature of the homebuilding industry, (iii) general economic conditions in the various local markets in which we compete, (iv) the pricing policies of our competitors, (v) the production schedules of our customers, and (vi) the effects of the weather. These factors, among others, make it difficult to project our operating results on a consistent basis, which may affect the price of our stock. 15 Table of Contents We May be Adversely Affected by Any Disruption in Our Information Technology Systems. Our operations are dependent upon our information technology systems, which encompass all of our major business functions. Our centralized financial reporting system currently draws data from our two ERP systems. We rely upon such information technology systems to manage and replenish inventory, to fill and ship customer orders on a timely basis, and to coordinate our sales activities across all of our products and services. A substantial disruption in our information technology systems for any prolonged time period (arising from, for example, system capacity limits from unexpected increases in our volume of business, outages or delays in our service) could result in delays in receiving inventory and supplies or filling customer orders and adversely affect our customer service and relationships. Our systems might be damaged or interrupted by natural or man-made events or by computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions affecting the global internet. As part of our continuing integration of our computer systems, we plan to integrate our two ERPs into a single system. This integration may divert management’s attention from our core businesses. In addition, we may experience delays in such integration or problems with the functionality of the integrated system, which could increase the expected cost of the integration. There can be no assurance that such delays, problems, or costs will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We May be Adversely Affected by Any Natural or Man-Made Disruptions to Our Distribution and Manufacturing Facilities. We currently maintain a broad network of distribution and manufacturing facilities throughout the southern and eastern U.S. Any serious disruption to our facilities resulting from fire, earthquake, weather-related events, an act of terrorism, or any other cause could damage a significant portion of our inventory and could materially impair our ability to distribute our products to customers. Moreover, we could incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with distributing our products to our customers during the time that it takes for us to reopen or replace a damaged facility. In addition, any shortages of fuel or significant fuel cost increases could seriously disrupt our ability to distribute products to our customers. If any of these events were to occur, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. We May be Unable to Successfully Implement Our Expansion Plans Included in Our Business Strategy. Our business plan provides for continued growth through strategic acquisitions and organic growth through the construction of new facilities or the expansion of existing facilities. Failure to identify and acquire suitable acquisition candidates on appropriate terms could have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy. Moreover, a significant change in our business, the economy or the housing market, an unexpected decrease in our cash flow for any reason, or the requirements of our senior secured credit facility or the indenture governing the notes could result in an inability to obtain the capital required to effect new acquisitions or expansions of existing facilities. Our failure to make successful acquisitions or to build or expand facilities, including manufacturing facilities, produce saleable product, or meet customer demand in a timely manner could result in damage to or loss of customer relationships, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, although we have been successful in the past in integrating 23 acquisitions, we may not be able to integrate the operations of future acquired businesses with our own in an efficient and cost-effective manner or without significant disruption to our existing operations. Acquisitions, moreover, involve significant risks and uncertainties, including difficulties integrating acquired personnel and other corporate cultures into our business, the potential loss of key employees, customers, or suppliers, difficulties in integrating different computer and accounting systems, and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies, and the diversion of management attention and resources from existing operations. We may be unable to successfully complete potential acquisitions due to multiple factors, such as issues related to regulatory review of the proposed transactions. We may also be required to incur additional debt in order to consummate acquisitions in the future, which debt may be substantial and may limit our flexibility in using our cash flow from operations. Our failure to integrate future acquired businesses effectively or to manage other consequences of our acquisitions, including increased indebtedness, could prevent us from remaining competitive and, ultimately, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 16 Table of Contents Federal, State and Other Regulations Could Impose Substantial Costs and/or Restrictions on Our Operations That Would Reduce Our Net Income. We are subject to various federal, state, local, and other regulations, including, among other things, regulations promulgated by the Department of Transportation and applicable to our fleet of delivery trucks, work safety regulations promulgated by the Department of Labor’s Occupational Safety and Health Administration, employment regulations promulgated by the United States Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, accounting standards issued by the Federal Accounting Standards Board or similar entities, and state and local zoning restrictions and building codes. More burdensome regulatory requirements in these or other areas may increase our general and administrative costs and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We are Subject to Potential Exposure to Environmental Liabilities and Are Subject to Environmental Regulation. We are subject to various federal, state, and local environmental laws, ordinances, and regulations. Although we believe that our facilities are in material compliance with such laws, ordinances, and regulations, as owners and lessees of real property, we can be held liable for the investigation or remediation of contamination on such properties, in some circumstances, without regard to whether we knew of or were responsible for such contamination. No assurance can be provided that remediation may not be required in the future as a result of spills or releases of petroleum products or hazardous substances, the discovery of unknown environmental conditions or more stringent standards regarding existing residual contamination. More burdensome environmental regulatory requirements may increase our general and administrative costs and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We May be Adversely Affected by Uncertainty in the Economy and Financial Markets, Including as a Result of Terrorism and the War in the Middle East. Instability in the economy and financial markets, including as a result of terrorism and the war in the Middle East, may result in a decrease in housing starts, which would adversely affect our business. In addition, the war, related setbacks, or adverse developments, including a retaliatory military strike or terrorist attack, may cause unpredictable or unfavorable economic conditions and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, any shortages of fuel or significant fuel cost increases related to geopolitical conditions could seriously disrupt our ability to distribute products to our customers. Terrorist attacks similar to the ones committed on September 11, 2001, may directly affect our ability to keep our operations and services functioning properly and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Being a Public Company Increases Our Administrative Costs. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting, and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. Under the SEC rules and regulations, as well as those of NASDAQ, our financial compliance costs have increased. Such rules may also make it more difficult and more expensive to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and qualified executive officers. Our strategy depends in part upon reducing and controlling operating expenses and upon working capital and operating improvements. We cannot assure you that our efforts will continue to result in the increased profitability, cost savings or other benefits that we expect. Investor Confidence and the Price of Our Common Stock May Be Adversely Affected if We Are Unable to Comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As a public company, we are subject to rules adopted by the SEC pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which require us to include in our annual report on Form 10-K our management’s report on, and assessment of, the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, our independent 17 Table of Contents registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and the effectiveness of such internal controls. These requirements will first apply to our annual report for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006. If we fail to properly assess and/or achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, there is a risk that we will not comply with all of the requirements imposed by Section 404. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent financial fraud. Any of these possible outcomes could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could harm our business and could negatively impact the market price of our securities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 