Item 1A. Risk Factors We are exposed to a variety of risks and uncertainties in conducting our business, including, but not limited to, the risks described below. This section includes forward-looking statements and future expectations as of the date of this annual report. You should carefully consider the risks described in this section and all of the other information provided in this annual report. If any of the events or developments described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our Class A common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. Our growth strategy may prove unsuccessful. Our growth strategy involves enhancing our offerings to meet our customers' needs. Our success in meeting these needs depends in large part upon our ability to deliver consistent, high-quality, and timely offerings covering issues, developments and trends that our customers view as important. In addition, we plan to grow by achieving our strategy of being the leading source of Critical Information and Insight in our targeted information domains through profitable organic growth and acquisitions. We have already begun to invest in our growth strategy and it may take a considerable amount of time and expense to fully execute it or benefit from it. If we are unable to execute our growth strategy, or if we do so less capably than our competitors, our operating performance including our ability to generate additional revenues on a profitable basis may be adversely affected. If we are unable to successfully identify or effectively integrate acquisitions, our financial results may be adversely affected. We intend to continue to selectively pursue acquisitions to complement our internal growth. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable candidates for successful acquisitions at acceptable prices. In addition, our ability to achieve the expected returns and synergies from our past and future acquisitions and alliances depends in part upon our ability to integrate the offerings, technology, administrative functions, and personnel of these businesses into our business in an efficient and effective manner. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in integrating acquired businesses or that our acquired businesses will perform at the levels we anticipate. In addition, our past and future acquisitions may subject us to unanticipated risks or liabilities or disrupt our operations and divert management's attention from our day-to-day operations. If we are unable to consistently renew subscriptions for our offerings, our results could weaken. In 2007, we derived more than 74% of our revenues from subscriptions to our offerings. These subscriptions are generally for a term of one year. Our results depend on our ability to achieve and sustain high annual renewal rates on existing subscriptions and to enter into new subscription arrangements on commercially acceptable terms. Our failure to achieve high annual renewal rates on commercially acceptable terms would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Our international operations are subject to exchange rate fluctuations and other risks relating to non-U.S. operations. We operate in over 100 countries around the world and a significant part of our revenue comes from international sales. In 2007, we generated approximately half of our revenues from sales outside the United States, and we expect to increase our international presence over time. Operations outside of the United States may be affected by changes in trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; social, political, labor or economic conditions in a specific country or region; and 26 difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations. In addition, we must manage the uncertainties of obtaining data and creating solutions that are relevant to particular geographic markets; the complexity of maintaining and monitoring effective policies and procedures in locations around the world; differing levels of intellectual property protection in various jurisdictions; and restrictions or limitations on the repatriation of funds. Significant fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our net revenues. Our primary operations outside the United States are in the United Kingdom, Canada, and Switzerland. Our operating profit outside the United States has historically exceeded our domestic operating profit. We are expanding our sales and marketing efforts in certain emerging markets. Expanding our business into emerging markets may present additional risks beyond those associated with more developed international markets. In any emerging market, we may face additional risks, including cash-based economies, inconsistent government policies, political instability and civil unrest, and sudden currency revaluations. The loss of, or the inability to attract and retain, key personnel could impair our future success. Our future success depends in part on the continued service of our employees혰including executive officers and other key management, sales, marketing, product development, and operations personnel혰and on our ability to continue to attract, motivate, and retain additional highly qualified employees. The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel or our inability to recruit replacements for such personnel or to otherwise attract, motivate, or retain qualified personnel could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. We may not be able to protect intellectual property rights. We rely on copyright laws and nondisclosure, license, and confidentiality arrangements to protect our proprietary rights as well as the intellectual property rights of third parties whose content we license. However, it is not possible to prevent all unauthorized uses of these rights. We cannot assure you that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights, and the rights of those from whom we license intellectual property, are adequate to deter misappropriation or that we will be able to detect unauthorized uses and take timely and effective steps to remedy this unauthorized conduct. In particular, a significant portion of our revenues are derived internationally including jurisdiction where protecting intellectual property rights may prove even more challenging. To prevent or respond to unauthorized uses of our intellectual property, we might be required to engage in costly and time-consuming litigation and we may not ultimately prevail. In addition, our offerings could be less differentiated from those of our competitors, which could adversely affect the fees we are able to charge. We rely on a network of independent contractors and dealers whose actions could have an adverse effect on our business. We obtain some of our critical information from independent contractors, particularly in our Energy segment and for certain offerings of our Jane's business. In addition, we rely on a network of dealers to sell our offerings in locations where we do not maintain a sales office or sales teams. These independent contractors and dealers are not employees of our company. As a result, we are limited in our ability to monitor and direct their activities. The loss of a significant number of these independent contractors or dealers could disrupt our information-gathering efforts or our sales, marketing, and distribution activities. In addition, if any actions or business practices of these individuals or entities violate our policies or procedures or are otherwise deemed inappropriate or illegal, we could be subject 27 to litigation, regulatory sanctions, or reputation damage, any of which could adversely affect our business. As part of our strategic business model, we outsource certain operations and engage independent contractors to perform work in various locations around the world. Examples include "back office" services such as payroll as well as highly technical services such as data entry, programming, indexing, and testing. By entering into these independent contractor arrangements, we face risks that one or more independent contractors may unexpectedly cease operations, that they may perform work that deviates from our standards, that events in a given region may disrupt the independent contractor's operations, or that we may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property. If these risks were to occur, they could adversely affect our business. We are affected by conditions and trends in our targeted industries, which may inhibit our ability to grow or otherwise adversely affect our business. Our business, financial condition, and results of operations depend upon conditions and trends affecting the industries in which our customers do business. Examples of such industries include energy, defense, aviation, and manufacturing. It is possible that a global economic decline or a decline in several of our customers' industries, for any reason, could adversely impact our customers and thus reduce our revenues. Our ability to grow will depend in part upon the growth of these industries as well as our ability to increase sales of our offerings to customers in these industries. It is possible that, if we fail to manage our sales and marketing efforts, consolidation of businesses could reduce our current and potential customers and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Moreover, the larger organizations resulting from consolidation could have greater bargaining power, which could adversely affect the pricing of our offerings. Factors that adversely affect revenues and cash flows in our customers' industries, including operating results, capital requirements, regulation, and litigation, could reduce the funds available to them to purchase our offerings. Our failure to maintain our revenues or margins could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. We depend on content obtained through agreements with third parties, including Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) for offerings in our Product Lifecycle domain, and the failure to maintain these agreements on commercially reasonable terms could prove harmful to our business. Certain of our offerings in the Engineering segment (particularly our Specs and Standards offerings in the Product Lifecycle information domain) include content that is either purchased or licensed from third parties, including SDOs. Offerings that rely upon SDO information accounted for approximately 27% of our total revenue in 2007. We believe that the content licensed from many of these third parties, particularly the SDOs referred to above, cannot be obtained from alternate sources on favorable terms, if at all. Our license agreements with these third parties are generally nonexclusive and many are terminable on less than one year's notice. In addition, many of these third parties compete with one another and us. As a result, we may not be able to maintain or renew these agreements at cost-effective prices, and these third parties might restrict or withdraw their content from us for competitive or other reasons. When SDO royalty payments increase, our Engineering segment operating margins may decline. If we are unable to maintain or renew a significant number of these third party content agreements, particularly those we have with SDOs, or if we renew a significant number of these agreements on terms that are less favorable to us, the quality of our offerings and our business, operating results, and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our investments in technology may not be sufficient and may not result in an increase in our revenue or decreases in our operating costs. As the technological landscape continues to evolve, it may become increasingly difficult for us to make timely, cost-effective changes to our offerings in a manner that adequately differentiates them 28 from those of our competitors. We cannot assure you that our investments have been or will be sufficient to maintain or improve our competitive position or that the development of new or improved technologies and products by our competitors will not have a material adverse effect on our businesses. We operate in competitive markets, which may adversely affect our market share and financial results. Some of our competitors focus on sub-markets within our targeted industries while others have significant financial and information-gathering resources, recognized brands, technological expertise, and market experience. We believe that competitors are continuously enhancing their products and services, developing new products and services, and investing in technology to better serve the needs of their existing customers and to attract new customers. We face competition in specific industries and with respect to specific offerings. We may also face competition from organizations and businesses that have not traditionally competed with us but that could adapt their products and services to meet the demands of our customers. Increased competition may require us to reduce the prices of our offerings or make additional capital investments which would adversely affect our margins. If we are unable or unwilling to do so, we may lose market share in our target markets and our financial results may be adversely affected. Most of our license agreements with SDOs are nonexclusive, which allow the SDOs to distribute their standards themselves or license them to other third parties for distribution. In addition, some of the critical information we use in our offerings is publicly available in raw form at little or no cost. The Internet and other electronic media have simplified the process of locating, gathering, and disseminating information. If users choose to obtain the critical information they need from our competitors, SDOs, or public sources, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. We could experience property damage, system failures, or capacity constraints, which could interrupt the delivery of our offerings to customers and ultimately cause us to lose customers. Our ability to protect our data centers against damage from interruptions or breach of information systems security, fire, power loss, sabotage, telecommunications failure, or other accidents or disasters is critical. Any delays or failures in our systems or errors in the technology that we use to store and deliver our content to customers would harm our business. The growth of our customer base may also strain our systems in the future. In addition, our products could be affected by failures of third-party technology used in our products and we could have no control over remedying these failures. Any failures or problems with our systems or offerings could force us to incur significant costs to remedy the failures or problems, decrease customer demand for our products, tarnish our reputation, and harm our business. We may be exposed to litigation related to content we make available to customers, and we may face legal liability or damage to our reputation if our customers are not satisfied with our offerings or if our offerings are misused. As a provider of Critical Information and Insight, and as a user of third-party content, we face potential liability for, among other things, breach of contract, negligence, and copyright and trademark infringement. Our professional reputation is an important factor in attracting and retaining our customers and in building relationships with the third parties. If customers were to become dissatisfied with the quality of our offerings, our reputation could be damaged and our business could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if the information in our offerings is incorrect for any reason, or if it is misused or used inappropriately, we could be subject to reputation damage or litigation. 29 Our offerings could infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, which may require us to engage in costly litigation and could disrupt our business. Third parties may assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against us based on their intellectual property rights. If such claims are successful, we may have to pay substantial damages, possibly including treble damages, for past infringement. We might also be prohibited from selling our offerings or providing certain information without first obtaining a license from the third party, which, if available at all, may require us to pay additional royalties. Even if infringement claims against us are without merit, defending a lawsuit takes significant time, may be expensive, and may divert our management's attention from other business concerns. We are controlled by an entity whose interests may differ from yours. Our Class B common stock is entitled to ten votes per share and our Class A common stock is entitled to one vote per share. As of November 30, 2007, our principal stockholder, Urvanos Investments Limited ("Urvanos"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of TBG Holdings N.V. ("TBG"), owned 100% of our Class B common stock and less than two percent of our outstanding Class A common stock. In the aggregate, this ownership represents approximately 74% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock (compared to approximately 23.5% of the overall economic interest). The Class B common stock may be converted into Class A common stock at any time and will automatically be converted into Class A common stock upon the earlier of the occurrence of specified events (see "Business혰Ownership Structure" above) or November 16, 2009. Voting and investment decisions with respect to our common stock that is owned by Urvanos have historically been made by TBG. As a result, TBG controls all matters requiring stockholder approval, including amendments to our certificate of incorporation, the election of directors, and significant corporate transactions, such as transactions involving a change of control of IHS. TBG is indirectly wholly-owned by TB Continuity II Trust, of which Georg Heinrich Thyssen-Bornemisza is the sole primary beneficiary. Georg Heinrich Thyssen-Bornemisza is the chairman of the board of directors of TBG. Christoph v. Grolman, co-chief executive officer of TBG, is a member of our board of directors. Jerre L. Stead, our chief executive officer and the chairman of our board of directors, is a member of the board of directors of TBG. TBG or its shareholder may have interests that conflict with yours and actions may be taken that you do not view as beneficial. Under Delaware law, the directors of a corporation owe fiduciary duties to all stockholders of the corporation, not just to the controlling stockholders. In addition, seven of the nine directors serving on our board are "independent" of management, as defined by the New York Stock Exchange rules and regulations, and our directors are elected for staggered terms with three of our nine director seats open for election each year. However, in light of the significant control that TBG has over all matters requiring stockholder approval (including the election of directors), no assurances can be provided that these protections will prevent actions that may be viewed as adverse to the Class A stockholders. Shares eligible for future sale could depress the price of our shares. Sales of substantial amounts of the Class A common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of the shares. As of November 30, 2007, there were 48,758,518 shares of Class A common stock and 13,750,000 shares of Class B common stock outstanding. TBG indirectly owned an aggregate of 958,859 shares of Class A common stock and all 13,750,000 shares of Class B common stock. In addition, investment entities affiliated with General Atlantic LLC owned 3,487,500 shares of Class A common stock. Following our acquisition of Jane's Information, Woodbridge International Holdings S.A. owned 4,399,000 shares of Class A common stock. 30 In addition, as of November 30, 2007, Tak Tent (F) Limited owned 2,000,000 shares of Class A common stock and Augustus Limited owned 3,500,000 shares of Class A common stock. Each of Tak Tent (F) Limited (and its permitted transferees) and Augustus Limited (and its permitted transferees) have made 1,500,000 shares of Class A common stock available for sale pursuant to a post-effective amendment to a registration statement dated May 21, 2007, subject to certain contractual limitations on the timing and amount of securities that may be sold. The shares of Class A common stock owned by Tak Tent (F) Limited and Augustus Limited, respectively, that are not eligible for sale under the registration statement may be eligible for sale into the public market under Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Urvanos and Woodbridge are entitled to require us to register their shares under the Securities Act under certain conditions. For rights and conditions applicable to Urvanos see "Selling Stockholders혰Registration Rights Agreements" under our post-effective amendment to a registration statement dated May 21, 2007. For rights and conditions applicable to Woodbridge, see the Jane's Information Group Stock Purchase Agreement included as an exhibit to our report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended August 31, 2007. The sale by us or any of these stockholders of shares of common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales might occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our shares. The price of our Class A common stock may be volatile and may be affected by market conditions beyond our control. Our share price is likely to fluctuate in the future because of the volatility of the stock market in general and a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Market fluctuations could result in volatility in the price of shares of our Class A common stock, which could cause a decline in the value of your investment. In addition, if our operating results fail to meet the expectations of stock analysts or investors, we may experience an immediate and significant decline in the trading price of our Class A common stock. Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. Certain provisions in our governing documents could make a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest involving us difficult, even if such events would be beneficial to the interests of our stockholders. These provisions include our dual class structure, our classified board, our supermajority voting requirements, and our adoption of a rights agreement, commonly known as a "poison pill." In addition, we are subject to certain Delaware anti-takeover provisions. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. Accordingly, our board of directors could rely upon these or other provisions in our governing documents and upon Delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. See "Description of Capital Stock." 31 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 