ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, future performance and forward-looking statements are affected by general industry and market conditions and growth rates, general economic and political conditions in the United States, Canada and worldwide, competition, interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations and other events. The following items are representative of the risks, uncertainties and other conditions that may impact our business. 8 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Business, Products and Markets We have incurred substantial net losses since inception and may never achieve profitability. Since we commenced operations in 2002, and through March 31, 2012, we incurred substantial losses, including a net loss of $3,551,034 for the twelve month period ended March 31, 2012. As of March 31, 2012, our losses have resulted in an accumulated deficit of $67,745,576. The future success of our business will depend on our ability to profitably expand sales of our AeroGarden indoor garden systems, seed kits and accessory products, and develop new product extensions and applications. We are subject to many of the risks common to developing enterprises, including undercapitalization, cash shortages, limited financial and other resources, and insufficient scale to be self-sustaining. There is no assurance that we will ever attain profitability. Our financial condition may limit our ability to borrow funds or to raise additional equity as may be required to fund our future operations. Our ability to borrow funds or raise additional equity may be limited by our financial condition. In addition, a failure to obtain additional funding to support our working capital and operating requirements could prevent us from making expenditures that are needed to allow us to maintain our operations. We anticipate raising additional capital in the form of equity, or by renewing our current working capital facility at its maturity, in order to support our inventory and other operating requirements during the fiscal year ending March 31, 2013. In the event we cannot raise this additional funding, we will have to scale back on our operating plans for the current and future fiscal years. There can be no assurance that we will be able to secure the additional capital in an amount and in time to support all of our operating plans. We have shifted the focus of our business strategy toward the direct-to-consumer sales channels. Failure to successfully develop our position in these channels could have an adverse impact on our future results of operations. During Fiscal 2010, we announced a strategic shift to increase our focus on the direct-to-consumer business channels. Since then we have dedicated a larger proportion of our capital and human resources to develop these channels. Successfully growing these channels will require that we invest in revenue-generating media to attract new customers, effectively target our marketing messages to consumers, and develop ongoing relationships with consumers through excellence in our fulfillment, shipping and customer service operations. There is no assurance that we will be successful in achieving these requirements, or that we can do so on a timely basis. In the event we do not succeed in developing the direct-to-consumer channels as we intend, there could be a material adverse impact on our business, prospects, results of operations, and financial condition. We have effectively transitioned our business away from the retail distribution channel. Unless our direct-to-consumer strategy is successful, this change in channel strategy could have a material adverse impact on our business. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, approximately 8.6% of our net sales were to retailer customers. As a result of our transition to a direct-to-consumer business model, we have discontinued sales to all but one of our former retail chain store customers. Unless the direct-to-consumer distribution model is successful, this change could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, and financial condition. We currently sell to only one major “brick and mortar” retail chain store customer, Canadian Tire Corporation (“CTC”). The loss of this customer could have a material adverse impact on our business. In Fiscal 2012, our net sales to CTC totaled $627,730, representing 7.6% of our total net sales. The loss of CTC as a customer, or a significant decline in orders from CTC could materially affect our sales of indoor garden systems, seed kits and accessories, and therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, and financial condition. 9 Table of Contents Because we have a limited operating history under our current direct-to-consumer-focused strategy, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve profitability. We have a limited operating history subsequent to our change in strategy to focus on the direct-to-consumer channels of distribution. Since commencing operations in 2002, and including the fiscal years following our shift in strategy, we have not achieved profitability in any fiscal year. We continue to face the challenges inherent in smaller and/or early stage companies, including difficulties and delays in connection with the production and sales of our indoor garden systems, reliance on a small number of products and manufacturers, operational difficulties, and difficulty in estimating future sales, production requirements and costs, and administrative costs. If we cannot successfully manage our business, we may not be able to generate future profits and may not be able to support our operations. We may incur additional expenses and losses in the further implementation of our business plan. We may not be able to improve operations and therefore may never become profitable. A worsening of the economy, particularly in the United States and Canada, could materially adversely affect our business. The success of our business operations depends significantly on consumer confidence and spending, which deteriorated during the recently experienced worldwide economic downturn. A re-occurrence of the economic downturn and the consequent impact on consumer spending, particularly in the United States and Canada, could adversely impact our revenue, ability to market our products, build customer loyalty, or otherwise implement our business strategy. In such a scenario, we would experience a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, and financial condition. Our future success is completely dependent on our ability to market our indoor garden systems, seed kits and accessory products and generate consumer acceptance on a broader scale. We have introduced our indoor garden systems and seed kits as new products to consumer markets unfamiliar with their use and benefits. Although we believe that we have penetrated only a small portion of the potential market for our products, our marketing efforts may not generate widespread consumer adoption. If our marketing strategies fail to attract customers, our product sales may not produce future revenue sufficient to meet our operating expenses or fund our future operations. Our business, prospects, results of operations, and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to recruit, train and retain key personnel necessary to operate our business, our ability to successfully manage our business and develop and market our products may be harmed. To maintain our business position, we will need to attract, retain, and motivate highly skilled design, development, management, accounting, sales, merchandising, marketing, and customer service personnel. Competition for many of these types of personnel can be intense, depending on general economic conditions, alternative employment options, and job location. As a result, we may be unable to successfully attract or retain qualified personnel. Additionally, any of our officers or employees can terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of any key employee, or our inability to attract or retain other qualified employees, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, and financial condition. As a result of the economic downturn, decline in consumer spending and the consequent impact on the sales of our products, we restructured our operations and implemented a substantial workforce reduction. These actions could adversely impact the morale and performance of our remaining employees and our ability to hire new personnel. Our business was adversely impacted by the deterioration in the global economy and the consequent impact on our various channels of distribution. We restructured our business operations in order to re-size our overhead costs and streamline our distribution, fulfillment, and manufacturing operations. This resulted in a substantial decrease in the number of our full-time employees. In addition, during Fiscal 2012 we instituted a temporary furlough program that impacted most employees, and instituted a salary deferral program for our senior management. In total, these actions could have unintended impact on our remaining employees, could lead to a decline in employee morale, and could lead to a loss of additional personnel over and above the level desired by the Company. In the event of such employee attrition, we may not be able to replace the lost personnel on a timely basis, or with individuals having the same level of skills. In either case, our business prospects, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents Our current or future manufacturers could fail to fulfill our orders for indoor garden systems, which would disrupt our business, increase our costs, and could potentially cause us to lose our market. We currently depend on three contract manufacturers in China to produce our indoor garden systems. These manufacturers could fail to produce the indoor garden system to our specifications or in a workmanlike manner and may not deliver the systems on a timely basis. Our manufacturers must also obtain inventories of the necessary parts and tools for production. Although we own the tools and dies used by our manufacturers, our manufacturers operate in China. As a result, our manufacturers may be subject to business risks that fall outside our control, including but not limited to, political, currency, and regulatory risks, each of which may affect the manufacturer’s ability to fulfill our orders for indoor garden systems. In addition, weather or natural disasters in China could disrupt our supply of product. Any change in manufacturers could disrupt or delay our ability to fulfill orders for indoor garden systems while we search for alternative supply sources, provide specifications, and test initial production. Our business prospects, results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. Our revenue and level of business activity are highly seasonal, requiring us to staff our operations, incur overhead and marketing costs, purchase and manufacture inventory, and incur other operating costs in advance of having firm customer orders for our products. A material variance in actual orders relative to anticipated orders could have an adverse impact on our business. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, approximately 49.0% of our total net sales occurred during four consecutive calendar months (November through February). We must therefore estimate sales in advance of the anticipated peak months and operate our business during the balance of the year in such a way as to insure that we can meet the demand for our products during the peak months. This requires us to incur significant operating, marketing, and overhead expenses, and to utilize cash and other capital resources to invest in inventory in advance of having certainty as to the ultimate level of demand for our product during the peak months. Shortfalls in actual demand for our products, relative to our forecast, could result in a significant loss of revenue due to lack of adequate product inventory. Alternatively, a shortfall in actual demand for our products during peak months could cause us to liquidate excess inventory at a loss or at substantially lower margins. In any of these cases, we may not generate enough revenue to cover expenses incurred throughout the balance of the year. Our business prospects, results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. We are highly reliant upon a single distribution and assembly facility. Any material disruption to the operation of this facility could adversely affect our business. All of our North American fulfillment and distribution operations, and the entirety of our seed kit assembly operations are located in a third-party-managed facility based in Mexico, Missouri. Any material disruption to the operation of this facility, whether caused by internal or external factors could have a material adverse effect on our business prospect s, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on third-party providers in our manufacturing, warehouse, distribution, order processing, and fulfillment operations. If these parties are unwilling to continue providing services to us, or are unable to adequately perform such services for us on a cost effective basis, our business could be materially harmed. We engage third parties to perform certain critical functions supporting our business operations. Any disruption in our relationship with any of our vendors could cause significant disruption to our business and we may not be able to locate another party that can provide comparable services in a manner that is timely, consistent with our business plan, or on acceptable commercial terms. Our business prospects, results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. Our intellectual property and proprietary rights give us only limited protection, and can be expensive to defend. Our ability to produce and sell indoor garden systems exclusively depends in part on securing patent protection for the components of our systems, maintaining various trademarks, and protecting our operational trade secrets. To protect our proprietary technology, we rely on a combination of patents pending (and if granted, patents), trade secrets, and non-disclosure agreements, each of which affords only limited protection. We own the rights to four patents which have been issued in the United States and three patents which have issued internationally. All of our intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented. Claims for infringement may be asserted or prosecuted against us in the future and we may not be able to protect our patents, if any more are obtained, and intellectual property rights against others. Our former employees or consultants may violate their non-disclosure agreements, leading to a loss of proprietary intellectual property. We could also incur substantial costs to assert our intellectual property or proprietary rights against others and our business prospects, results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected.. 11 Table of Contents We may face significant competition, and if we are unable to compete effectively, our sales may be adversely affected. We believe that our complete indoor garden systems offer significant benefits over traditional hydroponic industry products. There are companies in a variety of related markets including but not limited to, consumer electronics, commercial hydroponics, gardening wholesale, and soil-based gardening that are larger, better funded, have more recognizable brand names, and have experience in our channels of distribution. These companies could potentially decide to develop products to compete with our products. These companies could use hydroponic technologies, and could achieve better consumer acceptance. The success of any competing products may have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Increases in energy prices, resulting from general economic conditions, or other factors, may raise our cost of goods sold and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Energy costs, especially gasoline and fuel costs, are significant expenses in the delivery of our products. Increased costs resulting from general economic conditions, war, acts of nature, or other factors, may result in declining margins and operating results if market conditions prevent us from passing these increased costs on to our customers through timely price increases on our products. Our business prospects, results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. Our current AeroGarden manufacturers are located in China and therefore our product costs may be subject to fluctuations in the value of the dollar against the Chinese currency. Although we purchase our AeroGarden products in U.S. dollars, the prices charged by our factories are predicated upon their cost for components, labor and overhead. Therefore, changes in the valuation of the U.S. dollar in relation to the Chinese currency may cause our manufacturers to raise prices of our products which could reduce our profit margins and have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, results of operations and financial condition. If our indoor garden systems fail to perform properly, our business could suffer with increased costs and reduced income. From our inception through March 31, 2012, we have sold approximately 1.1 million AeroGardens and have provided a limited warranty with each garden sold. In addition, our indoor garden systems are “guaranteed to grow.” We therefore may be required to replace or repair products or refund the purchase price to consumers. Failure of our products to meet expectations could damage our reputation, decrease sales, increase costs related to returns and repairs, delay market acceptance of our products, result in unpaid accounts receivable, and divert our resources to remedy the malfunctions. The occurrence of any of these events would have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, results of operations and financial condition. From time to time, we may be subject to litigation that, if decided adversely to us, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. From time to time, we are a party to various litigation matters, in most cases involving ordinary and routine claims incidental to our business. We cannot estimate with certainty our ultimate legal and financial liability with respect to such litigation. Although we do not believe that any current litigation poses a material threat to our business, defense of any lawsuits or proceedings, even if successful, may require management to spend a substantial time and attention on the part of our management personnel that otherwise would be spent on other aspects of our business, and may requires the expenditure of significant amounts for legal fees and other related costs. Settlement of lawsuits also may result in significant payments and modifications to our operations. In addition, we also may be subject to adverse publicity as a result of litigation. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Market for our Securities The market price of our shares may fluctuate greatly. Investors in AeroGrow bear the risk that they will not recover their investment. Currently, trading in our common stock is limited, and the price per share is likely to be influenced by the price at which and the amount of shares the selling security holders are attempting to sell at any time. This could have the effect of limiting the trading price or lowering the market price to the selling security holders’ offering prices. Common stock such as ours may be subject to the activities of persons engaged in short selling securities, which generally has the effect of driving the price down. In addition, the common stock of emerging growth companies is typically subject to high price and volume volatility. Therefore, the price of our common stock has fluctuated, and may continue to fluctuate, widely. A full and stable trading market for our common stock may never develop and, as a result, stockholders may not be able to sell their shares at the time they elect, if at all. There may be substantial sales of our common stock by existing security holders which could cause the price of our stock to fall. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market or the perception that such sales might occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and could impair the value of an investment in our common stock and our ability to raise equity capital in the future. As of March 31, 2012, we had 20,994,160 common shares issued and outstanding. On April 11, 2012, we completed a restructuring of our debt and equity accounts that involved the conversion of secured debt and preferred equity into 392,854,704 shares of common stock. As a result, there was a substantial increase in the number of our common shares outstanding. In addition, during the period May 10, 2012 through May 31, 2012, we temporarily reduced the exercise price on all of our common stock warrants to $0.01 per share to incent the holders to exercise the warrants. As a result of this program, we issued 162,445,880 shares of common stock pursuant to the exercise of warrants. As of June 15, 2012, we had 576,294,744 common shares issued and outstanding. (Please refer to Note 8 “Subsequent Events” to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the restructuring and the temporary reduction in the exercise prices of our warrants.) Sales of our common stock by security holders, or even the appearance that such holders may make such sales, may limit the market for our common stock or depress any trading market volume and price before other investors are able to sell the common stock. Moreover, a number of shareholders have held their investment for a substantial period of time and may desire to sell their shares, which could drive down the price of our common stock. We can issue debt securities and shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could adversely affect the rights of common stockholders. Our Articles of Incorporation allow our Board of Directors to approve the terms and conditions of debt securities and preferred stock for issuance by the Company, including but not limited to voting rights, conversion privileges and liquidation preferences, without the approval of common stockholders. The rights of the holders of our common stock may be adversely impacted as a result of the rights that could potentially be granted to holders of debt securities or preferred stock that we may issue in the future. In addition, there could be an impact on the price of our common stock because of the potential impact on the rights of common shareholders resulting from future issuances of debt or preferred stock. Our outstanding warrants, options and any additional future obligations to issue our securities to various parties, may dilute the value of an investment in AeroGrow. In addition, the terms and conditions of these securities could significantly impact the price of our common shares, and could adversely impact our ability to raise additional equity capital. As of March 31, 2012, we had reserved for issuance up to approximately 222 million additional shares of common stock under the terms of outstanding convertible notes, warrants, options, conversion of Series A Convertible Preferred and other arrangements. 13 Table of Contents On April 11, 2012, we completed a restructuring of our debt and equity accounts that involved the conversion of all of our outstanding secured convertible debt and all of the Series A Convertible Preferred shares into 392,854,704 shares of common stock. In addition, during the period May 10, 2012 through May 31, 2012, 162,445,880 common stock warrants were exercised pursuant to a program under which we temporarily reduced the exercise price on all of our common stock warrants to $0.01 per share. (Please refer to Note 8 “Subsequent Events” to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the restructuring and the temporary reduction in the exercise prices of our warrants.) As of May 31, 2012, we had reserved for issuance up to approximately 63.5 million additional shares of common stock under the terms of the remaining warrants and options to purchase our common stock. For the length of time the warrants and options are outstanding, the holders will have an opportunity to profit from a rise in the market price of our common stock without assuming all the risks of common share ownership. This may adversely affect the terms upon which we can obtain additional capital. The holders of such derivative securities would likely exercise or convert them at a time when we would be able to obtain equity capital on terms more favorable than the exercise or conversion prices provided by the notes, warrants or options. Further, future sales of substantial amounts of these shares, or the perception that such sales might occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and could impair the value of an investment in our common stock and our ability to raise equity capital in the future. If an exemption from registration on which we have relied for any of our past offerings of common stock or warrants is challenged legally, our principals may have to spend time defending claims, and we would then risk paying expenses for defense, rescission, and/or regulatory sanctions. To raise working capital, we offered common stock and warrants in private transactions that we believed to be exempt from registration under the Securities Act and state securities laws. In 2004, we conducted a state-registered offering in Colorado of common stock and warrants, intended to be exempt from registration under the Securities Act as an intrastate offering. However, because we are incorporated in Nevada, the offering did not satisfy all of the requirements for an intrastate offering. This could result in investors or regulators asserting that the Colorado offering and/or private offerings subsequent to the Colorado offering (if the private offerings were integrated with the Colorado offering) violated the Securities Act. There can be no assurance that investors or regulators will not be successful in asserting a claim that these transactions should not be integrated. In the event that one or more investors seeks rescission, with resulting return of investment funds and interest at a market rate, or that state or federal regulators seeks sanctions against us or our principals, we would spend time and financial resources to pay expenses for defense, rescission awards, or regulatory sanctions. The use of funds would reduce the capital available to operate our business. No assurance can be given regarding the outcome of any such actions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 