D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our limited operating history makes evaluating our business and prospects difficult. We commenced operations in July 2002 and completed our first mobile handset design project in September 2003. As a result, we have a limited operating history, which may not provide a meaningful basis for evaluating our business and prospects. We may not have sufficient experience to address the risks frequently encountered by early stage companies, including our potential inability to: • manage our growth effectively; • maintain our profitability and margins; • acquire and retain customers; • attract, train and retain qualified personnel; • maintain adequate control over our costs and expenses; • keep up with evolving industry standards and market developments; or • respond to competitive and changing market conditions. If we are unsuccessful in addressing any of these risks, our business may be materially and adversely affected. If we fail to effectively manage our rapid expansion, our business may be materially and adversely affected. 4 Table of Contents \ We experienced rapid expansion from our inception in 2002 through the end of 2007, which has strained, and continues to strain, our resources. Our employees increased from 311 as of December 31, 2003 to 1,363 as of December 31, 2007. To accommodate our growth and expanded business operations, we have implemented, and continue to put into place, a variety of new and upgraded operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, including improvements to our accounting and other internal management systems by dedicating additional resources to our reporting and accounting function, and improvements to our record keeping and contract tracking system. Further, we will need to improve our information and control systems in order to record, process, summarize and report accurate financial information and other required disclosure in a timely manner. All of these measures will require substantial management efforts. If we fail to implement the measures successfully or to effectively manage our growth, our business may be materially and adversely affected. If our customers fail to achieve success in their business, our mobile handset solution and product sales business could be adversely affected. If any of our customers is unsuccessful in its mobile handset sales, whether due to lack of market acceptance of its products, shortage of component supplies, slowdown of replacement sales of mobile handsets or otherwise, the customer may downsize or discontinue its mobile handset business, which in turn could adversely affect our business in mobile handset solution and product sales. Accordingly, our success depends on our customers’ success in their business. We are not certain whether our customers will be able to achieve success in their business and how long they will remain competitive in their business even if initially successful. Defects in our designs could result in a loss of customers and claims against us. Our mobile handset designs are complex and must meet stringent quality requirements. Complex designs such as mobile handset designs sometimes contain defects, errors and bugs when they are first introduced. If any of our designs have reliability, quality or compatibility problems, we may not be able to correct these problems on a timely basis. Consequently, our reputation may be damaged, and customers may be reluctant to continue to contract with us, which could harm our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers. Because we cannot test for all possible scenarios, our designs may contain errors that are not discovered until mass production of mobile handsets. These problems may result in a loss of our customers as well as claims against us. For example, NEC once sought compensation from us due partly to defects in some third-party components we sourced and incorporated in a mobile handset model for NEC. NEC later acknowledged that the design defects were attributable to the third-party components and cancelled its claim against us in light of the new mobile handset models successfully designed by us. We cannot assure you that we will not be subject to claims by other customers in the future, and if we fail on the merits of these claims, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to product liability or product recall exposure and have limited insurance coverage. Our purchase agreements with customers require us to be able to undertake any product recalls for products that we, a regulatory body or our customers determine fail to meet pre-determined specifications, standards, laws, environmental or otherwise, regulations or contains substantial defects or substantial products hazards which could cause damage. We shall bear all costs related to the recall that arise out of our breach of warranty as set forth in the purchase agreement. As we continue to sell completed feature phones and smart phones to our customers in 2007, we are exposed to potential product liability claims in the event that the use of our products causes or is alleged to have caused personal injuries or other adverse effects. A successful product liability claim against us could require us to pay substantial damages. Product liability claims against us, whether or not successful, are costly and time-consuming to defend. Also, in the event that our products prove to be defective, we may be required to recall or redesign such products, which could result in substantial costs, diversion of resources and damage to our reputation. However, as the insurance industry in China is still in an early stage of development, product liability insurance available in China offers limited coverage compared to coverage offered in many other countries. We have acquired product liability insurance, but the coverage provided by this insurance is limited and future liability claims may exceed the coverage limits of our insurance. We cannot assure you that product liability insurance will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. A product liability claim, with or without merit, could result in significant adverse publicity against us, and could have a material adverse effect on the marketability of our products and our reputation, which in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we do not have any business interruption insurance coverage for our operations. Any business disruption or natural disaster could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. We may continue to experience net losses. Although we had recorded net income from the end of 2003 to 2005, a net loss was recorded in 2006 and 2007. We cannot assure you that we will return to profitability in the future. We continue to decrease our operating expenses as a proportion to our sales to control cost. However, any decrease or delay in generating additional revenues could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and result 5 Table of Contents in substantial operating losses as the operating expenses might not decline to the same extent that revenues are decreased. In addition, competition from other independent mobile handset solution providers and original design manufacturers, or ODMs, may force us to reduce our prices to maintain our competitive position. If we do not achieve profitability or otherwise meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the market price of our ADSs will likely decline. If we cannot keep up with industry standards and design new mobile handset models in a timely and cost-efficient manner to meet our customers’ demand, the growth and success of our business will be materially and adversely affected. The mobile handset market is characterized by changing end-user preferences and demand for new and advanced functions and applications on mobile handsets, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, intense competition, evolving industry standards and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. If we cannot design new mobile handset models in a timely and cost-efficient manner to meet our customers’ demand, the growth and success of our business will be materially and adversely affected. To date, we have derived most of our net revenues from the sales of components and products. As the market for 2.75G and 3G mobile handsets develops, our existing and potential customers may increasingly demand 2.75G and 3G mobile handset designs. Since 2006, we have begun to design 2.75G, 3G and 3.5G mobile handsets, however we do not have a proven track record in this market. We have received orders for 3G and 3.5G mobile handset designs and in 2007 we launched the WCDMA/GSM dual mode dual standby phone, however, we cannot assure you that there will be sufficient customer demand for such phones. Further, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully meet our customers’ demand with respect to cost, quality and time to completion. Our failure to meet customer demand could hurt our reputation and affect our business and results of operation. The mobile handset design market in China is highly competitive, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against our competitors. The mobile handset solution market in China is intensely competitive and highly fragmented. We face competition from in-house handset design teams of OEMs world-wide. In addition, we face current and potential future competition from established suppliers of wireless communications solutions to mobile device manufacturers, which may be in a position to design mobile handsets on their own. These suppliers include ODMs such as Foxconn and Compal Communications. Further, partly due to the low barriers of entry to our business, an increasing number of new players may enter the independent mobile handset design market in the near future. Many of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, sales and other resources than we do. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors. If we lose our license for CDMA technology, we may not be able to obtain alternative licenses in a timely manner. We are dependent on QUALCOMM Incorporated, or QUALCOMM, for CDMA-related technology we use in designing CDMA-based mobile handsets. Suspension or termination of our CDMA license agreement by QUALCOMM could adversely affect our business and prospects, because we may not be able to obtain alternative licenses in a timely manner to meet our customers’ demands. We formed a joint venture with QUALCOMM in 2006 to develop application software for wireless devices to initially focus on CDMA mobile handsets, however, we cannot assure you of our continued successful relationship with QUALCOMM in this joint venture. Any breakdown in this collaboration could adversely affect our business and prospects. We are subject to risks from customers’ claims for refund and liquidated damages. Our agreements with many customers contain refund and liquidated damages provisions, which entitle the customer to demand a refund and liquidated damages if we cannot complete a mobile handset design by the deadline, or if the requisite certifications cannot be obtained, or if we cannot timely deliver our smart phone or feature phone products to our customers. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully perform every customer contract, or that costs associated with refunds and liquidated damages will not be material. Under the recently realigned business of providing turn-key solutions to our smart phone customers, we will outsource the assembly of the final handset products to third-party companies. Any failure of such assembly companies in timely delivering to us the finished products with the stipulated quality will cause us to be liable to our customers. We may not be able to prevent others from unauthorized use of our intellectual property, which could harm our business and competitive position. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, trade secret laws and copyrights, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods to protect our intellectual property rights. Implementation of PRC intellectual property-related laws has historically been lacking, primarily because of ambiguities in the PRC laws and difficulties in enforcement. Accordingly, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology is difficult and expensive. The steps we have taken may be inadequate to prevent the misappropriation of our proprietary technology. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technologies could enable third parties to benefit from our technologies without paying us for doing so, which could harm our business and competitive position. Although we are not 6 Table of Contents currently involved in any litigation, we may need to resort to court action to enforce our intellectual property rights. Litigation relating to our intellectual property might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. See “— Risks Related to Doing Business in China — Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us.” We may face intellectual property infringement and other claims that could be time-consuming and costly to defend and result in our loss of significant rights. Other parties may assert intellectual property infringement and other claims against us. Litigation is expensive and time-consuming and could divert management’s attention from our business. If there is a successful claim of infringement, we may be required to pay substantial damages to the party claiming infringement, develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or license agreements that may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Our failure to develop non-infringing technologies or license the proprietary rights on a timely basis would harm our business. Parties asserting infringement claims may be able to obtain an injunction, which could prevent us from providing our services or using technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property. While currently we do not have any on-going infringement claims against us, we had in the past been, and may in the future be, subject to claims by other parties alleging infringements of their intellectual property rights by our products. To resolve such claims, we may be required to pay licensing fees to third parties, which could adversely affect our financial condition. Any intellectual property litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. In addition, our competitors may initiate litigation proceedings against us or our employees that may strain our resources, divert our management attention or damage our reputation. For example, in 2003, CEC Wireless R&D Ltd., or CECW, brought an unfair competition proceeding against our former affiliate, Beijing Qidi Century Communication Technology Co., Ltd., or Beijing Qidi, and 18 of its employees who subsequently joined us in connection with our divestment from Beijing Qidi. We settled the litigation on behalf of Beijing Qidi and these 18 individuals in order to facilitate our divestment and the transfer of these employees to our company. We cannot assure you that similar proceedings will not occur in the future. Our business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our senior executives, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success depends heavily upon the continued services of our senior executives, especially our Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Defu Dong. We rely on their experience in mobile handset design, business operations and selling and marketing and on their relationships with our shareholders and customers. We do not maintain key-man life insurance for any of our key executives. If one or more of our key executives are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them easily or at all. Therefore, our business may be severely disrupted, and we may incur additional expenses to recruit and retain new officers. Several executives of our company, including our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Defu Dong, were involved in litigation, arbitration or administrative proceedings in the past. Although we are not aware of any pending claims against us or our executives, any future litigation or administrative proceedings involving any of our key executives may result in diversion of management attention away from our business, or damage to our reputation. In addition, if any of our executives joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose our customers. If any disputes arise between our executive officers and us, we cannot assure you the extent to which our rights could be enforced in China, where these executive officers reside and hold most of their assets, in light of the uncertainties with PRC legal system. See “— Risks Related to Doing Business in China — Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us.” If we are unable to attract, train and retain skilled engineers, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Our future success depends on our ability to attract, train and retain additional skilled engineers. Our industry is characterized by high demand and intense competition for talent. We have experienced an approximately 47.4% annual attrition rate to date. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain existing or attract and retain new skilled engineers whom we will need to achieve our strategic objectives. In addition, as we are still a young company and our business has grown rapidly, our ability to train and integrate new employees into our operations may not meet the growing demands of our business. We experience fluctuations in quarterly operating results. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and will likely fluctuate in the future. These fluctuations in operating results depend on a variety of factors, including the demand for our services, the amount of design fees and royalties our customers agree to pay us, the number of milestones we have achieved, the revenues recognized from completion of the design contracts with completion fees, the amount of time required for completion of design contracts, research and development expenses related to our preparation for the design of new mobile handset models, the rate of growth of leading international mobile phone brand owners’ outsourcing of the mobile phone design function, pricing pressure due to competition, shortage of component supplies and the departure of certain key personnel. As a result, we believe that our operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results that may be expected for any future period. Future acquisitions may have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. 7 Table of Contents If we are presented with appropriate opportunities, we may acquire complementary technologies or companies. Future acquisitions would expose us to potential risks, including risks associated with the assimilation of new technologies and personnel, unforeseen or hidden liabilities, the diversion of management attention and resources from our existing business and the inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset the costs and expenses of acquisitions. Any difficulties encountered in the acquisition and integration process may have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. We have limited business insurance coverage in China. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products. As a result, we do not have any business liability or disruption insurance for our operations in China. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster may result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. As we have commenced accounting for employee share options using the fair value method beginning from 2005, such accounting treatment could continue to significantly reduce our net income. Beginning in 2005, we started to account for share-based compensation in accordance with SFAS No.123R, “Share-Based Payment,” (“SFAS No. 123R”), which requires a public company to recognize, as an expense, the fair value of share options and other share-based compensation to employees based on the requisite service period of the share-based awards. The adoption of SFAS No.123R may continue to have a significant impact on our net income. In addition, future changes to various assumptions used to determine the fair-value of awards issued or the amount and type of equity awards granted may also create uncertainty as to the amount of future share-based compensation expense. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material and adverse effect on the trading price of our ADSs. We are subject to the reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, has adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the effectiveness of such companies’ internal control over financial reporting in its annual report. These requirements apply to this annual report on Form 20-F. Our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting for the period covered by this report was ineffective. The material weaknesses we identified are: (1) ineffective inventory management controls, and (2) ineffective control over significant monetary transactions within a subsidiary. If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. As a result, any failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. Risks Related To Doing Business in China Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our services and materially and adversely affect our competitive position. Our business operations are primarily conducted in China. We also believe that a significant portion of the mobile handsets we design are sold to end users in China. Accordingly, our results of operations, financial condition and prospects are subject to a significant degree to the economic, political and legal developments of China. Since the late 1970s, the PRC government has been reforming the economic system in China. These reforms have resulted in significant economic growth. However, we cannot predict the future direction of economic reforms or the effects such measures may have on our business, financial position or results of operations. Any adverse change in the economic conditions in China, in policies of the PRC government or in laws and regulations in China, could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China and investment in the mobile handset industry. Such developments could materially and adversely affect our business, lead to reduction in demand for our services and materially and adversely affect our competitive position. Our business benefits from certain tax incentives, and changes to these tax incentives could adversely affect our operating results. The subsidiaries incorporated in the PRC are governed by the Income Tax Law of the PRC Concerning Foreign Investment Enterprises and Foreign Enterprises and various local income tax laws (“Income Tax Laws”). Pursuant to the PRC Income Tax Laws, the foreign investment enterprises are subject to income tax at a statutory rate of 33% (30% of state income tax plus 3% local income tax) on PRC taxable income. However, preferential tax treatment as “new and high technology” companies has been agreed for Techfaith China, Techfaith Beijing, STEP Technologies and Techfaith Intelligent Handset Beijing with the relevant tax authorities and effective in 2003, 2003, 2004 and 2006 respectively. All new and high technology companies are entitled to a preferential tax rate of 15% and are entitled to a three-year exemption from income tax, followed by a 50% reduction in tax rates for the succeeding three years, in accordance with the Income Tax Laws of the PRC. Our subsidiary, TechFaith Shanghai, is qualified as “productive enterprises” and was entitled to a two-year exemption from paying enterprise income tax, or EIT, until December 31, 2006, followed by 50% reduction in tax rates for the succeeding three years. Our subsidiary, TechFaith Shenzhen, also enjoys 8 Table of Contents preference tax treatment as “productive enterprises”, which entitles it to a two-year exemption from paying EIT starting from its first assessable profitable year, followed by 50% reduction in tax rates for the succeeding three years. Our subsidiaries in China are also entitled to a business tax exemption relating to their income derived from any technology development agreement and technical transfer agreement which has been registered with the relevant government authority. Techfaith Hangzhou, is also qualified as “productive enterprise” and has been agreed by the relevant tax authorities to entitle to a two-year exemption from income tax, followed by a 50% reduction in tax rate for succeeding three years effective upon the first assessable profit year. Techfaith Software (China) Limited (“TechSoft”), a 100% owned subsidiary of Techsoft Holding is qualified as “productive enterprise” and has been agreed by the relevant tax authorities to entitle to a two-year exemption from income tax, followed by a 50% reduction in tax rate for succeeding three years effective upon the first assessable profit year. Techfaith Shenyang is subject to income tax at 33% on PRC taxable income. On March 16, 2007, the National People’s Congress, the Chinese legislature, passed a new tax law, which took effect on January 1, 2008. The new law applies a uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate to both foreign-invested enterprises and domestic enterprises. There are enterprises that have already been established prior to the promulgation of the new law and enjoyed low tax rates according to the provisions of the tax laws and administrative regulations that were in force before the promulgation of the new law. Such enterprises may continue to enjoy the preferential tax treatments within five years after the new law is promulgated, and then gradually transition to the tax rate provided in the new law. Enterprises that enjoy the preferential treatment of tax exemption for a fixed term may continue to enjoy such treatment after the promulgation of the new law until such fixed term expires. However, for enterprises that have not yet started to enjoy the preferential tax treatments due to the fact that they have not been profitable, the term of the preferential tax treatments would start running from the year the new law is promulgated, regardless of whether or not they are profitable on such year. Preferential tax treatments will continue to be granted to entities that conduct businesses in certain encouraged sectors and to entities otherwise classified as “new and high technology enterprise,” whether foreign-invested enterprises or domestic companies. Our subsidiaries’ qualifications are subject to an annual assessment by the relevant government authority in China. Thus, there is no assurance that our subsidiaries in China will continue to receive such or any other preferential tax treatment. If any of these incentives are reduced or eliminated by government authorities in the future, the effective tax rates of our subsidiaries in China and our effective tax rates on a consolidated basis could increase significantly. Any such change could adversely affect our operating results. Our subsidiaries in China are subject to restrictions on dividend payments, making other payments to us or any other affiliated company and borrowing or allocating tax losses among our subsidiaries. We are a holding company incorporated in the Cayman Islands. We conduct substantially all of our operations through our subsidiaries in China. In the opinion of our PRC counsel, Genland Law Firm, current PRC regulations permit our subsidiaries in China to pay dividends only out of their respective accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. In addition, our subsidiaries in China are each required to set aside at least 10% of their respective accumulated profits each year, if any, to fund certain reserve funds. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. In addition, current PRC regulations prohibit inter-company borrowings or allocation of tax losses among our subsidiaries in China. Further, if any of our subsidiaries in China incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us. Under the New Income Tax Law effective from January 1, 2008, the rules for determining whether an entity is resident in the PRC for tax purposes have changed and the determination of residence depends amongst other things on the “place of actual management.” If the Company, or its non-PRC subsidiaries, were to be determined to be PRC resident for tax purposes, or they, would be liable to tax in the PRC on worldwide income including the income arising in jurisdictions outside the PRC. The Company is still evaluating its resident status under the new law and related guidance. If the Company were to be non-resident for PRC tax purposes, dividends paid to it out of profits earned after January 1, 2008 would be subject to a withholding tax. In the case of dividends paid by PRC subsidiaries to their foreign investors, the withholding tax would be 10%, unless any such foreign investor’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a different withholding arrangement. Fluctuations in exchange rates could result in foreign currency exchange losses. The value of RMB against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions. The conversion of RMB into foreign currencies, including U.S. dollars, has been based on rates set by the People’s Bank of China. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, RMB is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in a greater fluctuation range between Renminbi and the U.S. dollar. On May 19, 2007, the People’s Bank of China announced a policy to expand the maximum daily floating range of RMB trading prices against the U.S. dollar in the inter-bank spot foreign exchange market from 0.3% to 0.5%. From July 21, 2005 to June 11, 2008, the Renminbi cumulatively appreciated approximately 16.5% over the U.S. dollar. While the international reaction to the RMB revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. 9 Table of Contents The majority of our revenues are denominated in RMB, while a small portion of our cost of revenues is denominated in U.S. dollars. Fluctuations in exchange rates, primarily those involving the U.S. dollar, may affect our cost of revenues and profit margins as well as our net income. In addition, these fluctuations could result in exchange losses and increased costs in RMB terms. Furthermore, as we rely entirely on dividends paid to us by our subsidiaries in China, any significant revaluation of the RMB may have a material adverse effect on the value of and any dividends payable on our ADSs in foreign currency terms. If we decide to convert RMB we receive from our subsidiaries into U.S. dollars for the purpose of distributing dividends on our ordinary shares or for other purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the RMB would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by China’s exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into U.S. dollars. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. Because a majority of our revenues are denominated in RMB, any restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to use revenues generated in RMB to fund any business activities we may have outside China or to make dividend payments in U.S. dollars. The principal regulation governing foreign currency exchange in China is the Foreign Currency Administration Rules (1996), as amended. Under these rules, RMB are freely convertible for trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not for direct investment, loan or investment in securities outside China unless the prior approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, is obtained. Although the PRC government regulations now allow greater convertibility of RMB for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain. For example, foreign exchange transactions under our subsidiaries’ capital account, including principal payments in respect of foreign currency-denominated obligations, remain subject to significant foreign exchange controls and the approval of SAFE. These limitations could affect our ability to obtain foreign exchange for capital expenditures. We cannot be certain that the PRC regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of RMB, especially with respect to foreign exchange transactions. PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident shareholders to personal liability and limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiary, limit our subsidiary’s ability to distribute profits to us, or otherwise adversely affect us. SAFE issued a public notice in November 2005 requiring PRC residents to register with the local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China for the purpose of capital financing, referred to in the notice as a “special purpose offshore company.” PRC residents that are shareholders of special purpose offshore companies established before November 1, 2005 were required to register with the local SAFE branch before March 31, 2006. We have notified beneficial owners of our company who we know are PRC residents to register with the local SAFE branch if they are required to register under the SAFE notice. The failure or inability of beneficial owners of our company resident in the PRC to comply with the registration procedures set forth therein may subject such beneficial owners to fines and legal sanctions and may also limit our ability to contribute additional capital into our PRC subsidiary, limit our PRC subsidiary’s ability to distribute profits to our company or otherwise adversely affect our business. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us. We conduct substantially all of our business through our subsidiaries established in China. Our subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China and, in particular, laws applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises and Sino-foreign joint ventures. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since the PRC legal system is still evolving, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. We face risks related to health epidemics and other outbreaks of contagious diseases, including avian influenza, or avian flu, and SARS. Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of avian flu, SARS or another epidemic or outbreak. Since early 2006, there have been reports of outbreaks of a highly pathogenic avian flu, caused by the H5N1 virus, in certain regions of Asia and Europe. In 2005 and 2006, there have been reports on the occurrences of avian flu in various parts of China, including a few confirmed human cases. An outbreak 10 Table of Contents of avian flu in the human population could result in a widespread health crisis that could adversely affect the economies and financial markets of many countries, particularly in Asia. Additionally, any recurrence of SARS, a highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia, similar to the occurrence in 2003 which affected China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Singapore, Vietnam and certain other countries, would also have similar adverse effects. These outbreaks of contagious diseases, and other adverse public health developments in China, would have a material adverse effect on our business operations. These could include our ability to travel or ship our products outside of China, as well as temporary closure of our offices or other facilities. Such closures or travel or shipment restrictions would severely disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat any future outbreak of avian flu, SARS or any other epidemic. We may incur losses due to business interruptions resulting from the occurrence of natural catastrophes such as earthquakes, fires and acts of terrorism. Should any natural catastrophes such as earthquakes, floods, typhoons or any acts of terrorism occur in Beijing, where our principal offices, or at other locations where we have substantial business operations, we might suffer not only significant property damage, but also loss of revenues due to interruptions in our business operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. In addition, we may suffer substantial losses due to interruptions caused by a severe fire. Risks Related to Shares and ADSs The future sales by our existing shareholders of a substantial number of our ADSs in the public market could adversely affect the price of our ADSs. If our existing shareholders sell substantial amounts of our ADSs in the public market, the market price of our ADSs could fall. Such sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. Our management collectively beneficially owns a majority of our outstanding shares. They and the other shareholders with registration rights may cause us to register the sale of their shares under the Securities Act. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in these shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act immediately upon the effectiveness of the registration. Sales of these registered shares in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. The market price for our ADSs has been and may continue to be volatile. The market price for our ADSs has been and may continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • conditions in the mobile handset market; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other mobile handset design houses; • performance of other China-based companies that are quoted on Nasdaq; • announcements by us or our competitors of new products, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • addition or departure of key personnel; and • fluctuations of exchange rates between RMB and U.S. dollar. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. We may need additional capital, and the sale of additional ADSs or other equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for the foreseeable future. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If these resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and our ability to protect our rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association and by the Companies Law (2007 Revision) and common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and provides significantly less protection to investors. Therefore, our public shareholders may have more difficulties in protecting their interests in the face of actions by our management, directors or controlling shareholders than would public shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. In addition, Cayman Islands’ companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action before the federal courts of the 11 Table of Contents United States. As a result, we may not be able to protect our interests if we are harmed in a manner that would otherwise enable us to sue in a United States federal court. Your ability to bring an action against us or against our directors and officers, or to enforce a judgment against us or them, will be limited because we are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, because we conduct a substantial portion of our operations in China and because the majority of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, and we conduct a substantial portion of our operations in China through our wholly owned subsidiaries and several affiliated entities in China. Most of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States and most of the assets of those persons are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. You may not be able to exercise your right to vote. As a holder of ADSs, you may instruct the depositary of our ADSs to vote the shares underlying your ADSs but only if we ask the depositary to ask for your instructions. Otherwise, you will not be able to exercise your right to vote unless you withdraw the shares. However, you may not know about the meeting enough in advance to withdraw the shares. If we ask for your instructions, the depositary will notify you of the upcoming vote and arrange to deliver our voting materials to you. We cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your shares. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions or for the manner of carrying out voting instructions. This means that you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and there may be nothing you can do if the shares underlying your ADSs are not voted as you requested. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act, or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Also, under the deposit agreement, the depositary bank will not make those rights available to you unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act, or exempt from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. You may not receive distributions on ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical to make them available to you. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it decides that it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. We have no obligation to register ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or other securities under U.S. securities laws. We also have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of ADSs. This means that you may not receive the distribution we make on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available to you. These restrictions may have a material adverse effect on the value of your ADSs. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs represented by the ADRs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary thinks it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. We are controlled by a small group of our existing shareholders, whose interests may differ from other shareholders. Our management beneficially own approximately 38.4% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Mr. Defu Dong, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, has power to vote on behalf of the record holders of these shares over matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including electing directors and approving mergers or other business combination transactions. This concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our ADSs. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders. 12 Table of Contents We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders. Based on the price of the ADSs and our ordinary shares, the composition of our income and assets and our operations, we believe that we were not a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes for our taxable year ended December 31, 2007. However, we must make a separate determination each year as to whether we are a PFIC (after the close of each taxable year) and we cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for our current taxable year ending December 31, 2008 or any future taxable year. A non-U.S. corporation will be considered a PFIC for any taxable year if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets during a taxable year) is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. The future value of our assets is generally determined by reference to the market price of our ADSs and ordinary shares, which may fluctuate considerably. In addition, the composition of our income and assets will be affected by how, and how quickly, we spend the cash we raise in any offering. If we were treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. holder held an ADS or an ordinary share, certain adverse United States federal income tax consequences could apply to the U.S. holder. See “Item 10. Additional Information —E. Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation — Passive Foreign Investment Company.” 