Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this report before making an investment decision with regard to our securities. The statements contained in or incorporated into this offering that are not historic facts are forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by forward-looking statements. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Overall Business Operations Our limited operating history may not serve as an adequate basis to judge our future prospects and results of operations. We have a limited operating history, and have been in operation only since 2003. This limited operating history and the unpredictability of the machinery production industry, makes it difficult for investors to evaluate our businesses and future operating results. An investor in our securities must consider the risks, uncertainties and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in new and rapidly evolving markets. The risks and difficulties we face include challenges in accurate financial planning as a result of limited historical data and the uncertainties resulting from having had a relatively limited time period in which to implement and evaluate our business strategies as compared to older companies with longer operating histories. We may not be able to maintain and/or comply with all applicable government regulation. We are subject to extensive regulation by the central government and by the regional and local authorities of the People’s Republic of China, where our business operations take place. We believe that we are currently in substantial compliance with all material governmental laws and regulations and maintain all material permits and licenses relating to our operations. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be in substantial compliance with current laws and regulations, or whether we will be able to comply with any future laws and regulations. To the extent that new regulations are adopted, we will be required to conform its activities in order to comply with such regulations. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, operations and finances. Compliance with environmental regulations can be expensive, and noncompliance with these regulations may result in adverse publicity and potentially significant monetary damages and fines. As our business operations generate noise, waste water, gaseous and other industrial wastes, we are required to comply with all national and local regulations regarding protection of the environment. We are in compliance with present environmental protection requirements and have all necessary environmental permits to conduct our business. However, if more stringent regulations are adopted in the future, the costs of compliance with these new regulations could be substantial. We believe that we have all necessary permits to conduct our business as it is presently conducted. If we fail to comply with present or future environmental regulations, however, we may be required to pay substantial fines, suspend production or cease operations. We use, generate and discharge toxic, volatile and otherwise hazardous chemicals and wastes in our research and development and manufacturing activities. Any failure by us to control the use of, or to restrict adequately the discharge of, hazardous substances could subject us to potentially significant monetary damages and fines or suspensions in our business operations. Certain laws, ordinances and regulations could limit our ability to develop, use, or sell our products. 4 Our business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our executive officers, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success depends substantially on the continued services of our executive officers, especially our CEO and President, Mr. Hu Xiaoming. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our executive officers. If one or more of our executive officers are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them readily, if at all. Therefore, our business may be severely disrupted, and we may incur additional expenses to recruit and retain new officers. In addition, if any of our executives joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose some of our customers. However, if any disputes arise between our executive officers and us, we cannot assure you, in light of uncertainties associated with the PRC legal system, the extent to which any of these agreements could be enforced in China, where some of our executive officers reside and hold some of their assets. See “—Risks Related to Doing Business in China— Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could have a material adverse effect on us.” Our success depends on attracting and retaining qualified personnel We depend on a core management team. The loss of any of these individuals could prevent us from achieving our business objective. Our future success will depend in large part on our continued ability to attract and retain other highly qualified technical and management personnel, as well as personnel with expertise in government regulation. We face competition for personnel from other companies, domestically, and abroad. If our recruitment and retention efforts are unsuccessful, our business operations could suffer. Lack of property and general liability insurance. We do not carry any property insurance, general liability insurance, or any other insurance that covers the risks of our business operations. As a result, any material loss or damage to its properties or other assets, or personal injuries arising from its business operations would have a material adverse affect on its financial condition and operations. Risks Relating to Our Vehicle Machinery Production Operations We may be subject to significant potential liabilities as a result of production defect and product liability. Through our machinery production operations, we may be subject to production defect and product liability, arising in the ordinary course of business. These claims are common to the machinery production industry and can be costly. 5 With respect to certain general liability exposures, including manufacturing defect and product liability, interpretation of underlying current and future trends, assessment of claims and the related liability and reserve estimation process is highly judgmental due to the complex nature of these exposures, with each exposure exhibiting unique circumstances. Furthermore, once claims are asserted for construction defects, it is difficult to determine the extent to which the assertion of these claims will expand geographically. We may not have sufficient funds available or adequate to cover any liability for damages, the cost of repairs, and/or the expense of litigation surrounding such claims, and future claims may arise out of uninsurable events or circumstances not covered by insurance and not subject to effective indemnification agreements with our subcontractors. The vehicle machinery industry is highly competitive and we are subject to risks relating to competition that may adversely affect our performance. We will be adversely impacted if we cannot compete effectively in the highly competitive vehicle machinery industry. Our continued success depends upon our ability to compete effectively in markets that contain numerous competitors, some of which may have significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. Competition may reduce fee structures, potentially causing us to lower our fees or prices, which may adversely impact our profits. New competition or existing competition that uses a business model that is different from our business model may put pressure on us to change our model so that we can remain competitive. General economic conditions may negatively impact our results. The consumption of entertainment products such as go-karts is dependant on continued economic growth, and the duration, pace and full extent of the current growth environment remains unclear. Moderate or severe economic downturns or adverse conditions may negatively affect our operations. These conditions may be widespread or isolated to one or more geographic regions. A tightening of the labor markets in one or more geographic regions may result in fewer and/or less qualified applicants for job openings in our facilities. Higher wages, related labor costs and the increasing cost trends in the may negatively impact our results as wages and related labor costs. We must compete for customers. The vehicle machinery industry is highly competitive. Some of our competitors may have substantially greater marketing and financial resources than we do, and they may improve their products, reduce their prices or expand or improve their marketing programs in ways that adversely affect our operating results. Because we face intense competition from other machinery vehicle producers and many of our competitors have greater resources than we do, we may not be able to compete successfully and we may lose or be unable to gain market share. The vehicle machinery production business is highly competitive and, therefore, we face substantial competition in connection with the marketing and sale of its projects. In general, such vehicles are price sensitive and affected by many factors beyond our control, including changes in consumer tastes, fluctuation commodity prices and changes in supply due to weather, production, and natural disaster. Our products face competition from other producers in the industry. Most of our competitors are well established, have greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources, have been in business for longer periods of time than we have, and have projects that have gained wide customer acceptance in the marketplace. 6 Risks Related to Doing Business in China Change in political and economic conditions. Since our main country of business operations is China, our business operations and financial position are subject, to a significant degree, to the economic, political and legal developments in China. China's government started implementing its economic reform policy in 1978, which has enabled China’s economy to gradually transform from a "planned economy" to a "socialist market economy." In 1993, the concept of the socialist market economy was introduced into the Constitution of China, and the country has since accelerated development of a market economy. A noteworthy phenomenon in the recent development of China economy is that non-state owned enterprises such as private enterprises play an increasingly important role in China economy and the degree of direct control by China government over the economy is gradually declining. China’s government has been taking macro-economic austerity measures to suppress inflation and curb the pace of economic growth since July 1993. These measures include raising interest rates, tightening credit supply, delaying implementation of certain reform policies on pricing, enhancing financial supervision as well as tightening control on the granting of approval for property and infrastructure projects. However, since 1998, there has been deflation in China’s economy and the current economic policies of China mainly focus on stimulating consumption and expansion of domestic demand. While China’s government has not halted its economic reform policy since 1978, any significant adverse changes in the social, political and economic conditions of China may have fundamental changes in China’s economic reform policies and thus the Company's operations and profits may be adversely affected. Change in tax laws and regulations in China. Various tax reform policies have been implemented in China in recent years. Interpretation of certain PRC tax policies is still awaiting guidance from the government. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the existing tax laws and regulations will not be revised or amended in the future. Uncertainties with respect to the Chinese legal system could have a material adverse effect on us and may restrict the level of legal protections to foreign investors. China's legal system is based on statutory law. Unlike the common law system, statutory law is based primarily on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited as persuasive authority but do not have a binding effect. Since 1979, the PRC government has been promulgating and amending the laws and regulations regarding economic matters, such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. However, since these laws and regulations are relatively new and the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretation of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. The legal system in the China cannot provide the investors with the same level of protection as in the U.S. The Company is governed by the law and regulations generally applicable to local enterprises. Many of these laws and regulations were recently introduced and remain experimental in nature and subject to changes and refinements. Interpretation, implementation and enforcement of the existing law and regulations can be uncertain and unpredictable and therefore have restrictions on legal protections of foreign investors. 7 Changes in Currency Conversion Policies in China. Renminbi (“Yuan” or “RMB”) is not a freely exchangeable currency. Since 1998, the State Administration of Foreign Exchange of China has promulgated a series of circulars and rules in order to further enhance the verification of the truthfulness of foreign exchange payments under the current account items of a China enterprise and has imposed strict requirements in respect of borrowings and repayments of foreign exchange debts from and to foreign creditors under the capital account items and creation of foreign security in favor of foreign creditors. This may cause complicated procedures in foreign exchange payments to foreign creditors under the current account items and thus will affect the restrictions on borrowing of international commercial loans, creation of foreign security and borrowing of RMB under guarantees in foreign currencies. Furthermore, the value of RMB may become subject to supply and demand, which could be largely affected by the international economic and political environment and any fluctuations in the exchange rate of RMB could have an adverse effect on the operational and financial condition of its subsidiaries in China. You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China based on United States or other foreign laws against us, our management or the experts named in the prospectus. We conduct substantially all of our operations in China and substantially all of our assets are located in China. In addition, all of our senior executive officers reside within China. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon our senior executive officers, including with respect to matters arising under U.S. federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. Moreover, our PRC counsel has advised us that the PRC does not have treaties with the United States or many other countries providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgment of courts. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Securities Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related rules and regulations, are creating uncertainty for public companies. We are presently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to new and proposed rules and cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional compliance costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by courts and regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. Maintaining appropriate standards of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In addition, if we fail to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business and our reputation may be harmed. 8 Our stock price may be volatile, which may result in losses to our shareholders. The stock markets have experienced significant price and trading volume fluctuations, and the market prices of companies listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, the stock market in which shares of our common stock are listed, at times, have been volatile in the past and have experienced sharp share price and trading volume changes. The trading price of our common stock is likely to be volatile and could fluctuate widely in response to many of the following factors, some of which are beyond our control: · variations in our operating results; · changes in expectations of our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; · changes in operating and stock price performance of other companies in our industry; · additions or departures of key personnel; and · future sales of our common stock. Domestic and international stock markets often experience significant price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations, as well as general economic and political conditions unrelated to our performance, may adversely affect the price of our common stock. One stockholder owns a substantial portion of our outstanding common stock, which may enable this stockholder to influence many significant corporate actions and in certain circumstances may prevent a change in control that would otherwise be beneficial to our other shareholders. Excelvantage Group Limited controls approximately 60.12% of our outstanding shares of common stock. As a result, Excelvantage Group Limited could have a substantial impact on matters requiring the vote of the shareholders, including the election of our directors and most of our corporate actions. This control could delay, defer or prevent others from initiating a potential merger, takeover or other change in our control, even if these actions would benefit our other shareholders and the Company. This control could adversely affect the voting and other rights of our other shareholders and could depress the market price of our common stock. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, our ability to provide accurate financial statements and comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could be impaired, which could cause our stock price to decrease substantially. Since, prior to becoming a public company in 2007, Kandi operated as a private company without public reporting obligations, and it had committed limited personnel and resources to the development of the external reporting and compliance obligations that would be required of a public company. Recently, we have taken measures to address and improve our financial reporting and compliance capabilities and we are in the process of instituting changes to satisfy our obligations in connection with joining a public company, when and as such requirements become applicable to us. Prior to taking these measures, we did not believe we had the resources and capabilities to do so. We plan to obtain additional financial and accounting resources to support and enhance our ability to meet the requirements of being a public company. We will need to continue to improve our financial and managerial controls, reporting systems and procedures, and documentation thereof. If our financial and managerial controls, reporting systems or procedures fail, we may not be able to provide accurate financial statements on a timely basis or comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as it applies to us. Any failure of our internal controls or our ability to provide accurate financial statements could cause the trading price of our common stock to decrease substantially. 9 Our common shares are thinly traded and, you may be unable to sell at or near ask prices or at all if you need to sell your shares to raise money or otherwise desire to liquidate such shares. We cannot predict the extent to which an active public market for its common stock will be sustained. Our common shares have historically been sporadically or “thinly-traded,” meaning that the number of persons interested in purchasing our common shares at or near bid prices at any given time may be relatively small or non-existent. This situation is attributable to a number of factors, including the fact that we are a relatively small company which is relatively unknown to stock analysts, stock brokers, institutional investors and others in the investment community that generate or influence sales volume, and that even if we came to the attention of such persons, they tend to be risk-averse and would be reluctant to follow an unproven company such as ours or purchase or recommend the purchase of our shares until such time as we become more seasoned and viable. As a consequence, there may be periods of several days or more when trading activity in our shares is minimal or non-existent, as compared to a seasoned issuer which has a large and steady volume of trading activity that will generally support continuous sales without an adverse effect on share price. We cannot give you any assurance that a broader or more active public trading market for our common stock will develop or be sustained, or that current trading levels will be sustained. The market price for our common stock is particularly volatile given our status as a relatively small company with a small and thinly traded “float” and lack of current revenues that could lead to wide fluctuations in our share price. You may be unable to sell your common stock at or above your purchase price if at all, which may result in substantial losses to you. The market for our common shares is characterized by significant price volatility when compared to seasoned issuers, and we expect that our share price will continue to be more volatile than a seasoned issuer for the indefinite future. The volatility in our share price is attributable to a number of factors. First, as noted above, our common shares are sporadically and/or thinly traded. As a consequence of this lack of liquidity, the trading of relatively small quantities of shares by its shareholders may disproportionately influence the price of those shares in either direction. The price for its shares could, for example, decline precipitously in the event that a large number of our common shares are sold on the market without commensurate demand, as compared to a seasoned issuer which could better absorb those sales without adverse impact on its share price. Secondly, an investment in our company is a speculative or “risky” investment due to our lack of revenues or profits to date and uncertainty of future market acceptance for current and potential products. As a consequence of this enhanced risk, more risk-adverse investors may, under the fear of losing all or most of their investment in the event of negative news or lack of progress, be more inclined to sell their shares on the market more quickly and at greater discounts than would be the case with the stock of a seasoned issuer. 10 Shareholders should be aware that, according to SEC Release No. 34-29093, the market for penny stocks has suffered in recent years from patterns of fraud and abuse. Such patterns include (1) control of the market for the security by one or a few broker-dealers that are often related to the promoter or issuer; (2) manipulation of prices through prearranged matching of purchases and sales and false and misleading press releases; (3) boiler room practices involving high-pressure sales tactics and unrealistic price projections by inexperienced sales persons; (4) excessive and undisclosed bid-ask differential and markups by selling broker-dealers; and (5) the wholesale dumping of the same securities by promoters and broker-dealers after prices have been manipulated to a desired level, along with the resulting inevitable collapse of those prices and with consequent investor losses. Our management is aware of the abuses that have occurred historically in the penny stock market. Although we do not expect to be in a position to dictate the behavior of the market or of broker-dealers who participate in the market, management will strive within the confines of practical limitations to prevent the described patterns from being established with respect to our securities. The occurrence of these patterns or practices could increase the volatility of our share price. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends. We presently do not anticipate that we will pay any dividends on any of our capital stock in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends, if any, would be contingent upon our revenues and earnings, if any, capital requirements, and general financial condition. The payment of any dividends will be within the discretion of our Board of Directors. We presently intend to retain all earnings, if any, to implement our business plan; accordingly, we do not anticipate the declaration of any dividends in the foreseeable future. Fluctuation in the value of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The change in value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar, Euro and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in approximately 2.1% appreciation of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. While the international reaction to the Renminbi revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. As a portion of our costs and expenses is denominated in Renminbi, the revaluation in July 2005 and potential future revaluation has and could further increase our costs. In addition, as we rely entirely on dividends paid to us by our operating subsidiaries, any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars we receive from this offering into Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the Renminbi amount we receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. 11 If the Company were delisted from NASDAQ, our common stock could be subject to “penny stock” rules which could negatively impact our liquidity and our shareholders’ ability to sell their shares. Our common stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. We must comply with numerous NASDAQ MarketPlace rules in order to continue the listing of our common stock on NASDAQ. There can be no assurance that we can continue to meet the rules required to maintain the NASDAQ listing of our common stock. If we are unable to maintain our listing on NASDAQ, the market liquidity of our common stock may be severely limited. Volatility in Our Common Share Price May Subject Us to Securities Litigation. The market for our common stock is characterized by significant price volatility when compared to seasoned issuers, and we expect that our share price will continue to be more volatile than a seasoned issuer for the indefinite future. In the past, plaintiffs have often initiated securities class action litigation against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We may, in the future, be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and liabilities and could divert management's attention and resources. The Elimination of Monetary Liability Against our Directors, Officers and Employees under Delaware law and the Existence of Indemnification Rights to our Directors, Officers and Employees may Result in Substantial Expenditures by our Company and may Discourage Lawsuits Against our Directors, Officers and Employees. Our articles of incorporation do not contain any specific provisions that eliminate the liability of our directors for monetary damages to our company and shareholders, however we are prepared to give such indemnification to our directors and officers to the extent provided by Delaware law. We may also have contractual indemnification obligations under our employment agreements with our officers. The foregoing indemnification obligations could result in our company incurring substantial expenditures to cover the cost of settlement or damage awards against directors and officers, which we may be unable to recoup. These provisions and resultant costs may also discourage our company from bringing a lawsuit against directors and officers for breaches of their fiduciary duties, and may similarly discourage the filing of derivative litigation by our shareholders against our directors and officers even though such actions, if successful, might otherwise benefit our company and shareholders. Past Activities Of Stone Mountain and Our Affiliates May Lead to Future Liability. Prior to our Stone Mountain’s into the share exchange agreement with Continental on June 29, 2007, Stone Mountain engaged in businesses unrelated to our current operations. Although the Stone Mountain Shareholders are providing certain indemnifications against any loss, liability, claim, damage or expense arising out of or based on any breach of or inaccuracy in any of their representations and warranties made regarding such acquisition, any liabilities relating to such prior business against which we are not completely indemnified may have a material adverse effect on us. 12 We may need additional capital, and the sale of additional shares or other equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents, anticipated cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for the near future. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If our resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 