D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our limited operating history makes evaluating our business and prospects difficult. We commenced operations in July 2002 and completed our first mobile handset design project in September 2003. We started to design and manufacture handsets and smart phones through Electronics Manufacturing Service (“EMS”) providers for sales to mobile handset brand owners and electronic products wholesale distributors in 2006; this represents our original designed product (“ODP”) business. Our ODP business constituted 81.9%, 65.7% and 42.0% of our total net revenues in 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. With the acquisition of the Citylead in 2010, we began to design our QIGI branded mobile phones and Tecface branded mobile phones, leveraging the design capabilities and EMS suppliers from our ODP business. Our brand name phone sales business contributed 14.1%, 20.9% and 36.5% of our total revenue in 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. We started to develop our game business in 2008, which constituted less than 1.0% of our total revenues in 2009 but approximately 4.0%, 13.4% and 21.5% of our total revenues in 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. We have a limited operating history, especially in the game business, which may not provide a meaningful basis for evaluating our business, financial performance and prospects. We may not have sufficient experience to address the risks frequently encountered by early stage companies, including our potential inability to: • achieve and maintain our profitability and margins; • acquire and retain customers; • attract, train and retain qualified personnel; • maintain adequate control over our costs and expenses; • keep up with evolving industry standards and market developments; or • promptly respond to competitive and changing market conditions. 3 Table of Contents If we are unsuccessful in addressing any of the above risks, our business may be materially and adversely affected. If we do not succeed in our expansions into new businesses, our future results of operations and growth prospects may be materially and adversely affected. As part of our growth strategy, we enter into new businesses from time to time to generate additional revenue streams. Expansions into new businesses may present operating and marketing challenges that are different from those that we currently encounter. For each new business into which we enter, we face competition from existing leading players with abundant experience in that business. If we cannot successfully address the new challenges and compete effectively against the existing leading players and gain experience in each new business, we may be unable to develop a sufficiently large customer and user base, recover the costs incurred for developing and marketing new businesses, and eventually achieve profitability from these businesses, and our future results of operations and growth prospects may be materially and adversely affected. Our business is sensitive to global economic conditions. A severe or prolonged downturn in the global or Chinese economy could materially and adversely affect our business and our financial condition. Our business and operations are primarily based in China and the majority of our revenues are derived from our operations in China. Our financial results have been, and are expected to continue to be, affected by economic conditions in the global markets and in China as well as by changes in the relevant industries in China. The global financial markets experienced significant disruptions in 2008 and the United States, Europe and other economies went into recession. The recovery from the lows of 2008 and 2009 was uneven and it is facing new challenges, including the escalation of the European sovereign debt crisis since 2011 and the slowdown of the Chinese economy in 2012. It is unclear whether the European sovereign debt crisis will be contained, what effects it may have, and whether the Chinese economy will resume its previous high growth rate. There is considerable uncertainty over the long-term effects of the expansionary monetary and fiscal policies that have been adopted by the central banks and financial authorities of some of the world’s leading economies, including China’s. There have been concerns over unrest in the Middle East and Africa, which have resulted in volatility in oil and other markets, and over the possibility of a war involving Iran. There have also been concerns about the economic effect of the earthquake, tsunami and nuclear crisis in Japan and tensions in the relationship between China and Japan. As of December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012, we had 471, 470 and 358 employees, respectively. There is no assurance that we can continue to effectively meet shifting market demand with our current restructured work force. If we cannot timely and effectively meet market demand with our restructured work force, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Economic conditions in China are sensitive to global economic conditions. Any persistent slow-down in the global or Chinese economy or the recurrence of any financial disruptions may materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition in a number of ways. For example, the weakness in the economy could erode consumer confidence which, in turn, could result in changes to consumer spending patterns for our products and services. If consumer demand for the products and services we offer decreases, our revenues may decline. Furthermore, the recent financial turmoil affecting the financial markets and banking system may significantly restrict our ability to obtain financing in the capital markets or from financial institutions on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Entering into 2013, we expect that China’s economy will continue to be subject to uncertainties, in addition to weaknesses in the global economy. If we cannot keep up with industry standards and design or offer new mobile handset models for sale in a timely and cost-efficient manner to meet customer demand, our business will be materially and adversely affected. The mobile handset market is characterized by rapidly changing end user preferences and demand for new and advanced functions and applications on mobile handsets, rapid product obsolescence, price erosion, intense competition, evolving industry standards such as the shift to smart phones based on the Android operating system, and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. If we cannot design new mobile handset models for sale in a timely and cost-efficient manner to meet our customers’ demand, our business will be materially and adversely affected. 4 Table of Contents We might not be able to innovate, develop and bring our mobile products and location-based services or other services to market and delays in the ramp-up of new product deliveries may results from a variety of factors including failure to anticipate consumer trends and needs, insufficient and ineffective internal and external execution in our research and product development process or an inability to secure sufficient quantities of necessary components or software assets from suppliers or third parties on a timely basis. As the market for third-generation and fourth-generation, or 3G and 4G, mobile handsets continues to develop, our existing and potential customers may increasingly demand more 3G and 4G mobile handsets. In 2010, we launched motion gaming mobile devices and TV phones. In 2011 and 2012, we launched high standard, ruggedized Android-based smart phones. In 2012, we started to distribute the WCDMA/GSM 3.5G rugged IP67 Android smart phones to Hong Kong, South America and Latin America, and also received increased sales orders from our customers for our ruggedized Android-based smart phones. However, we cannot assure you that there will be sufficient customer demand for such phones in the future. Further, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully meet our customers’ demand with respect to cost, quality and time to completion. Our failure to meet customer demand and expectations could hurt our reputation and affect our business and cost us existing customers and negatively affect our results of operations. QUALCOMM Incorporated, or QUALCOMM, has also lowered the entry barrier for many smaller handset companies through the introduction of MSM6240 and MSM6270 chipsets for the production of 3.5G mobile phones. In addition, Google Android mobile operating system is widely adopted with less differentiation among different operating systems, greatly increasing the level of competition in this area. MediaTek has also launched 3 chipsets, namely MT6575, MT6577and MT6589, which greatly increased the level of competition for the Android smart phones market. These chipsets further lowered the entry barrier for companies that are interested in developing smart phones based on the Android operating system and eventually increased the level of competition within the mobile phone industry. The introduction of Google Android represents both opportunities and threats for us. We have shifted our focus from Windows Mobile operating system to Google Android platform. The Android operating system is being commonly adopted by most of our competitors and with less differentiation within each of their operating systems, presenting bigger threats and tougher competition for us in this area. More co-operation with third parties software providers are also required to make our products compatible with Android operating system, which may in turn increase our research and development expenditure in this area. The availability and success of Google’s Android platform has made entry and expansion in the smart phone market easier for a number of hardware manufacturers which have chosen to join Android’s ecosystem, especially at the mid to low range of the smart phone market. This has increased our competition and is likely to reduce our gross margin in the mid-range smart phones. The addressable market for feature phones may further reduce in size if the higher-end price points become dominated by more affordable smart phones, such as Android-based smart phones. In some regions, especially in Europe and China, overall market demand for feature phones may decline further, which may materially and adversely affect our business. Increased competition in the market and the negative impact of our shifting of focus from Windows Mobile-based smart phones to Android-based smart phones led to a significant decline in our business in 2012. Our net revenues decreased by 57.5% from US$323.8 million in 2011 to US$137.7 million in 2012. There is no assurance that we can regain our ability in generating revenues back to previous levels. If our customers fail to achieve success in their business, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. If any of our major customers is unsuccessful in its mobile handset sales, whether due to lack of market acceptance of its products, shortage of component supplies, slowdown of replacement sales of mobile handsets or otherwise, the customer may downsize or discontinue its mobile handset business, which in turn could adversely affect our original developed products, or ODP, business and brand name phone sales. Accordingly, our success depends on our customers’ success in their business. Our largest customer in 2010, 2011 and 2012 contributed approximately 11.4%, 14.9% and 8.9% of our net revenues, respectively, and our largest three customers in 2010, 2011 and 2012 contributed approximately 30.4%, 37.6% and 20.0% of our net revenues, respectively. We are not certain whether our customers will be able to achieve success in their business or how long they will remain competitive in their business even if they are initially successful. If any of our customers experiences financial difficulty or is otherwise unable to achieve success in its own business, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 5 Table of Contents We are exposed to inventory risks and the credit risk in relation to our customers. As our product sales constitute the majority of our revenues, we are correspondingly exposed to inventory risks. Although we arrange with our electronics manufacturing services, or EMS, providers for product manufacturing according to the sales orders we receive, we nevertheless need to order some raw material and components in advance of assigning them to the EMS providers and to build inventory in advance of customers’ orders to balance the longer lead time for components and shorter delivery time requested by our customers. Because demand for our products is affected by a number of factors, including competition and general economic conditions, there is a risk that we may forecast customer demand incorrectly and order from third parties in excess or insufficient inventories of particular products. In addition, credit risk in relation to our customers may arise from events or circumstances beyond our control. For instance, an economic downturn may cause our customers to default under their ODP product contracts with us and expose us to the risk that our customers may refuse to buy from us the number of mobile handsets specified in their purchase orders or may not be able to pay us timely or at all in accordance with the sales contracts. Even if we may sometimes be able to retain as penalties the partial prepayments or deposits received from such defaulting customers, this might not be sufficient to offset the resulting loss of profits and the increased cost of unsold inventory. If our customers default in paying us, we would have to make provisions for doubtful debts or incur bad debt write-offs and our business would be materially and adversely affected. We are dependent on our suppliers and EMS providers for timely manufacturing and delivery of the products sold to our customers. We rely on our suppliers for procuring the raw materials and components required for the manufacturing of the mobile handsets that we sell to our customers. As we do not have our own manufacturing facilities, we rely on EMS providers for the assembling and manufacturing of these products. If these suppliers or EMS providers fail to deliver their goods or services to us in a timely manner and fail to meet our quality standard, our ability to deliver the finished products to our customers on a timely basis will be affected. If we fail to maintain our relationships with existing suppliers or EMS providers or fail to find new suppliers or EMS providers on competitive terms, our business operations and financial results may be materially and adversely affected. A supplier may fail to meet our requirements, such as, most notably, the product quality, safety, security and other standards set by us or our customers. Consequently, some of our products may be unacceptable to us and our customers, or may fail to meet our quality control standards. In case of issues affecting a product’s safety or regulatory compliance, we may be subjected to damages due to product liability, or defective products, components or services may need to be replaced or recalled. The mobile handset market in China is highly competitive, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against our competitors. The mobile handset market in China is intensely competitive and highly fragmented. We face current and potential competition from established suppliers of wireless communications solutions to mobile device manufacturers. These competitors include original design manufacturers such as Sim Technology Group Limited, BYD Electronic Limited, Longcheer Holdings Limited and other smaller mobile phones original design manufacturers. We are also facing greater competition from the existing popular branded mobile phone companies, such as Apple, Samsung, ZTE, Huawei and others. Compared against these competitors, our own branded mobile phones may lack market awareness, cost advantages, and good distribution channels. This may in turn result in lower demand levels and fewer shipments for our branded mobile phones in the future. We also face competitors that outsource the manufacturing to EMS providers because they, like us, do not own the necessary manufacturing facilities. For this group of competitors, the outsourcing of the manufacturing process allows lower operating costs and reduced capital investments and other fixed costs. This in turn results in low barriers of entry, and accordingly may lead to an increasing number of new players into this market. 6 Table of Contents Our strategy to acquire or invest in complementary businesses and assets to establish strategic alliances involves significant risk and uncertainties that may prevent us from achieving our objectives and harm our financial condition and results of operations. As part of our plan to expand our product and service offerings, we have made and intend to continue making strategic acquisitions or investments in complementary businesses in China. Our strategic acquisitions and investments could subject us to uncertainties and risks, including: • high acquisition and financing costs; • potential ongoing financial obligations and unforeseen or hidden liabilities; • failure to achieve our intended objectives, benefits or revenue-enhancing opportunities; • cost of, and difficulties in, integrating acquired businesses and managing a larger business; • potential claims or litigation regarding our board’s exercise of its duty of care and other duties required under applicable law in connection with any of our significant acquisitions or investments approved by the board; and • diversion of our resources and management attention. Our failure to address these uncertainties and risks may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may establish strategic alliances with various third parties to further our business purpose from time to time. Strategic alliances with third parties could subject us to a number of risks, including risks associated with sharing proprietary information, non-performance by counter-parties, and an increase in expenses incurred in establishing new strategic alliances, any of which may materially and adversely affect our business. Our business depends substantially on the continued use of certain intellectual property rights, and any termination of or infringement upon such rights may harm our business and competitive position. Our business depends substantially on the use of certain intellectual property rights. For example, we are dependent on QUALCOMM for CDMA- and WCDMA-related technology we use in designing, manufacturing and selling CDMA- and WCDMA-based mobile handsets. Suspension or termination of our CDMA and WCDMA license agreement by QUALCOMM could adversely affect our business and prospects, because we may not be able to obtain alternative licenses in a timely manner to meet our customers’ demands. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secret laws and copyrights, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods to protect our intellectual property rights. Implementation of PRC intellectual property-related laws has historically been lacking, primarily because of ambiguities in the PRC laws and difficulties in enforcement. Accordingly, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology is difficult and expensive, and the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may be inadequate to prevent the misappropriation of our proprietary technology. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technologies could enable third parties to benefit from our technologies without paying us, which could harm our business and competitive position. In 2012, we filed suit against Samsung Telecommunications (Tianjin) Ltd. for patent infringement in China in relation to Samsung’s GT-B7732 model mobile phone. We intend to pursue all possible remedies in this dispute in defense of our intellectual property rights. This litigation and any other future instances of patent infringement might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. See “— Risks Related to Doing Business in China — Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us.” 7 Table of Contents We may face intellectual property infringement and other claims that could be time-consuming and costly to defend and result in our loss of significant rights. Other parties may assert intellectual property infringement and other claims against us; for example, there is no assurance that online games or other content posted on our websites do not or will not be deemed to infringe upon patents, valid copyrights or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. Litigation is expensive and time-consuming and could divert management’s attention from our business. If there is a successful claim of infringement, we may be required to pay substantial damages to the party claiming infringement, develop alternate non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or license agreements that may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Our failure to develop non-infringing technologies or license the proprietary rights on a timely basis would harm our business. Parties asserting infringement claims may be able to obtain an injunction, which could prevent us from providing our services or using technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property. While currently we do not have any on-going infringement claims against us, we had in the past been, and may in the future be, subject to claims by other parties alleging infringements of their intellectual property rights by our products. To resolve such claims, we may be required to pay licensing fees to third parties, which could adversely affect our financial condition. Any such claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Our business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our senior executives, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success depends heavily upon the continued services of our senior executives, especially our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Defu Dong. We rely on the experience of our senior executives in mobile handset design and our manufacturing, business operations and selling and marketing and also depend on their relationships with our customers. We do not maintain key-man life insurance for any of our key executives. If one or more of our key executives are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them easily or at all. Therefore, our business may be severely disrupted, and we may incur additional expenses to recruit and retain new officers. Several executives of our company, including Mr. Defu Dong, have been involved in litigation, arbitration or administrative proceedings in the past. Although we are not aware of any pending claims against us or our executives in 2012, any future litigation or administrative proceedings involving any of our key executives may result in diversion of management attention away from our business, or damage to our reputation. In addition, if any of our executives joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose our customers. If any disputes arise between our executive officers and us, we cannot assure you the extent to which our rights could be enforced in China, where these executive officers reside and hold most of their assets, in light of the uncertainties with PRC legal system. See “— Risks Related to Doing Business in China — Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us.” We may incur losses due to business interruptions resulting from the occurrence of adverse public events such as outbreak of epidemics, acts of terrorism, fires and natural catastrophes such as earthquakes. Any prolonged occurrence of an epidemic such as H1N1, avian flu or SARS or other adverse public health developments in China may lead to, among other events, quarantines or closures of our offices which could severely disrupt our operations or the sickness or death of our key officers and employees, and a general slowdown in the Chinese economy. Any of the foregoing events or other unforeseen consequences of public health problems could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, acts of terrorism, fires or natural disasters such as earthquakes that affect where our principal offices are located or other locations where we have substantial business operations, may lead to significant loss of revenue by disrupting our business operations and may also materially and adversely affect our business. For example, the 9.0 magnitude earthquake that took place in Japan in March 2011 disrupted the supply of various components, which affected our production schedule for several products. Also, the unstable situation and ongoing conflict in the Middle East has also affected our business in several ways, such as the reduction of orders from customers and the increase of shipment costs to and from these regions. 8 Table of Contents Failure to maintain effective internal controls and other factors could have a material and adverse effect on the trading price of our ADSs. Certain factors, including a failure to maintain effective internal control or any restatement of our financial statements, could cause the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, has adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the effectiveness of such companies’ internal control over financial reporting in each of their annual reports. This requirement applies to this annual report on Form 20-F. In addition, as a non-accelerated filer, we have chosen to voluntarily comply with the provisions of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 that require independent auditor attestation; our independent registered public accounting firm has attested to and reported on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2012. See “Item 15. Controls and Procedures.” However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain effective internal control in the future, and if we fail to maintain effective internal control in the future, our management and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Furthermore, we have incurred and anticipate that we will continue to incur considerable costs, management time and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In addition, we previously restated our financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2009 to reflect a correct treatment of certain senior secured convertible promissory notes. Despite our best efforts to carefully consider and analyze accounting implications of non-routine events, we cannot be sure that there will not be restatements in the future, which may in turn result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. We are subject to product liability or product recall exposure and have limited insurance coverage. Our sales agreements with customers require us to recall products that we, a regulatory body or any of our customers determine as failing to meet pre-determined specifications, standards, laws, regulations or containing substantial defects or substantial product hazards which could cause damage. These events may be considered a breach of our purchase agreement warranty to our customers and we may be required to bear all costs related to the resulting product recalls. As we continue to sell completed feature phones and smart phones to our customers, we are exposed to potential product liability claims in the event that the use of our products causes or is alleged to have caused personal injuries or other adverse effects. A successful product liability claim against us could require us to pay substantial damages. Product liability claims against us, whether successful or not, are costly and time-consuming to defend. Also, although we have not been found to produce defective products in the past, in the event that our products prove to be defective, we may be required to recall or redesign such products, which could result in substantial costs, diversion of management attention and resources and damage to our reputation. However, as the insurance industry in China is still in an early stage of development, product liability insurance available in China offers limited coverage compared to coverage offered in many other countries. We cannot assure you that product liability insurance will continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. A product liability claim, with or without merit, could result in significant adverse publicity against us and could negatively impact the marketability of our products and our reputation, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we do not have any business interruption insurance coverage for our operations. Any business disruption or natural disaster could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and materially and adversely affect our business. 9 Table of Contents Risks from customers’ claims for refund and liquidated damages. Our agreements with many customers contain refund and liquidated damages provisions, which entitle the customers to demand refunds and liquidated damages if we cannot complete a mobile handset design by a specified deadline, if the requisite certifications cannot be obtained, or if we cannot timely deliver our smart phone or feature phone products to our customers. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully perform under every customer contract, or that costs associated with refunds and liquidated damages will not be material. Under the realigned business of providing turn-key solutions to our smart phone customers, we will outsource the assembly of final handset products to third-party companies. Any failure of such assembly companies in timely delivering to us the finished products with the stipulated quality will cause us to be liable to our customers. Defects in our mobile handset designs could result in loss of customers and claims against us. Our mobile handset designs are complex and must meet stringent quality requirements. Complex designs such as mobile handset designs sometimes contain defects, errors and bugs when they are first introduced. If any of our designs have reliability, quality or compatibility problems, we may not be able to correct these problems on a timely basis. Consequently, our reputation may be damaged, and customers may be reluctant to continue their contract with us, which could harm our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers. Because we cannot test for all possible scenarios, our product designs may contain errors that are not discovered until mobile handsets have gone into mass production. These problems may result in a loss of our customers as well as claims against us. We face such risk not only in the case of the customers for our handset design services, but also in the case of the customers for our product sales. As our revenues continue to be increasingly dominated by product sales, any design defects in the mobile handsets that we sell to such customers may subject us to liability. We cannot assure you that we will not be subject to claims by our customers in the future, and if we fail on the merits of these claims, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We face risks and uncertainties regarding our game business. Our game business is comparatively new and faces rapidly evolving industry landscape and concepts; as a result, its performance is subject to a high degree of uncertainty. The game business is intensively competitive and driven in large part by the ability to deliver popular “hit” products. If we fail to deliver popular “hit” products to the market or if customers prefer our competitor’s products or services over those we provide, our operating results will suffer. Our operating results with respect to games will continue to depend on numerous factors beyond our control, including: the growth in mobile handset use, personal computer use, Internet use, broadband users, mobile and online games penetration in China and other markets and the rate of any such growth; general economic conditions affecting consumer disposable income; the availability and rising popularity of other forms of entertainment; and changes in consumer demographics and public tastes and preferences. Our ability to plan for product development, distribution and promotional activities will be significantly affected by our ability to anticipate and adapt to relatively rapid changes in consumer tastes and preferences. There is no assurance that we would able to track and respond to these changes in consumer preferences in a timely and effective manner. Risks Related To Our Corporate Structure If the PRC government finds that the arrangements that establish the structure for operating our China business are inadequate in any way, we could be subject to severe penalties and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We entered into contractual arrangements with QIGI Technology, our variable interest entity in the PRC, under which QIGI Technology operates the business in relation to QIGI branded mobile phones in China. These contractual arrangement enable us to (1) have the power to direct the activities that most significantly affect the economic performance of QIGI Technology; (2) receive substantially all of the economic benefits from QIGI Technology for the services provided by our wholly owned subsidiary in China; and (3) have an exclusive option to purchase all or part of the equity interests in QIGI Technology, or request any existing shareholders of QIGI Technology to transfer all or part of the equity interest in QIGI Technology to another party designated by us at any time at our discretion. We previously also had similar contractual arrangements with Techfaith Interactive, but such arrangements were discontinued in October 2012 when Techfaith Interactive started to undergo liquidation proceedings. For details of contractual arrangements with our variable interest entity, see “Item 4. Information on the Company — A. History and Development of the Company” and Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 20-F. 10 Table of Contents Tianyuan Law Firm, our PRC legal counsel, is of the opinion that our corporate structure in China is in compliance with existing PRC laws and regulations, and the contractual arrangements among our wholly owned subsidiaries in China, variable interest entity and the shareholders of our variable interest entity are valid, binding and enforceable under, and do not violate, PRC laws or regulations currently in effect. We have been advised by our PRC legal counsel, however, that there are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of current and future PRC laws and regulations, and these contractual arrangements may be subject to reviews by the PRC government from time to time. See “— Risks Related to Doing Business in China— Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us.” Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the PRC regulatory authorities will not in the future take a view that is contrary to the above opinion of our PRC legal counsel. Our contractual arrangements with our variable interest entity in China and the individual nominee shareholders may not be as effective in providing control over the entity as direct ownership. We operate our business in relation to QIGI brand mobile phones through QIGI Technology in China. QIGI Technology is owned by two PRC individuals, who are also shareholders of us. We have no equity interest in QIGI Technology and must rely on contractual arrangements to control and operate the relevant businesses. These contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing control over QIGI Technology as direct ownership. For example, QIGI Technology and the individual shareholders could breach their contractual arrangements with us by, among other things, failing to operate our business in an acceptable manner or taking other actions that are detrimental to our interests. If QIGI Technology or its individual shareholders fail to perform their obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to incur substantial costs to enforce such arrangements, and rely on legal remedies under PRC law, including contract remedies, which may not be sufficient or effective. Although QIGI Technology currently contributes a relatively small portion of our revenues, if we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, or if we suffer significant delay or other obstacles in the process of enforcing these contractual arrangements, we may not be able to have the power to direct the activities that most significantly affect the economic performance of QIGI Technology, our ability to conduct our business may be negatively affected, and we may not be able to consolidate the financial results of QIGI Technology into our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which could adversely affect our results of operations and damage our reputation. Our ability to enforce the equity pledge agreement between us and our variable interest entity’s shareholders may be subject to limitations based on PRC laws and regulations. The shareholders of QIGI Technology, our consolidated affiliated entity in China, have pledged all of their equity interests in QIGI Technology to Tecface International Technology, our wholly-owned subsidiary in China. An equity pledge agreement becomes effective among the parties upon execution, but according to the PRC Property Rights Law, an equity pledge is not perfected as a security property right unless it is registered with the relevant local branch of the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, or SAIC. We are currently in the process of registering the pledge of equity interests in QIGI Technology with the relevant local branch of SAIC. We believe that the equity pledge agreement among QIGI Technology, shareholders of QIGI Technology and Tecface International Technology became effective and valid on the date when the agreement was duly executed, and we believe lack of registration does not limit the ability of Tecface International Technology to enforce its contractual rights against the shareholders of QIGI Technology under the equity pledge agreement, such as the rights to ask the shareholders to register the equity pledge and to demand that they sell the equity interests being pledged in the event of a default under the agreements secured by the equity pledge. For the same reason, we believe the lack of registration does not limit Tecface International Technology to exercise control over QIGI Technology. However, according to the PRC Property Rights Law, in order to create a valid equity pledge, registration of such pledge with the relevant local branch of SAIC is a precondition. QIGI Technology has not completed the registration of the pledges so far, and the pledges, as property rights, have not become effective under the PRC Property Rights Law. As a result, Tecface International Technology may not be able to successfully enforce the pledges against any third parties that have acquired property right interests in good faith in the equity interests in QIGI Technology. As a result, if QIGI Technology breaches its obligations described above, and there are third parties who have acquired equity interests in good faith, we would need to resort to legal proceedings to enforce the contractual rights of Tecface International Technology under the equity pledge agreements, or the underlying agreements secured by the pledges. 11 Table of Contents Furthermore, according to the PRC Property Law and PRC laws governing guarantees, a pledgee and pledgor are prohibited from making an agreement prior to the expiration of the debt performance period to transfer the ownership of the pledged equity to the pledgee when the relevant obligor fails to pay the debt due. However, under the PRC Property Law, when an obligor fails to pay its debt when due, the pledgee may choose to either conclude an agreement with the pledgor to obtain the pledged equity or seek payments from the proceeds of the auction or sell-off of the pledged equity. If QIGI Technology or its shareholders fail to perform their obligations secured by the pledges under the equity pledge agreement, one remedy in the event of default under the agreement is to require the pledgor to sell the equity interests of QIGI Technology in an auction or sell-off and remit the proceeds to Tecface International Technology Limited, net of related taxes and expenses. We consider it very unlikely that the public auction process would be undertaken since, in an event of default, our preferred approach is to ask Tecface International Technology Limited, a party to the option agreement with QIGI Technology’s shareholders, to designate another PRC person or entity to replace the existing shareholders of QIGI Technology pursuant to the direct transfer option we have under the option agreement; however, such an auction or sell-off, if it takes place, may result in our not receiving the full value of the equity interests in QIGI Technology. Our contractual arrangements may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities and may result in adverse tax consequences to us. Under PRC laws and regulations, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be subject to audit or challenge by the PRC tax authorities within ten years after the taxable year during which the transactions are conducted. We could face material and adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that either the contractual arrangements with Techfaith Interactive or the contractual arrangements between Tecface International Technology and QIGI Technology, our variable interest entity, do not represent an arm’s-length price and adjust variable interest entity’s income in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could, among other things, result in a reduction, for PRC tax purposes, of expense deductions recorded by the variable interest entity, which could in turn increase its tax liabilities. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may impose late payment fees and other penalties to variable interest entity for under-paid taxes. Our consolidated net income may be adversely affected if our tax liabilities increase or if we are found to be subject to late payment fees or other penalties. The individual nominee shareholders of our variable interest entity may have potential conflicts of interest with us, which may adversely affect our business. We do not have any arrangements in place to address such potential conflicts. Given that the contractual arrangements with Techfaith Interactive have been de facto discontinued due to the latter’s liquidation, we have removed Techfaith Interactive from our consolidated financial statements. Thus, QIGI Technology, which is owned by two PRC nationals, is our sole operating variable interest entity as of the date of this annual report. The interests of these individual shareholders may differ from the interests of our company as a whole. We cannot assure you that when conflicts of interest arise, these individual shareholders will act in the best interests of our company or that conflicts of interests will be resolved in our favor. In addition, these individual shareholders of QIGI Technology may breach or cause QIGI Technology to breach or refuse to renew the existing contractual arrangements that allow us to exercise effective control over it and to receive economic benefits from it. Currently, we do not have existing arrangements to address potential conflicts of interest of these individual shareholders; provided that we could, at all times, exercise our option under the option agreement with individuals shareholders of QIGI Technology to cause them to transfer all of their equity ownership in QIGI Technology to a PRC entity or individual designated by us, and this new shareholder of QIGI Technology could then appoint a new director of QIGI Technology to replace the existing directors. In addition, if such conflicts of interest arise, our wholly owned PRC subsidiary could also, in the capacity of individual shareholders’ attorney-in-fact as provided under existing powers of attorney, directly appoint a new director of QIGI Technology to replace the existing directors. We rely on these individual shareholders to comply with the laws of China, which protect contracts, including the contractual arrangements QIGI Technology and its shareholders have entered into with us, which provide that directors and executive officers owe a duty of loyalty to our company and require them to avoid conflicts of interest and not to take advantage of their positions for personal gains. If we cannot resolve any conflicts of interest or disputes between us and these individual shareholders of QIGI Technology, we would have to rely on legal proceedings, which could result in disruption of our business and subject us to substantial uncertainty as to the outcome of any such legal proceedings. 12 Table of Contents Risks Related To Doing Business in China Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our services and materially and adversely affect our competitive position. Our business operations are primarily conducted in China and we believe that a significant portion of the mobile handsets we design are sold to end users in China. Accordingly, our results of operations, financial condition and prospects are subject to a significant degree to the economic, political and legal developments of China. Since the late 1970s, the PRC government has been reforming the economic system in China. These reforms have resulted in significant economic growth. However, we cannot predict the future direction of economic reforms or the effects such measures may have on our business, financial position or results of operations. Any adverse change in the economic conditions in China, in policies of the PRC government or in laws and regulations in China, could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China and investment in the mobile handset industry. Such developments could materially and adversely affect our business, lead to reduction in demand for our services and materially and adversely affect our competitive position. Our business benefits from certain tax incentives, and changes to these tax incentives could adversely affect our operating results. Our income tax is primarily governed by the Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, which was adopted by the National People’s Congress of China on March 16, 2007 and became effective on January 1, 2008. The EIT Law applies a uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate to both foreign invested enterprises and domestic enterprises. Under the EIT Law, an enterprise which qualifies as a “high and new technology enterprise” (“HNTE”) is entitled to a tax rate of 15%. A HNTE status obtained under the EIT Law is valid for three years, after which qualifying entities can apply to renew their HNTE status for an additional three years, provided their business operations continue to qualify for the HNTE status. Both Techfaith China and Techfaith Intelligent Handset Beijing had obtained HNTE status under the old enterprise income tax laws prior to January 1, 2008 and, in addition, obtained HNTE status in December 2008 and renewed their HNTE status in 2011 under the EIT Law. Techfaith China and Techfaith Intelligent Handset Beijing were exempt from tax for three years followed by a 50% reduction in tax rate for the subsequent three years, starting from and 2003 and 2006, respectively. Techfaith Shanghai, a qualified manufacturing foreign investment enterprise located in Shanghai Pudong according to the old enterprise income tax law prior to January 1, 2008, obtained HNTE status in December 2008 and renewed its HNTE status in 2011 under the EIT Law. Techfaith Shanghai was entitled to a preferential tax rate of 15% prior to year 2008, with two years exemption followed by a 50% reduction in tax rate for the subsequent three years under the old EIT law beginning from 2005. Beginning from 2010, the tax rate for Techfaith Shanghai is 15%. One Net has obtained the new HNTE certificate in September 2011 under the EIT Law. Beginning from 2011, the income tax rate for One Net is 15%. Techfaith China, Techfaith Intelligent Handset Beijing and Techfaith Shanghai renewed the HNTE status in 2011, and we believe it is highly likely that our qualifying entities will continue to obtain the renewal in the future. Accordingly, Techfaith China, Techfaith Intelligent Handset Beijing, Techfaith Shanghai and One Net have used the reduced applicable tax rate in calculating deferred tax balances for the foreseeable future. Some of our Chinese subsidiaries, including TechSoft, also enjoyed various income tax exemptions because they were qualified as “foreign investment enterprises” before January 1, 2008. Based on the transition rules of the EIT Law, those Chinese subsidiaries continue to enjoy preferential tax rates from 2008 through 2012 due to the preferential tax qualification obtained prior to January 1, 2008. Those subsidiaries in China will not continue to receive such preferential tax treatment after the transition period. There is no assurance that our subsidiaries in China will continue to receive any other preferential income tax treatment. If any of these incentives are reduced or eliminated by government authorities in the future, the effective tax rates of our subsidiaries in China and our effective tax rates on a consolidated basis could increase significantly. Any such change could adversely affect our operating results. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Regulations — Tax.” 13 Table of Contents Our subsidiaries in China are subject to restrictions on dividend payments, or making other payments to us or any other affiliated company. We are a holding company incorporated in the Cayman Islands. We conduct substantially all of our operations through our subsidiaries in China. Current PRC regulations permit our subsidiaries in China to pay dividends only out of their respective accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. In addition, our subsidiaries in China are each required to set aside at least 10% of their respective after tax profits each year, if any, to fund certain reserve funds until the cumulative amount of such reserves reaches 50% of its registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. In addition, if any of our subsidiaries in China incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict the subsidiary’s ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us. We may be treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes under the EIT Law, which may subject us to PRC income tax for our income originated both within and outside the PRC and PRC income tax withholding for any dividends we pay to our non-PRC shareholders. Under the EIT Law and relevant implementing rules, enterprises established under the laws of non-PRC jurisdictions, but whose de facto management body is located in the PRC, may be treated as “resident enterprises” for PRC tax purposes. The implementing rules of the EIT Law define de facto management as having substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties of the enterprise. The guidance currently available for the definition of “de facto management body” as well as the determination of offshore incorporated PRC tax resident is set forth in a notice and a bulletin issued by the PRC State Administration of Taxation, or SAT, in 2009 and 2011, respectively. The notice and the bulletin apply to a Chinese-controlled offshore incorporated enterprise, which is incorporated under the law of a foreign country or territory and that has a PRC company or PRC corporate group as its primary controlling shareholder. See “Item 4 Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Regulation — Tax”. Based on our analysis of the current facts, we believe that Techfaith and its overseas subsidiaries should not be treated as resident enterprises for PRC tax purposes. However, it continues to be unclear as to how tax authorities will determine tax residency based on the facts of each case. For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012, our calculation of income taxes generally reflects our status as a non-China tax resident company. If the PRC governmental authorities hold that Techfaith or its overseas subsidiaries should be treated as a “resident enterprise” for PRC tax purposes after January 1, 2008, the effective date of the EIT Law, our worldwide income will be subject to PRC income tax at the 25% uniform tax rate, but will exclude any dividend income we receive from our domestic subsidiaries, which are exempted taxable income under the EIT Law. If we and our overseas subsidiaries are treated as “resident enterprises” and are required to pay income tax for dividends paid to our offshore subsidiaries which are not treated as “resident enterprises”, it will materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. With the 10% PRC dividend withholding tax imposed by the EIT Law in 2008, we will incur an incremental PRC tax cost when PRC profits are distributed to ultimate shareholders. In addition, if we are determined to be a PRC resident enterprise under the new PRC tax system and receive income other than dividends, our profitability and cash flow would be adversely impacted due to our worldwide income being taxed in China under the new PRC tax law. Under the EIT Law and its implementation rules, dividends payable by a foreign-invested enterprise in China to its foreign investors who are non-resident enterprises are subject to a 10% withholding tax, unless any such foreign investor’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty or similar arrangement with China that provides for a different withholding arrangement. Moreover, under the EIT Law, foreign ADS holders may be subject to a 10% withholding tax upon dividends payable by us and gains realized on the sale or other disposition of ADSs or ordinary shares, if such income is sourced from within the PRC. Although our company is incorporated in the Cayman Islands, it remains unclear whether the dividends payable by us or the gains our foreign ADS holders may realize will be regarded as income from sources within the PRC if we are classified as a PRC resident enterprise. Any such tax on our dividend payments will reduce the returns of your investment. 14 Table of Contents Fluctuation in the value of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including U.S. dollars, is based on rates set by the People’s Bank of China. The PRC government allowed the Renminbi to appreciate by more than 20% against the U.S. dollar between July 2005 and July 2008. Between July 2008 and June 2010, this appreciation halted and the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar remained within a narrow band. Since June 2010, the PRC government has allowed the Renminbi to appreciate slowly against the U.S. dollar again, although there have been periods when the U.S. dollar has appreciated against the Renminbi as well. It is difficult to predict how market forces or PRC or U.S. government policy may impact the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar in the future. There remains significant international pressure on the Chinese government to adopt a substantial liberalization of its currency policy, which could result in further appreciation in the value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. To the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into RMB for capital expenditures and working capital and other business purposes, appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the RMB amount we would receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert RMB into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or ADSs, strategic acquisitions or investments or other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the RMB would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. The M&A Rule sets forth complex procedures for acquisitions conducted by foreign investors which could make it more difficult to pursue growth through acquisitions. The Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Rule, sets forth complex procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the Ministry of Commerce be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise. We may expand our business in part by acquiring complementary businesses or assets in China. Complying with the requirements of the M&A Rule to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the Ministry of Commerce, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. The principal regulation governing foreign currency exchange in China is the Foreign Currency Administration Rules, as amended. Under these rules, RMB are freely convertible for trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not for direct investment, loan or investment in securities outside China unless the prior approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, is obtained. Although the PRC government regulations now allow greater convertibility of RMB for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain. For example, foreign exchange transactions under our subsidiaries’ capital account, including principal payments in respect of foreign currency-denominated obligations, remain subject to significant foreign exchange controls and the approval of SAFE. SAFE issued regulations that require approvals from, and registrations with, PRC government authorities in connection with direct or indirect offshore investment activities by PRC residents and PRC corporate entities. The SAFE regulations retroactively require approval and registration of direct or indirect investments previously made by PRC residents in offshore companies. In the event that a PRC shareholder with a direct or indirect stake in an offshore parent company fails to obtain the required SAFE approval and make the required registration, the PRC subsidiaries of such offshore parent company may be prohibited from making distributions of profit to the offshore parent and from paying the offshore parent proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation in respect of the PRC subsidiaries. Further, failure to comply with the various SAFE approval and registration requirements described above, as currently drafted, could result in liability under PRC law for foreign exchange evasion. Because a majority of our business operations is in China, these regulations could result in the relevant PRC government authorities limiting or eliminating our ability to purchase and retain currencies other than the RMB in the future, which could limit or eliminate our ability to fund any business activities we may have outside China or to make dividend payments in U.S. dollars in the future. 15 Table of Contents PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident shareholders to personal liability and limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us, or otherwise adversely affect us. SAFE issued a public notice in November 2005 requiring PRC residents to register with the local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China for the purpose of capital financing, referred to in the notice as a “special purpose offshore company.” PRC residents that are shareholders of special purpose offshore companies established before November 1, 2005 were required to register with the local SAFE branch before March 31, 2006. We have notified beneficial owners of our company who we know are PRC residents to register with the local SAFE branch if they are required to register under the SAFE notice. The failure or inability of beneficial owners of our company resident in the PRC to comply with the registration procedures set forth therein may subject such beneficial owners to fines and legal sanctions and may also limit our ability to contribute additional capital into our PRC subsidiary and our PRC subsidiary’s ability to distribute profits to our company or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us. We conduct substantially all of our business through our subsidiaries established in China. Our subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China and, in particular, PRC laws applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises and Sino-foreign joint ventures. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since the PRC legal system is still evolving, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties. For example, in August 2011, the Ministry of Commerce, or MOFCOM, promulgated the Rules of Ministry of Commerce on Implementation of Security Review System of Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the MOFCOM Security Review Rules, to implement an earlier circular of the General Office of the State Counsel. The MOFCOM Security Review Rules came into effect on September 1, 2011. Under these circulars and rules, a MOFCOM security review is required for foreign investors’ mergers and acquisitions having “national defense and security” implications and mergers and acquisitions by which foreign investors may acquire “de facto control” of domestic enterprises having “national security” implications. In addition, when deciding whether a specific merger or acquisition of a domestic enterprise by foreign investors is subject to a security review, MOFCOM will look into the substance and actual impact of the transaction. The MOFCOM Security Review Rules further prohibit foreign investors from bypassing the security review requirement through various means, including by structuring transactions through proxies, indirect investments and control through contractual arrangements. However, as these circulars and rules are relatively new and there is a lack of clear statutory interpretation regarding the implementation of the rules, there is no assurance that the MOFCOM will have the same view as we do when applying these circulars and rules. Such abovementioned uncertainties may limit legal protections available to us and materially and adversely affect our business. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. The laws and regulations governing Internet-related businesses in China are developing and subject to future changes. If we or any of our PRC operating subsidiaries or variable interest entity fail to obtain or maintain all applicable permits and approvals, our business and operations may be materially and adversely affected. All Internet-related businesses in China are highly regulated by the PRC government. New laws and regulations may be adopted in the future to address new issues that arise from time to time, such as online advertising and other use of the internet in the Group’s operation. Also, different regulatory authorities may have different views regarding the licensing requirements for the operation of any internet related businesses. As a result, there is, and will continue to be, substantial uncertainty in the interpretation and implementation of current and any future PRC laws and regulations applicable to any internet related businesses. While we believe that we are in material compliance with all applicable PRC laws and regulations currently in effect, we cannot assure you that we will not be found to be in violation of any current or future PRC laws and regulations in the future. 16 Table of Contents Additional government regulations resulting from negative publicity in China regarding Internet-related aspects of our business or otherwise may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Implementation of new labor laws in China may adversely affect our business and results of operations. China adopted a labor contract law, or the Labor Contract Law, which went into effect on January 1, 2008. The Labor Contract Law imposes more stringent requirements on employers with regard to, among other things, minimum wages, and severance payments upon permitted termination of the employment by an employer and non-fixed term employment contracts, time limits for probation periods as well as the duration and the times that an employee can be placed on a fixed term employment contract. According to the Labor Contract Law, an employer is obliged to sign an unlimited-term labor contract with any employee who has worked for the employer for ten consecutive years. Further, if an employee requests or agrees to renew a fixed-term labor contract that has already been entered into twice consecutively, the resulting contract is deemed to have an unlimited term, with certain exceptions. The employer must also pay severance to an employee in nearly all instances where a labor contract, including a contract with an unlimited term, is terminated or expires. In addition, the PRC government has continued to introduce various new labor-related regulations since the implementation of the Labor Contract Law. Among other things, new annual leave requirements mandate that annual leave ranging from five to 15 days be made available to nearly all employees and further require that each employer compensates an employee for any annual leave days the employee is unable to take in the amount of three times his daily salary, subject to certain exceptions. In addition, China has adopted a social insurance law, or the Social Insurance Law, which went into effect on July 1, 2011. The Social Insurance Law provides detailed obligations against employers relating to social welfare contributions for employees including pension, unemployment insurance, childbirth insurance, work-related injury insurance and medical insurance, and requires the employers to pay for employees social welfare based upon certain percentages of employees’ salaries. Due to the limited period of effectiveness of the social insurance law and the lack of clarity with respect to its implementation as well as the potential penalties and fines involved, it is uncertain how this law may impact our business and results of operations. As a result of these and future measures that may be implemented to enhance labor protection in China, our labor costs may increase and we cannot assure you that our employment practices do not or will not violate the Labor Contract Law, the Social Insurance Law or any other existing or future labor-related regulations in China. If we are subject to severe penalties or found to incur significant liabilities in connection with labor disputes or investigations, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. We may be adversely affected by the outcome of the administrative proceedings brought by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission against five accounting firms in China. 17 Table of Contents Recently, the SEC commenced administrative proceedings under Rule 102(e) of its Rules of Practice and also under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 against the Chinese affiliates of the “big four” accounting firms, including our auditors, and also against BDO China Dahua. The Rule 102(e) proceedings initiated by the SEC relate to these firms’ failure to produce documents, including audit workpapers, to the request of the SEC pursuant to Section 106 of the Sarbanes- Oxley Act of 2002, as the auditors located in the PRC have stated they are not in a position lawfully to produce documents directly to the SEC because of restrictions under PRC law and specific directives issued by the China Securities Regulatory Commission. To our knowledge, we are not subject to any SEC investigations, nor are we a party to the administrative proceedings brought by the SEC against the accounting firms. As the administrative proceedings are ongoing, it is impossible to determine their outcome or the consequences thereof to us. The issues raised by the proceedings are not specific to our auditors or to us, but affect equally all audit firms based in China and all China-based businesses with securities listed in the United States. However, if the administrative judge were to find in favor of the SEC under the proceeding and depending upon the remedies sought by the SEC, these audit firms could be barred from practicing before the SEC. As a result, listed companies in the United States with major PRC operations may find it difficult or impossible to retain auditors in respect of their operations in the PRC, which may result in their delisting and deregistration by the SEC. Moreover, any negative news about the proceedings against these audit firms may erode investor confidence in China-based, United States listed companies and the market price of our ADSs may be adversely affected. The audit report included in this annual report are prepared by auditors who are not inspected by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, consequently, investors may be deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Our independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the SEC, as auditors of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or PCAOB, is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because our auditors are located in the Peoples’ Republic of China, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the Chinese authorities, our auditors are not currently inspected by the PCAOB. Inspections of other firms that the PCAOB has conducted outside China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. The lack of PCAOB inspections in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating our auditor’s audits and its quality control procedures. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of auditors in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors outside of China that are subject to PCAOB inspections. Investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. Risks Related to Shares and ADSs The future sales by our existing shareholders of a substantial number of our ADSs in the public market could adversely affect the price of our ADSs. If our existing shareholders sell substantial amounts of our ADSs in the public market, the market price of our ADSs could fall. Such sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. As of the date of this annual report, our management collectively beneficially owns approximately 32.1% of our outstanding shares. They and the other shareholders with registration rights may cause us to register the sale of their shares under the Securities Act. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in these shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act immediately upon the effectiveness of the registration. 18 Table of Contents On June 9, 2009, to finance the development of our game business, our subsidiary Leo Technology Limited, now renamed 798 Entertainment Limited, issued US$10 million of common equity to the Hong Kong-based venture capital firm Infiniti Capital Limited and US$10 million aggregate principal amount of 8% senior secured convertible promissory notes with a maturity date of three years to IDG-Accel China Growth Fund II L.P. and IDG-Accel China Investors II L.P., or the IDG Funds, which are entities affiliated with IDGVC Partners, a leading venture capital firm. The notes were convertible into our ordinary shares or Leo Technology Limited’s ordinary shares at the option of the note holders. According to the relevant investor rights agreement, each of the IDG Funds chose to convert 62.5% of its share of the principal amount of the 8% senior secured convertible promissory notes into TechFaith’s ordinary shares, and the remaining 37.5% was converted into shares of 798 Entertainment Limited on September 8, 2010, and as a result of the conversion, TechFaith issued 78,814,628 of TechFaith’s ordinary shares to IDG Funds. As of the date of this annual report, IDG Funds have met the terms and conditions for resale under Rule 144 of the Securities Act in relation to these shares, represented by 5,254,309 ADSs, and may offer and sell such ADSs from time to time on the open market. Sales of the above-mentioned registered shares and other shares in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. The market price for our ADSs has been and may continue to be volatile. The market price for our ADSs has been and may continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • conditions in the markets for mobile handsets; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other mobile handset design houses, original design product providers or manufacturers; • performance of other China-based companies that are listed on NASDAQ; • announcements by us or our competitors of new products, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • addition or departure of key personnel; and • fluctuations of exchange rates between the RMB and U.S. dollar. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. In particular, the global financial crisis and the ensuing deteriorating global economic conditions have caused and may continue to cause extreme volatility in the global stock markets. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our ADSs, regardless of our operating performance. Volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may also adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, some of whom have been granted options or other equity incentives. We may need additional capital, and the sale of additional ADSs or other equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for the next 12 months. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If these resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. 19 Table of Contents You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and our ability to protect our rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association and by the Companies Law (2012 Revision) and common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and provides significantly less protection to investors. Therefore, our public shareholders may have more difficulties in protecting their interests in the face of actions by our management, directors or controlling shareholders than would public shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. In addition, shareholders of Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action before the federal courts of the United States. As a result, we may not be able to protect our interests if we are harmed in a manner that would otherwise enable us to sue in a United States federal court. Your ability to bring an action against us or against our directors and officers, or to enforce a judgment against us or them, will be limited because we are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, because we conduct a substantial portion of our operations in China and because the majority of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, and we conduct a substantial portion of our operations in China through our wholly owned subsidiaries and variable interest entity in China. Most of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States and most of the assets of those persons are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. You may not be able to exercise your right to vote. As a holder of ADSs, you may instruct the depositary of our ADSs to vote the shares underlying your ADSs but only if we ask the depositary to ask for your instructions. Otherwise, you will not be able to exercise your right to vote unless you withdraw the shares. However, you may not know about the meeting enough in advance to withdraw the shares. If we ask for your instructions, the depositary will notify you of the upcoming vote and arrange to deliver our voting materials to you. We cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your shares. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions or for the manner of carrying out voting instructions. This means that you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and there may be nothing you can do if the shares underlying your ADSs are not voted as you requested. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act, or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Also, under the deposit agreement, the depositary bank will not make those rights available to you unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act, or exempt from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. 20 Table of Contents You may not receive distributions on ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical to make them available to you. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it decides that it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. We have no obligation to register ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or other securities under U.S. securities laws. We also have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of ADSs. This means that you may not receive the distribution we make on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available to you. These restrictions may have a material adverse effect on the value of your ADSs. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary thinks it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. We are controlled by a small group of our existing shareholders, whose interests may differ from other shareholders. As of the date of this annual report, our directors and executive officers as a group beneficially own 32.1% ordinary shares of our company, of which Mr. Defu Dong, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owns 254,695,000 ordinary shares (constituting approximately 32.1% of our current total issued and outstanding shares), and have the power to vote on behalf of the record holders of these shares over matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including electing directors and approving mergers or other business combination transactions. This concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our ADSs. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequences to U.S. Holders. Based on the price of our ADSs and ordinary shares and the composition of our assets (in particular the retention of a large amount of cash), we believe that it is likely that we were classified as a “passive foreign investment company,” (or a “PFIC”), for United States federal income tax purposes for our taxable year ended December 31, 2012, and we will very likely be a PFIC for our current taxable year ending December 31, 2013 unless our share value increases and/or we invest a substantial amount of the cash and other passive assets we hold in assets that produce or are held for the production of active income. In addition, it is possible that one or more of our subsidiaries may be or become classified as a PFIC for United States federal income tax purposes. A non-U.S. corporation will be classified as a PFIC for any taxable year if either (1) 75% or more of its gross income consists of certain types of passive income or (2) 50% or more of the average quarterly value of its assets (as generally determined on that basis of fair market value) during such year produce or are held for the production of passive income. If we were treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. Holder (as defined in Item 10. Additional Information — E. Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation) holds our ADSs or ordinary shares, such U.S. Holder may incur significantly increased United States income tax on gain recognized on the sale or other disposition of the ADSs or ordinary shares and on the receipt of distributions on the ADSs or ordinary shares to the extent such gain or distribution is treated as an “excess distribution” under the United States federal income tax rules. Further, a U.S. Holder will generally be treated as holding an equity interest in a PFIC in the first taxable year of the U.S. Holder’s holding period in which we become classified as a PFIC and subsequent taxable years (“PFIC-Tainted Shares”) even if, we, in fact, cease to be a PFIC in subsequent taxable years. Accordingly, a U.S. Holder who acquires our ADSs during the current taxable year ending 2013 or subsequent taxable years, should, to the extent an election is available, consider making a “mark-to-market” election in the first taxable year of such holder’s holding period to avoid owning PFIC-Tainted Shares. See “Item 10. Additional Information — E. Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation — Passive Foreign Investment Company.” 21 Table of Contents 