ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISKS RELATED TO OPERATIONS Because we have a limited operating history, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve profitability. We have a limited operating history upon which to base an evaluation of our prospects and the potential value of our common stock. In 2006, we began to produce our garden systems and seed kits and we are still in the process of ramping up our production and sales, with multiple new models commencing initial production in the next six months. We are confronted with the risks inherent in an early stage company, including difficulties and delays in connection with the production and sales of our indoor garden systems, reliance on a small number of products and manufacturers, operational difficulties, and difficulty in estimating production and administrative costs. If we cannot successfully manage our business, we may not be able to generate future profits and may not be able to support our operations. We expect to incur substantial additional expenses and losses in the further implementation of our business plan. We may not be able to improve operations and therefore may not become profitable. Because we are in the early stages of implementing our business plan, we cannot predict now if we will ever be profitable. We have incurred substantial losses since inception and may never achieve profitability. Since we commenced operations in 2002, through March 31, 2008, we have incurred substantial operating losses. For the years ended March 31, 2008 and March 31, 2007, we had net losses of $9,835,921 and $10,386,451, respectively, and for the transition period of the three months ended March 31, 2006, we had a net loss of $7,543,343. As of March 31, 2008, our losses from operations have resulted in an accumulated deficit of $39,628,084. The success of our business will depend on our ability to profitably expand sales and distribution of our AeroGarden indoor garden systems to consumers and develop new product extensions and applications. We are subject to many of the risks common to developing enterprises, including undercapitalization, cash shortages, limitations with respect to financial and other resources, and lack of revenues to be self-sustaining. There is no assurance that we will ever attain profitability. 12 Table of Contents If our indoor garden systems fail to perform properly, our business could suffer with increased costs and reduced income. We have limited experience with returns and warranty claims for certain of our products, particularly new models that will be introduced later this calendar year. We may be required to replace or repair products or refund the purchase price to consumers. Failure of our products to meet expectations could: ● damage our reputation; ● decrease sales; ● increase costs related to returns and repairs; ● delay market acceptance of our products; ● result in unpaid accounts receivable; and ● divert our resources to remedy the malfunctions. The occurrence of any of these events would have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We will likely need additional capital to fund our growth. We will likely require additional capital to support our growth and cover operational expenses as we expand our marketing and product development. It is possible that none of our remaining outstanding warrants will be exercised and we will therefore not receive any proceeds therefrom. We may need to issue equity, debt, or securities convertible into equity, which could dilute the current stock ownership in AeroGrow. If we cannot obtain additional financing on acceptable terms, we may not have sufficient capital to operate our business as planned and would have to modify our business plan or curtail some or all of our operations. To address our short-term liquidity needs and the working capital increases necessary to support our anticipated growth, we have put in place a new financing agreement with FCC, LLC d/b/a First Capital that provides us with additional borrowing capacity relative to our prior financing arrangement with Benefactor Funding Corp. (see Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 12 – Subsequent Events in the accompanying Financial Statements). Our intellectual property and proprietary rights are only filed in the United States, give us only limited protection, and can be expensive to defend. Our ability to produce and sell indoor garden systems exclusively depends in part on securing patent protection for the components of our systems, maintaining various trademarks, and protecting our operational trade secrets. To protect our proprietary technology, we rely on a combination of patents pending (and if granted, patents), trade secrets, and non-disclosure agreements, each of which affords only limited protection. We own the rights to 18 United States patent applications. However, these patent applications may not result in issued patents and even issued patents may be challenged. We are selling our indoor garden systems prior to receiving issued patents relating to our patent applications. All of our intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented. Claims for infringement may be asserted or prosecuted against us in the future and we may not be able to protect our patents, if any are obtained, and intellectual property rights against others. Our former employees or consultants may violate their non-disclosure agreements, leading to a loss of proprietary intellectual property. We could also incur substantial costs to assert our intellectual property or proprietary rights against others. Our current or future manufacturers could fail to fulfill our orders for indoor garden systems, which would disrupt our business, increase our costs, and could potentially cause us to lose our market. We currently depend on three contract manufacturers in China to produce our indoor garden systems. These manufacturers could fail to produce the indoor garden system to our specifications or in a workmanlike manner and may not deliver the systems on a timely basis. Our manufacturers must also obtain inventories of the necessary parts and tools for production. We own the tools and dies used by our manufacturers. Our manufacturers operate in China and may be subject to business risks that fall outside our control, including but not limited to, political, currency, and regulatory risks, each of which may affect the manufacturer’s ability to fulfill our orders for indoor garden systems. In addition, weather or natural disasters in China could disrupt our supply of product. Any change in manufacturers could disrupt our ability to fulfill orders for indoor garden systems. Any change in manufacturers could disrupt our business due to delays in finding a new manufacturer, providing specifications, and testing initial production. 13 Table of Contents Our current or future manufacturers are located in China and therefore our product costs may be subject to fluctuations in the value of the dollar against the Chinese currency. Although we purchase our AeroGarden products in U.S. dollars, the prices charged by our factories are predicated upon their cost for components, labor and overhead. Therefore, changes in the valuation of the U.S. dollar in relation to the Chinese currency may cause our manufacturers to raise prices of our products which could reduce our profit margins. Increases in energy prices, resulting from general economic conditions, or other factors, may raise our cost of goods sold and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Energy costs, especially gasoline and fuel costs, are significant expenses in the delivery of our products. Increased costs resulting from general economic conditions, acts of nature, or other factors, may result in declining margins and operating results if market conditions prevent us from passing these increased costs on to our customers through timely price increases on our products. If we are unable to recruit, train and retain key personnel necessary to operate our business, our ability to successfully manage our business and develop and market our products may be harmed. To expand our business we will need to attract, retain, and motivate highly skilled design, development, management, accounting, sales, merchandising, marketing, and customer service personnel. We plan to hire additional personnel in all areas of our business. Competition for many of these types of personnel is intense. As a result, we may be unable to successfully attract or retain qualified personnel. Additionally, any of our officers or employees can terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of any key employee, or our inability to attract or retain other qualified employees, could harm our business and results of operations. We rely on third parties for a significant portion of our manufacturing, warehouse, distribution, order processing, and fulfillment operations. If these parties are unwilling to continue providing services to us, or are unable to adequately perform such services for us on a cost effective basis, our business could be materially harmed. We engage third parties to perform many critical functions. For example, we have outsourced our manufacturing, warehouse, distribution, order processing, and fulfillment operations. Any disruption in our relationship with any of our vendors could cause significant disruption in our business and we may not be able to locate another party that can provide comparable services in a timely manner or on acceptable commercial terms. In addition, no assurance can be made that these relationships will be adequate to support our business as we follow our business plan. RISKS RELATED TO THE RELEVANT MARKET FOR OUR PRODUCT Our future depends on the financial success of our indoor garden systems. Since we have introduced entirely new products without comparable sales history, we do not know if our indoor garden systems and seed kits will generate continued wide acceptance by consumers. We have introduced our indoor garden systems and seed kits as new products to consumer markets unfamiliar with their use and benefits. We cannot be certain that our products will continue to generate and expand the consumer acceptance we have observed to date. If consumers do not purchase our products in sufficient numbers, we will not be profitable. Our marketing strategies may not be successful, which would adversely affect our future revenue and profitability. Our revenue and future depend on the successful marketing of our indoor garden systems. We cannot give assurance that consumers will continue to be interested in purchasing our products. We use direct consumer marketing, including television commercials, infomercials, catalogue, magazine and newspaper advertising, and the Internet. In addition, we collaborate with our retailer customers to market our products to consumers. If our marketing strategies fail to attract customers, our product sales will not produce future revenue sufficient to meet our operating expenses or fund our future operations. We may face significant competition, and if we are unable to compete effectively, our sales may be adversely affected. We believe that our simplified and complete indoor garden systems offer significant benefits over traditional hydroponic industry products. We recognize, however, that there are companies that are better funded and that have greater experience in producing hydroponic products in commercial markets, including, but not limited to, companies such as General Hydroponics and American Hydroponics. These companies could potentially decide to focus on the consumer market with competing products. We could also face competition from gardening wholesalers and large and profitable soil-based gardening companies, including, but not limited to, the Burpee Seed Company and Gardener’s Supply Company, should they decide to produce a competitive product. In addition, other consumer products companies could develop products to compete with our products. These companies may use hydroponic technologies, and may have better consumer acceptance. The success of any competing products may adversely impact us. 14 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO OUR CAPITALIZATION If an exemption from registration on which we have relied for any of our past offerings of common stock or warrants are challenged legally, our principals may have to spend time defending claims, and we would then risk paying expenses for defense, rescission, and/or regulatory sanctions. To raise working capital, we offered common stock and warrants in private transactions that we believed to be exempt from registration under the Securities Act and state securities laws. In 2004 we conducted a state-registered offering in Colorado of common stock and warrants, intended to be exempt from registration under the Securities Act as an intrastate offering. However, because we are incorporated in Nevada, the offering did not satisfy all of the requirements for an intrastate offering. This could result in investors or regulators asserting that the Colorado offering and/or private offerings following the Colorado offering (if the private offerings were integrated with the Colorado offering) violated the Securities Act. There can be no assurance that investors or regulators will not be successful in asserting a claim that these transactions should not be integrated. In the event that one or more investors seeks rescission, with resulting return of investment funds and interest at a market rate, or that state or federal regulators seeks sanctions against us or our principals, we would spend time and financial resources to pay expenses for defense, rescission awards, or regulatory sanctions. The use of funds would reduce the capital available to operate our business. No assurance can be given regarding the outcome of any such actions. There may be substantial sales of our common stock by existing security holders which could cause the price of our stock to fall. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market or the perception that such sales might occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and could impair the value of an investment in our common stock and our ability to raise equity capital in the future. As of March 31, 2008, we had 12,076,717 shares of common stock outstanding, of which 10,060,514 shares may be sold without restriction. (See the following risk factor for discussion of 7,248,687 additional shares that are subject to issuance pursuant to outstanding warrants and options.) The remaining 2,016,203 became tradable, subject to securities laws, on June 22, 2008, in each case when lockup restrictions covering the shares expired. The sales of our common stock by security holders, or even the appearance that such holders may make such sales, may limit the market for our common stock or depress any trading market volume and price before other investors are able to sell the common stock. Moreover, a number of shareholders have held their investment for a substantial period of time and may desire to sell their shares, which could drive down the price of our common stock. Our outstanding warrants, options and additional future obligations to issue our securities to various parties, may dilute the value of an investment in AeroGrow and may adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital. As of March 31, 2008, we were committed to issue up to 7,248,687 additional shares of common stock under the terms of outstanding warrants, options and other arrangements: ● 1,553,591 shares issuable under our 2005 Equity Compensation Plan ● 5,694,736 shares issuable under warrants to purchase our common stock as follows: Weighted Weighted Warrants Average Average Outstanding Exercise Price Remaining Life 10,000 $ 2.50 0.07 15,000 $ 5.00 0.10 580,000 $ 5.01 2.45 644,000 $ 6.00 3.62 2,232,300 $ 6.25 2.90 50,000 $ 6.96 4.33 1,283,436 $ 7.57 3.99 800,000 $ 8.00 6.42 80,000 $ 8.25 6.42 5,694,736 $ 6.66 2.53 For the length of time these warrants, and options are outstanding, the holders will have an opportunity to profit from a rise in the market price of our common stock without assuming the risks of ownership. This may adversely affect the terms upon which we can obtain additional capital. The holders of such derivative securities would likely exercise or convert them at a time when we would be able to obtain equity capital on terms more favorable than the exercise or conversion prices provided by the notes, warrants or options. 15 Table of Contents Further, future sales of substantial amounts of these shares, or the perception that such sales might occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and could impair the value of an investment in our common stock and our ability to raise equity capital in the future. The market price of the shares may fluctuate greatly. Investors in AeroGrow bear the risk that they will not recover their investment. We started trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the ticker symbol AERO, on June 13, 2007, after trading on the OTCBB from January 8, 2007 to June 12, 2007 under the ticker symbol AGWI. No assurance can be made that an active market will develop on the NASDAQ. Currently, trading in our common stock on NASDAQ is limited, and the per share price is likely to be influenced by the price at which and the amount of shares the selling security holders are attempting to sell at any time. This could have the effect of limiting the trading price or lowering the market price to the selling security holders’ offering prices. Shares such as ours are also subject to the activities of persons engaged in short selling securities, which generally has the effect of driving the price down. Also, the common stock of emerging growth companies is typically subject to high price and volume volatility. Therefore, the price of our common stock has fluctuated, and may continue to fluctuate, widely. A full and stable trading market for our common stock may never develop in which event any holder of such shares may not be able to sell at the time he elects, or at all. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 