Item 1A. Risk FactorsRisks Related To Our Business and IndustryOur periodic operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and will continue to fluctuate in the future, which could cause our stock price to decline.Our quarterly and annual periodic operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past, and we believe that they will continue to fluctuate in the future, due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. We expect that our revenue, gross margin, and earnings per share will fluctuate on a periodic basis in future periods. If in future periods our operating results do not meet the expectations of investors or analysts who choose to follow our company, our stock price may fall. Factors that may affect our periodic operating results include the following:•fluctuations in the buying patterns and sizes of customer orders from one quarter to the next;•increased competition causing us to sell our products or services at decreasing margins;•location and timing requirements for the delivery of our products and services;•longer acceptance cycles of our products by certain customers;•addition of new customers or loss of existing customers, especially involving our largest customers;•gross margin obtained on the sales of products and services, especially to our largest customers;•write-off of excess and obsolete inventory;•impairment and shortening of the useful life of components from our suppliers;•unexpected changes in the price for, and the availability of, components from our suppliers;•our ability to enhance our products with new and better designs and functionality;•costs associated with obtaining components to satisfy customer demand;•productivity and growth of our sales force;•actions taken by our competitors, such as new product announcements or introductions or changes in pricing;•revenue and gross margin disparity among our lines of server product and storage product lines;•market acceptance of our newer products, such as Arcfinity and ICE Cube AIR;•technology regulatory compliance, certification and intellectual property issues associated with our products;•the payment of unexpected legal fees and potential damages or settlements resulting from protecting or defending our intellectual property or other matters;•the payment of significant damages or settlements resulting from faulty or malfunctioning products or the provision of services unsatisfactory to our customers;•the market downturn and delay in orders of our products;•compliance costs associated with new laws, rules and regulations, including environmental regulations; •the payment of unexpected IP licensing royalties to third-parties who successfully assert that our product(s) infringe their intellectual property rights;•the departure and acquisition of key management and other personnel; and•general economic trends, including changes in information technology spending or geopolitical events such as war or incidents of terrorism.We face intense competition from the leading enterprise computing companies in the world as well as from emerging companies. If we are unable to compete effectively, we might not be able to achieve sufficient market penetration, revenue growth or profitability.The markets for compute server products and storage products are highly competitive. In addition to intensely competitive smaller companies, we face challenges from some of the most established companies in the computer industry, such as Dell Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company (“HP”), International Business Machines Corporation, Cray, Inc. and Oracle Corporation in the computer server market. In the storage market, we compete primarily with EMC Corporation, HP, Hitachi Data Systems, Inc, and NetApp, Inc. Our largest competitors have at least the following advantages over us:•substantially greater market presence and greater name recognition;•substantially greater financial, technical, research and development, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution and other resources;•longer operating histories;•a broader offering of products and services;•more established relationships with customers, suppliers and other technology companies; and•the ability to acquire technologies or consolidate with other companies in the industry to compete more effectively.Because these competitors may have greater financial strength than we do and are able to offer a more diversified bundle of products and services, they may have the ability to severely undercut the pricing of our products or provide additional 15Table of Contentsproducts or servicing at little or no cost, which would make us less competitive or force us to reduce our selling prices, negatively impacting our margins. We have had transactions where one or more competitors undercut our prices causing us to reduce our price, which negatively impacted our gross margin on that transaction and our overall gross margin. In addition, we have, on occasion, lost sales opportunities due to a competitor undercutting the pricing of our products or maintaining superior brand recognition. These competitors may be able to develop products that are superior to the commercially available components that we incorporate into our products, or may be able to offer products that provide significant price advantages over those we offer. For instance, a competitor could use its resources to develop proprietary motherboards with specifications and performance that are superior in comparison with the platforms that are currently available to the marketplace, which could give that competitor a distinct technological advantage. In addition, if our competitors’ products become more widely accepted than our products, our competitive position will be impaired.The intense competition we face in the sales of our products and services and general economic and business conditions can put pressure on us to change our prices. If our competitors offer deep discounts on certain products or services or develop products that the marketplace considers more valuable, we may need to lower prices or offer other favorable terms in order to compete successfully. Any such changes may reduce margins and could adversely affect operating results.As the enterprise computing industry evolves, we expect to encounter additional competitors, including companies in adjacent technology businesses such as storage and networking infrastructure and management, companies providing technology that is complementary to ours in functionality, such as data center management software, contract manufacturers, and other emerging companies that may announce server product offerings. Moreover, our current and potential competitors, including companies with whom we currently have strategic alliances, may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with other third parties. If this occurs, new competitors or alliances may emerge that could negatively impact our competitive position.We intend to continue to expand our operations and increase our expenditures in an effort to grow our business. If we are not able to manage this growth and expansion, or if our business does not grow as we expect, our operating results may suffer.We intend to continue to grow our business by entering new markets, acquisitions, developing new product and service offerings and pursuing new customers. In connection with this growth, we expect that our annual operating expenses may increase over the next several years to the extent we expand our sales and marketing, research and development, manufacturing and production infrastructure, and our customer service and support efforts. Our failure to timely or efficiently expand operational and financial systems and to implement or maintain effective internal controls and procedures could result in additional operating inefficiencies that could increase our costs and expenses more than we had planned and might cause us to lose the ability to take advantage of market opportunities, enhance existing products, develop new products, satisfy customer requirements, respond to competitive pressures or otherwise execute our business plan. Additionally, if we do increase our operating expenses in anticipation of the growth of our business and this growth does not meet our expectations, our financial results could be negatively impacted.If we acquire or invest in other companies, assets or technologies and we are not able to integrate them with our business, or we do not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for any of these existing or future transactions, our financial performance may be impaired.If appropriate opportunities present themselves, as they have in the past, we may consider acquiring or making investments in companies, assets or technologies that we believe are strategic. We only have limited experience in doing so, and for any such company, asset or technology which we successfully acquire or invest in, we will be exposed to a number of risks, including:•we may find that the acquired company, asset or technology does not further our business strategy, that we overpaid for the company, asset or technology or that the economic conditions underlying our acquisition decision have changed;•we may have difficulty integrating the assets, technologies, operations or personnel of an acquired company, or retaining the key personnel of the acquired company;•our ongoing business and management’s attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and the complexity of managing geographically or culturally diverse enterprises;•we may encounter difficulty entering and competing in new product or geographic markets or increased competition, including price competition or intellectual property litigation; and•we may experience significant problems or liabilities associated with product quality, technology and legal contingencies relating to the acquired business or technology, such as intellectual property or employment matters.16Table of ContentsFor example, in connection with our acquisition of Terrascale Technologies, Inc., we expended a great deal of effort and resources, but were unable to generate revenue, increase gross profit or contribute positive cash flow into our business, sufficient to realize our investment, causing us to exit this product line. This resulted in an impairment charge of $17.5 million during the year ended January 3, 2009. We have presented the results of this product line as discontinued operations in our consolidated financial statements.If we were to proceed with one or more significant acquisitions or investments in which the consideration included cash, we could be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash. To the extent we issue shares of capital stock or other rights to purchase capital stock, including options and warrants, existing stockholders might be diluted and earnings per share might decrease. In addition, acquisitions and investments may result in the incurrence of debt, large one-time write-offs, such as acquired in-process research and development costs and restructuring charges.We rely on sales to U.S. government entities. A loss of contracts, a failure to obtain new contracts or a reduction of sales under existing contracts with the U.S. government could adversely affect our operating performance.We expect to derive a significant portion of our revenue directly from U.S. government entities, research institutions funded by the U.S. government and third-parties that sell directly to the U.S. government. In addition, many of our scientific and research customers depend on U.S. government funding for their information technology budgets. As a result, a significant portion of our revenue depends on sales to or funded by the U.S. government such that a loss of a U.S. government contract or the failure to obtain new contracts could adversely affect our operating performance. Sales to or funded by the U.S. government present risks in addition to those involved in sales to commercial customers, including potential disruptions and delays due to changes in appropriation and spending patterns. Our U.S. government business is also highly sensitive to changes in the U.S. government’s national and international priorities and budgeting. Changes in the continuing war on terrorism may affect funding for our programs or result in changes in government programs or spending priorities that may harm our business. In addition, the U.S. government can typically terminate or modify its contracts with us at any time for its convenience. Our U.S. government business is also subject to specific procurement regulations and a variety of other requirements. Failure to comply with these or other applicable regulations and requirements could lead to suspension or debarment from U.S. government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. Any disruption or limitation in our ability to do business with the U.S. government or entities funded by the U.S. government would materially and adversely affect our revenue and operating results.In addition, we have not historically required government security clearances which are necessary in some cases to do business with the U.S. government, and have limited experience in obtaining or maintaining these security clearances for us or our employees. Failure to retain necessary security clearances could negatively impact our business with the U.S. Government.We have extensive international operations, which subject us to additional business risks.A significant portion of our sales occur and are expected to occur in international jurisdictions, including countries outside of Europe, and Asia where we have limited operating experience. International operations involve inherent risks that we may not be able to control, and risks of which we may not be aware, including:•supporting multiple languages;•recruiting sales and technical support personnel internationally with the skills to design, manufacture, sell and support our products;•complying with governmental regulation of encryption technology and regulation of imports and exports, including obtaining required import or export approval for our products;•increased complexity and costs of managing international operations;•increased exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations;•commercial laws and business practices that favor local competition;•multiple, potentially conflicting, and changing governmental laws, regulations and practices, including differing export, import, tax, labor, anti-bribery and employment laws, including potential changes to the tax laws in Japan;•longer sales cycles and manufacturing lead times;•difficulties in collecting accounts receivable;•difficulties associated with repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner;•reduced or limited protection of intellectual property rights;•more complicated logistics and distribution arrangements; and•political and economic instability, as well as foreign currency exchange risk.International political instability may halt or hinder our ability to do business and may increase our costs. Various events, including the occurrence or threat of terrorist attacks, increased national security measures in the United States and other countries, and military action and armed conflicts, may suddenly increase international tensions. In addition, other international crises or concerns about these crises, such as potential pandemics or natural disasters, may have an adverse effect on our operations as well as the world economy generally and could adversely affect our business operations or the operations of our 17Table of Contentscontract manufacturers and suppliers. Additionally, the ongoing international credit crisis could adversely affect our operations, including our international operations in particular.We may experience foreign currency gains and losses.We conduct a significant number of transactions in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. Changes in the value of major foreign currencies, particularly the Euro, British Pound, and Japanese Yen relative to the U.S. Dollar can significantly affect revenues and our operating results. Our revenues and operating results are adversely affected when the dollar strengthens relative to other currencies and are positively affected when the dollar weakens. For example, our revenues and operating results in fiscal year 2010 were unfavorably affected by the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar relative to other major foreign currencies.For the year ended June 24, 2011, our international revenue was $240.2 million and as of June 24, 2011, the balance in our foreign currency cash accounts is $70.2 million. At June 24, 2011, we had no foreign currency forward contracts or option contracts. As a result, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products more expensive and, thus, not competitively priced in foreign markets. Additionally, a decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could increase our operating costs in foreign locations. In the future, a larger portion of our international revenue may be denominated in foreign currencies, which will subject us to additional risks associated with fluctuations in those foreign currencies. In addition, we may be unable to successfully hedge against any such fluctuations.Our international sales may require export licenses and expose us to additional risks.Our sales to customers outside the United States are subject to U.S. export regulations. Under these regulations, sales of many of our high-end products require clearance and export licenses from the U.S. Department of Commerce. Our international sales would be adversely affected if these regulations were tightened, or if they are not modified over time to reflect the increasing performance of our products. Delay or denial in the granting of any required licenses could make it more difficult to make sales to non-U.S. customers. In addition, we could be subject to regulations, fines and penalties for violations of import and export regulations if we were found in violation of these regulations. End-users could circumvent end-user documentation requirements that are intended to aid in our compliance with export regulations, potentially causing us to violate these regulations. These violations could result in penalties, including prohibitions on us from exporting our products to one or more countries, and could materially harm our business, including our sales to the U.S. government.Our sales cycle requires us to expend a significant amount of resources, and could have an adverse effect on the amount, timing and predictability of future revenue.The sales cycle of our products, beginning from our first customer contact to closing of the sale, often ranges from three to six months. We may expend significant resources during the sales cycle and ultimately fail to close the sale. The success of our product sales process is subject to factors, over which we have little or no control, including:•the timing of our customers’ budget cycles and approval processes;•our customers’ existing use of, or willingness to adopt, open standard server products, or to replace their existing servers or expand their processing capacity with our products;•the announcement or introduction of competing products; and•established relationships between our competitors and our potential customers.We expend substantial time, effort and money educating our current and prospective customers as to the value of our products. Even if we are successful in persuading lower-level decision makers within our customers’ organizations of the benefits of our products, senior management might nonetheless elect not to buy our products after months of sales efforts by our employees or resellers. If we are unsuccessful in closing sales, after expending significant resources, our revenue and operating expenses will be adversely affected.We rely primarily on our direct sales force to generate revenue, and may be unable to hire additional qualified sales personnel in a timely manner or retain our existing sales representatives.To date, we have relied primarily on our direct sales force to sell our products in the United States. Because we are looking to expand our customer base and grow our sales to existing customers, we will need to continue to hire qualified sales personnel, both in the United States and abroad, if we are to achieve our business objectives. The competition for qualified sales personnel in our industry is very intense. If we are unable to hire, train, deploy and manage qualified sales personnel in a timely manner, our ability to grow our business will be impaired. For example, in the past it has taken us up to six months to hire a qualified sales executive and it may take a newly-hired sales executive up to nine months after hiring to become productive, resulting in aggregate lag time between the commencement of the search to productivity, in excess of one year. In addition, if we are unable to retain our existing sales personnel, or if our sales personal are ineffective, our ability to maintain or grow our revenue will be adversely affected. In addition, a large percentage of our revenue has been historically generated from 18Table of Contentsa small number of customers. If we are unable to retain the sales personnel who are responsible for those customer accounts, our business could be negatively impacted.We are continuing to develop and execute upon a channel strategy to generate additional sales and revenue, and the failure to successfully expand channel sales might affect our ability to sustain revenue growth and may harm our business and operations.An increasing portion of our sales strategy is to develop our sales efforts through the use of resellers and other third parties to sell our systems. We may not be successful in building or expanding relationships with these third parties. Further, even if we do develop and expand these relationships, they may conflict with our direct sales efforts in some territories. Ineffective marketing of our products by our resellers or disruptions in our distribution channels could lead to decreased sales or slower than expected growth in revenue and might harm our business and operations.We have been substantially dependent on a concentrated number of customers that purchase in large quantities. If we are unable to maintain or replace our relationships with concentrated customers and/or diversify our customer base, our revenue may fluctuate and our growth may be limited.Historically, a significant portion of our revenue has come from a limited number of customers. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to sustain our revenue levels from this type of customer. For the year ended June 24, 2011, our top five customers accounted for approximately 39% of our total revenues, with Amazon accounting for 12% of our total revenues. We expect a limited number of customers to continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. This customer concentration increases the risk of quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and operating results. The loss or reduction of business from one or a combination of our significant customers could materially adversely affect our revenues, financial condition and results of operations.Our customers require a high degree of reliability in our products and services, and if we cannot meet their expectations our relationships with our customers could be damaged and demand for our products and services will decline.Because our customers rely on our products and services for their enterprise or mission critical applications, any failure to provide high quality products and reliable services, whether caused by our own failure or failures by our suppliers or contract manufacturers, could damage our reputation and reduce demand for our products and services. Some of our products, such as our ICE cube line, are particularly complex and carry a higher per unit price. A failure of products in our ICE cube line would therefore potentially be more costly to us, with the risk and potential cost to us increasing proportionately with the number of products we sell in this line. Most of our customers use our systems for applications that are critical to their organization; as a result system reliability is critical to the success of our products. In addition, delays in our ability to fill product orders as a result of quality control issues, such as an increase in failure rates or the rate of product returns, may negatively impact our relationships with our customers and harm our revenue and growth.Our business depends on decisions by potential customers to adopt our modular, open standard-based products and to replace their legacy server systems with our products, and they may be reluctant to do so, which would limit our growth.Our business depends on companies moving away from large proprietary RISC/UNIX servers to standardized servers that utilize commercially available x86 processor architectures and can deploy a variety of operating systems, including Linux and Microsoft Windows. Excluding sales to Microsoft Corporation, we believe that a majority of the server systems that we sold in 2011, 2010, and 2009 ran on the Linux® operating system. Products based on the Linux operating system and sold by other software vendors have been the subject of intellectual property infringement litigation.Legal actions taken by The SCO Group, Inc. (“SCO”) against several companies, including in particular IBM in 2003 and Novell, Inc. (“Novell”) in 2004, alleging intellectual property infringement and disputing the ownership of core UNIX® copyrights in code that allegedly is used in Linux are ongoing. The litigation involving SCO’s claim against IBM that Linux is an unauthorized derivative work of the UNIX operating system has been stayed due to SCO’s bankruptcy filing. On March 30, 2010 in the Novell litigation, a jury returned a verdict in favor of Novell finding that Novell owns the UNIX copyrights. SCO has appealed the verdict to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit. If SCO’s appeal is ultimately successful, SCO could obtain a ruling that users or distributors of Linux must pay royalties to SCO or others, which could impede broader Linux adoption and could materially harm our ability to sell our products based on the Linux operating system.In addition, several companies, including Microsoft Corporation and Bedrock Computing Technologies, LLC, have asserted patents which purportedly may be infringed by various versions and portions of Linux. Microsoft has publicly claimed that Linux infringes 235 or more of Microsoft’s patents and has entered into transactions with Novell, Inc. and other Linux distributors under which the parties reportedly agree, among other things, not to sue each other’s customers for potential patent infringements related to Linux. In 2009, Bedrock Computing Technologies filed litigation against ten defendants, including 19Table of ContentsGoogle, claiming that certain methods used in certain versions of Linux infringed one of Bedrock's patents. On April 15, 2011, a jury found that Google's use of Linux did infringe Bedrock's patent and ordered Google to pay a $5 million fine for past damages, although that verdict was later vacated and the case against Google was closed by stipulation of the parties. The Bedrock case is continuing against other defendants. It is possible that a party could prove a claim for proprietary rights in the Linux operating system or other programs developed and distributed under the GNU General Public License or other open source software licenses. In addition, the GNU General Public License has itself been, and may be in the future, a subject of litigation, and it is possible that a court could hold these licenses to be unenforceable in that litigation. Any ruling by a court that the Linux operating system or significant portions of it may not be copied, modified or distributed subject only to the minimal restrictions contained in these licenses, that users or distributors of Linux must pay royalties to Microsoft or others or that these licenses are not enforceable could also impede broader Linux adoption and materially harm our ability to sell our products based on the Linux operating system. Further, because potential customers have often invested significant capital and other resources in existing systems, many of which run mission-critical applications, customers may be hesitant to make dramatic changes to their data center systems. The failure of our customers and potential customers to replace their legacy server systems and adopt open standard-based modular technologies could have a material adverse impact on our ability to maintain or generate additional revenue.Our products have incorporated or have been dependent upon, open standards, commoditized components and materials that we obtain in spot markets, and, as a result, our cost structure and our ability to respond in a timely manner to customer demand are sensitive to volatility of the market prices for these components and materials.A significant portion of our cost of revenue is directly related to the pricing of commoditized materials and components utilized in the manufacture of our products, such as memory, hard drives, central processing units (“CPUs”), or power supplies. As part of our procurement model, we generally do not enter into long-term supply contracts for these materials and components, but instead, purchase these materials and components in a competitive bid purchase order environment with suppliers or on the open market at spot prices. As a result, our cost structure is affected by the availability and price volatility in the marketplace for these components and materials, including new versions of hard drives and CPUs that are introduced by our suppliers. This volatility makes it difficult to predict expense levels and operating results and may cause them to fluctuate significantly. Further, if we are successful in growing our business, we may not be able to continue to procure components solely on the spot market, which would require us to enter into contracts with component suppliers to obtain these components.In addition, because our procurement model involves our ability to maintain low inventory and to acquire materials and components as needed, and because we do not enter into long-term supply contracts for these materials and components, our ability to effectively and efficiently respond to customer orders may be constrained by the then-current availability or the terms and pricing of these materials and components. Our industry has experienced component shortages and delivery delays in the past, and in the future we may experience shortages or delays of critical components as a result of strong demand in the industry or other factors. For example, occasionally we may experience a shortage of, or a delay in receiving, certain components as a result of strong demand, capacity constraints, supplier financial weaknesses, inability of suppliers to borrow funds in the credit markets, disputes with suppliers (some of whom are also customers), disruptions in the operations of component suppliers, other problems experienced by suppliers or problems faced during the transition to new suppliers.If shortages or delays occur, the price of these components may increase, we may be exposed to quality issues or the components may not be available at all. We may therefore not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build products or provide services in a timely manner in the quantities or according to the specifications needed. Accordingly, our revenue and gross margin could suffer as we could lose time-sensitive sales, incur additional freight costs or be unable to pass on price increases to our customers. If we cannot adequately address supply issues, we might have to reengineer some products or service offerings, resulting in further costs and delays.In order to secure components for the provision of products or services, at times we may enter into non-cancelable commitments with vendors. In addition, we may purchase components strategically in advance of demand to take advantage of favorable pricing or to address concerns about the availability of future components. If we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, a temporary oversupply could result in excess or obsolete components, which could adversely affect our gross margin. This could increase our costs and decrease our gross margin. Further, we compete in an industry that is characterized by rapid technological advances in hardware with frequent introduction of new products. New product introductions provide risks in predicting customer demand for the future products as well as the transition from existing products. If we do not make an effective transition from existing products to future products, an oversupply could result in excess components. For example, DRAM can represent a significant portion of our cost of revenue, and both the price and availability of various kinds of DRAM are subject to substantial volatility in the spot market. Additionally, if any of our suppliers of CPUs, such as Intel or AMD, were to increase the costs to us for components we use, we would either pass these price increases on to our customers, which could cause us to lose business from these customers, or we would need to absorb these price increases, which would cause our margins to decrease, either of which could adversely affect our business and financial results.20Table of ContentsIf we fail to maintain or expand our relationships with our suppliers, in some cases single-source suppliers, we may not have adequate access to new or key technology necessary for our products, and, as a result, our ability to deliver leading-edge products may be impaired.In addition to the technologies we develop, our suppliers develop product innovations at our direction that are requested by our customers. In many cases, we retain the ownership of the intellectual property developed by these suppliers. Further, we rely heavily on our component suppliers, such as Intel and AMD, to provide us with leading-edge components on time and in accordance with a product roadmap. If we are not able to maintain or expand our relationships with our suppliers or continue to leverage their research and development capabilities to develop new technologies desired by our customers, our ability to deliver leading-edge products in a timely manner may be impaired and we could be required to incur additional research and development expenses.Unforeseen environmental costs could impact our future net earnings.We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations concerning environmental protection, including laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, the content of our products and the recycling, treatment and disposal of our products. In particular, we face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the chemical and materials composition of our products, their safe use, the energy consumption associated with those products, and climate change laws and regulations. We could incur substantial costs, our products could be restricted from entering certain jurisdictions, and we could face other sanctions, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws or if our products become non-compliant with environmental laws. Our potential exposure includes fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage, personal injury claims and clean up costs. Further, liability under some environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can be imposed retroactively, on a joint and several basis, and without any finding of noncompliance or fault. The amount and timing of costs under environmental laws are difficult to predict and such costs could have a negative effect on our profitability. If we are found to be in violation of any environmental laws, costs associated with such liability may have an adverse affect on our financial results. We have historically relied on contract manufacturers to manufacture our products, and our failure to successfully manage our relationships with these contract manufacturers could impair our ability to deliver our systems in a manner consistent with required volumes or delivery schedules, which could damage our relationships with our customers and decrease our revenue.We have historically relied on a very small number of contract manufacturers to assemble and test our products. None of these third-party contract manufacturers are obligated to perform services or supply products to us for any specific period, or in any specific quantities, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. For example, we design custom silicon chips for application specific integrated circuits (ASIC), but rely on a third party to manufacture the ASICs for us. None of our contract manufacturers has provided contractual assurances to us that adequate capacity will be available to us to meet future demand for our products. If our contract manufacturers are not able to maintain our high standards of quality, are not able to increase capacity as needed, or are forced to shut down a factory, our ability to deliver quality products to our customers on a timely basis may decline, which would damage our relationships with customers, decrease our revenue and negatively impact our growth.If our cost control measures are not successful, we may become less competitive.A variety of factors could prevent us from achieving our goal of better aligning our product and service offerings and cost structure with customer needs in the current business environment. We are currently focused on reducing and maintaining our operating expenses, total costs in procurement, product design, transformation, and simplifying our structure. For example, we may experience delays in the anticipated timing of activities related to our cost savings plans and higher than expected or unanticipated costs to implement the plans. As a result, we may not achieve our expected cost savings in the time anticipated, or at all. In such case, our results of operations and profitability may be negatively impacted, making us less competitive and potentially causing us to lose industry unit share.We may fail to achieve our financial forecasts.Our revenues are difficult to forecast and our quarterly and annual operating results can fluctuate substantially. We use a “pipeline” system, a common industry practice, to forecast sales and trends in our business. Our sales personnel monitor the status of all proposals and estimate when a customer will make a purchase decision and the dollar amount of the sale. These estimates are aggregated periodically to generate a sales pipeline. Our pipeline estimates can prove to be unreliable both in a particular quarter and over a longer period of time, in part because the “conversion rate” or “closure rate” of the pipeline into contracts can be very difficult to estimate. A contraction in the conversion rate, or in the pipeline itself, could cause us to plan or budget incorrectly and adversely affect our business or results of operations.21Table of ContentsIn particular, a slowdown in IT spending or economic conditions generally can unexpectedly reduce the conversion rate in particular periods as purchasing decisions are delayed, reduced in amount or canceled. The conversion rate can also be affected by the tendency of some of our customers to wait until the end of a fiscal period in the hope of obtaining more favorable terms, which can also impede our ability to negotiate and execute these contracts in a timely manner. In addition, for newly acquired companies, we have limited ability to predict how their pipelines will convert into sales or revenues for one or two quarters following the acquisition and their conversion rate post-acquisition may be quite different from their historical conversion rate.If we are unable to retain and attract adequate qualified personnel, including key executive, managerial, technical, finance, marketing and sales personnel, we may not be able to execute on our business strategy.Our future success depends in large part upon the continued service and enhancement of our executive, managerial, technical, finance, marketing and sales employees. Changes in management can be disruptive within a company, which could negatively affect our operations, our culture and our strategic direction. Our employees may terminate their employment with us at any time. Our U.S. employees are “at will,” while outside of the U.S., notice or severance may be required if we wish to terminate an employee. The failure of our management team to seamlessly manage employee transitions, or the loss of services of any of these executives or of one or more other members of our executive management or sales team or other key employees could seriously harm our business. Competition for qualified executives is intense and if we are unable to continue expanding our management team, or successfully integrate new additions to our management team in a manner that enables us to scale our business and operations effectively, our ability to operate effectively and efficiently could be limited or negatively impacted.Additionally, to help attract, retain, and motivate qualified employees, we use share-based incentive awards such as employee stock options and non-vested share units (restricted stock units). If the value of such stock awards does not appreciate as measured by the performance of the price of our common stock, or if our share-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate employees could be weakened, which could harm our results of operations.We make estimates and assumptions in connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, and any changes to those estimates and assumptions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.In connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, we use certain estimates and assumptions based on historical experience and other factors. Our most critical accounting estimates are described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. While we believe that these estimates and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances, they are subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. Should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, and we may be required to restate our financial results for prior periods which could cause our stock price to decline.If we are unable to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, the accuracy and timeliness of our financial reporting may be adversely affected.Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. As a publicly traded company we must maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, which can be difficult to do. A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that:•pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;•provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and•provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the Company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.Even after corrective actions are implemented, the effectiveness of our controls and procedures may be limited by a variety of risks including:22Table of Contents•faulty human judgment and simple errors, omissions or mistakes;•collusion of two or more people;•inappropriate management override of procedures; and•the risk that enhanced controls and procedures may still not be adequate to assure timely and reliable financial informationA failure to have effective internal controls and procedures for financial reporting in place could result in a restatement of our financial statements, as it did in our Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 29, 2008, or impact our ability to accurately report financial information on a timely basis, which could adversely affect our stock price.Maintaining and improving our financial controls, particularly in light of the requirements of being a public company, may strain our resources and divert management’s attention.We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (the “Exchange Act”) and the NASDAQ Stock Market Rules. The requirements of these rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and may also place undue strain on our personnel, systems and resources.The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. This can be difficult to do. For example, when we acquired substantially all the assets of Legacy SGI, we went through the process of integrating and harmonizing Legacy SGI financial reporting and information technology systems, including internal control over financial reporting, with our own. As a result of this and similar activities, management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to meet the requirements needed to prevent material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, if we are unable to continue to meet these requirements, we may not be able to remain listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market.Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability.We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our tax liabilities are affected by the amounts we charge for inventory, services, funding and other items in intercompany transactions. We are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. Tax authorities may disagree with our intercompany charges, cross-jurisdictional transfer pricing or other matters and assess additional taxes. For example, we have been assessed tax and interest by the Canada Revenue Agency (CRA) in connection with excess research credits claimed by our Canadian subsidiaries in prior periods. The assessment has not been paid because the CRA has not yet accepted our claim that the assessment should be reduced due to overstatement of taxable income of our Canadian subsidiaries during these periods. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. However, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of audits could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax expense and therefore could have a material impact on our tax provision, net income and cash flows.In addition, our effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes to our operating structure, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws and the discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation process.Unsuccessful deployment of new transaction processing applications and other systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations and any such disruption could reduce our expected revenue, increase our expenses, and damage our reputation.Portions of our IT infrastructure may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration and implementation of new transaction processing applications, including accounting, manufacturing and sales system. We may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time consuming, disruptive and resource-intensive to remediate. Such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and negatively impact our business or interrupt other processes. Delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers resulting from these disruptions have adversely affected us in the past, and in the future could adversely affect our financial results, public disclosures and reputation.We maintain confidential and proprietary information on our computer networks and employ security measures designed to protect this information from unauthorized access. If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained, we may lose proprietary data and may suffer economic losses.We maintain confidential information on our computer networks, including information and data that are proprietary to our customers and third parties, as well as to our company. Although we have designed and employed security measures to 23Table of Contentsprotect this information from unauthorized access, our security measures may be breached as a result of third-party action, including computer hackers, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and result in someone obtaining unauthorized access to our customers' data or our data, including our intellectual property and other confidential business information. Because the techniques employed by hackers to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Any security breach could result in disclosure of our trade secrets or disclosure of confidential customer, supplier or employee data. If this should happen, we could be exposed to potentially significant legal liability, harm to our reputation and other harm to our business.Business disruptions could affect our operating results.A significant portion of our manufacturing, research and development activities and certain other critical business operations is concentrated in a few geographic areas. We are a highly automated business and a disruption or failure of our systems could cause delays in completing sales and providing services. A major earthquake, fire or other catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or information technology systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our future operating results could be materially and adversely affected. For example, our operations in Japan may be negatively affected by earthquakes and other natural disasters, as well as ongoing power supply disruptions following the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami.Further, we maintain a program of insurance coverage for various types of property, casualty, and other risks. We place our insurance coverage with various carriers in numerous jurisdictions. However, there is a risk that one or more of our insurance providers may be unable to pay a claim. The types and amounts of insurance that we obtain vary from time to time and from location to location, depending on availability, cost, and our decisions with respect to risk retention. The policies are subject to deductibles and exclusions that result in our retention of a level of risk on a self-insurance basis. Losses not covered by insurance may be substantial and may increase our expenses, which could harm our results of operations and financial condition. Unstable market and economic conditions may have serious adverse consequences on our business.Our general business strategy may be adversely affected by the current economic downturn and volatile business environment and continued unpredictable and unstable market conditions. If the current equity and credit markets deteriorate further, or do not continue to improve, it may make any necessary debt or equity financing more difficult, more costly, and more dilutive. We believe we are well positioned with significant capital resources to meet our current working capital and capital expenditure requirements. However, a further prolonged or profound economic downturn may result in adverse changes to demand for our products, or our customers’ ability to pay for our products, which would harm our operating results. There is also a risk that one or more of our current service providers, manufacturers and other partners may not survive these difficult economic times, which would directly affect our ability to attain our operating goals on schedule and on budget. Failure to secure any necessary financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and stock price and could require us to change our business plans.If we are unable to protect our intellectual property adequately, we may not be able to compete effectively.Our intellectual property is critical to our success and our ability to compete. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, our competitors might gain access to our technology. Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property. In addition, we license our technology and intellectual property to third parties, including in some cases, our competitors, which could under some circumstances make our patent rights more difficult to enforce. Third parties could also obtain licenses to some of our intellectual property as a consequence of a merger or acquisition. Also, our participation in standard setting organizations or industry initiatives may require us to license our patents to other companies that adopt certain standards or specifications. As a result of such licensing, our patents might not be enforceable against others who might otherwise be infringing those patents and the value of our intellectual property may be impaired.However, litigation is inherently uncertain, and there is no assurance that any litigation we initiate will have a successful outcome. Monitoring unauthorized use of our technology is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as the laws of the United States. Any claims or litigation that we have initiated or that we may initiate in the future to protect our proprietary technology could be time consuming and expensive and divert the attention of our technical and management resources whether or not the claims or litigation are decided in our favor. Enforcing our rights could subject us to claims that the intellectual property right is invalid, is otherwise not enforceable, or is licensed to the party against whom we are asserting a claim. Also, assertion of our intellectual property rights could result in the other party seeking to assert alleged intellectual property rights of its own or assert other claims against us, which could harm our business.24Table of ContentsWe currently have numerous patents issued and a number of patent applications pending in the United States and other countries. These patents may be limited in value in asserting our intellectual property rights against more established companies in the computer technology sector that have sizable patent portfolios and greater capital resources. In addition, patents may not be issued from these patent applications, and even if patents are issued, they may not benefit us or give us adequate protection from competing products. For example, issued patents might be circumvented or challenged, and could be declared invalid or unenforceable. Moreover, if other companies develop unpatented proprietary technology similar to ours or competing technologies, our competitive position will be weakened.If we are found to have violated the intellectual property rights of others, we could be required to indemnify our customers, resellers or suppliers, redesign our products, pay significant royalties and enter into license agreements with third parties.Our industry is characterized by a large number of patents, copyrights, trade secrets and trademarks and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violation of intellectual property rights. As we continue our business, expand our product lines and our product functionality, and expand into new jurisdictions around the world, third parties may assert that our technology or products violate their intellectual property rights. Because of technological changes and the extent of issued patents in our industry, it is possible certain components of our products and business methods may unknowingly infringe existing patents of others. Any claim, regardless of its merits, could be expensive and time consuming to defend against. It would also divert the attention of our technical and management resources. Successful intellectual property claims against us could result in significant financial liability, impair our ability to compete effectively, or prevent us from operating our business or portions of our business. In addition, resolution of claims may require us to redesign our technology, to obtain licenses to use intellectual property belonging to third parties, which we may not be able to obtain on reasonable terms, to cease using the technology covered by those rights, and to indemnify our customers, resellers or suppliers. Any of these events could result in unexpected expenses, negatively affect our competitive position and materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our use of open source and third-party software could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products.We incorporate open source software into our products. Open source software is made available to us and to the public by its authors or other third parties under licenses that impose certain obligations on licensees in the event those licensees re-distribute or make derivative works of the open source software. The terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by United States or other courts, and these licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. In this event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our products, to make generally available, in source code form, proprietary code that links to certain open source modules, to re-engineer our products, or to discontinue the sale of our products if re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely basis, any of which might harm our business, operating results and financial condition.Adverse litigation results could affect our business.We are subject to various legal proceedings. Litigation can be lengthy, expensive and disruptive to our operations, and results cannot be predicted with certainty. An adverse decision could result in monetary damages or injunctive relief that could affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Additional information regarding certain of the lawsuits we are involved in is discussed under "Legal Proceedings" in Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Risks Related to Owning Our StockOur stock price in the past has been volatile, and may continue to be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance, and investors may not be able to resell shares at or above the price at which they purchased the shares.Our stock has been publicly traded for a relatively short period of time, having first begun trading in June 2005. During that time our stock price has fluctuated significantly, from a high of approximately $56.00 per share to a low of approximately $3.42 per share. At times the stock price has changed very quickly. During the year ended June 24, 2011, our stock price has fluctuated from a high of approximately $22.95 to a low of approximately $5.84. If investors purchase shares of our common stock, they may not be able to resell those shares at or above the price at which they purchase them. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, and which may not relate to our performance or results of operations, including:•price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market;•purchases of shares of our common stock pursuant to our share repurchase program;•the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in these projections or our failure to meet these projections;•actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results;25Table of Contents•changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other technology companies generally, or those that sell enterprise computing products in particular;•changes in financial estimates by any securities analysts who follow our company, our failure to meet these estimates or failure of those analysts to initiate or maintain coverage of our stock;•ratings downgrades by any securities analysts who follow our company;•the public’s response to our press releases or other public announcements, including our filings with the SEC;•announcements by us or our competitors of significant technical innovations, customer wins or losses, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments;•introduction of technologies or product enhancements that reduce the need for our products;•market conditions or trends in our industry or the economy as a whole;•the loss of one or more key customers;•the loss of key personnel;•the development and sustainability of an active trading market for our common stock;•lawsuits threatened or filed against us;•future sales of our common stock by our officers, directors and significant stockholders; and•other events or factors, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to these events.In addition, the stock markets, and in particular the NASDAQ Stock Market, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many technology companies. Stock prices of many technology companies have fluctuated in a manner unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. In the past, stockholders have instituted securities class action litigation following periods of market volatility. We could become involved in additional securities litigation in the future, which could have substantial costs and divert resources and the attention of management from our business. For additional information regarding our securities litigation, please see “Legal Proceedings” in Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Due to these factors, sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. These sales, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock.Some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may deter third parties from acquiring us.Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our board of directors, including the following:•limitations on persons authorized to call a special meeting of stockholders;•our stockholders may take action only at a meeting of stockholders and not by written consent;•our certificate of incorporation authorizes undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval; and•advance notice procedures required for stockholders to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring matters before an annual meeting of stockholders.These anti-takeover defenses could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors of their choosing and cause us to take other corporate actions they desire.We do not expect to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future.We do not anticipate that we will pay any cash dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends in the foreseeable future should not purchase our common stock.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNot applicable.