ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to a variety of risks, including the risks described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or not described below may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed and we may not be able to achieve our goals. This Annual Report on Form 10-K also includes statements reflecting assumptions, expectations, projections, intentions, or beliefs about future events that are intended as “forward-looking statements” under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1993 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and should be read in conjunction with the section entitled “Forward-Looking Statements.” We derive a significant portion of our revenues from a small group of customers. The loss of one or more of these customers could negatively impact our business and results of operations. Our customer base is highly concentrated. Our top ten customers accounted for approximately 56.1%, 55.6% and 47.4% of our revenues for fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We have one customer that represented greater than 10.0% of revenues for fiscal 2006, two customers for fiscal 2005 and one such customer for fiscal 2004. Sales to Duke Energy accounted for approximately 14.7% of our total revenues for fiscal 2006. Sales to Duke Energy and Florida Power & Light each accounted for approximately 12.0% of our total revenues for fiscal 2005. Duke Energy accounted for approximately 19.5% of our revenues for fiscal 2004 and approximately 12.6% of our total revenues for fiscal 2004, on a pro forma basis after giving effect to the acquisition of Red Simpson. We believe that we will continue to rely on a relatively small group of customers, including Duke Energy and Florida Power & Light, for a substantial portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. We may not be able to maintain our relationships with our significant customers. The loss of, or reduction of our sales to, any of our major customers could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our customers often have no obligation to assign work to us, and many of our arrangements may be terminated on short notice. As a result, we are at risk of losing significant business on short notice. This risk may be accentuated for customers we obtained in the Red Simpson acquisition. Most of our customers assign work to us under master service arrangements. Under these arrangements, our customers generally have no obligation to assign work to us and do not guarantee service volumes. Most of our customer arrangements, including our master service arrangements, may be terminated by our customers on short notice. In addition, many of our customer arrangements, including our master service arrangements, are open to competitive bidding at the expiration of their terms. As a result, we may be displaced on these arrangements by competitors from time to time. Our business and results of 12 Table of Contents operations could be materially and adversely affected if our customers do not assign work to us or if they cancel a number of significant arrangements and we cannot replace them with similar work. We obtained some of our customers in conjunction with the Red Simpson acquisition on July 1, 2004. We had an existing relationship with some of Red Simpson’s customers, but a number of the relationships were new. Because of our relatively brief relationship with these customers, we could be more exposed than normal to losing a portion or all of their business to our competitors. Our storm restoration services are highly volatile and unpredictable, which could result in substantial variations in, and uncertainties regarding, the levels of our financial results from period to period. As shown by the following table, revenues derived from our storm restoration services are highly volatile and uncertain due to the unpredictable nature of weather-related events. Storm Revenue Data Percentage Storm Total of Total Year Revenues Revenues Revenues (In millions) (In millions) 2000 $ 21.6 $ 263.7 8.2 % 2001 25.3 287.3 8.8 % 2002 7.0 273.2 2.6 % 2003 46.6 297.5 15.7 % 2004 43.0 356.7 12.1 % 2005 149.2 679.2 22.0 % 2006 185.3 727.5 25.5 % During fiscal 2006 and 2005, we experienced the largest storm restoration events of our history as several significant hurricanes impacted the Gulf Coast and Florida. Our storm restoration revenues for fiscal 2006 and 2005 are not indicative of the revenues that we typically generate in any period or can be expected to generate in any future period. Our historical results of operations have varied between periods due to the volatility of our storm restoration revenues. The levels of our future revenues and net income may be subject to significant variations and uncertainties from period to period due to the volatility of our storm restoration revenues. In addition, our storm restoration revenues are offset in part by declines in our core powerline services because we staff storm restoration mobilizations in large part by diverting resources from our powerline services. Our business is subject to numerous hazards that could subject us to substantial monetary and other liabilities. If accidents occur, they could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business is subject to numerous hazards, including electrocutions, fires, natural gas explosions, mechanical failures, weather-related incidents, transportation accidents and damage to equipment we work on. These hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and other consequential damages and could lead to suspension of operations, large damage claims and, in extreme cases, criminal liability. Our safety record is an important consideration for our customers. If serious accidents or fatalities occur, we may be ineligible to bid on certain work, and existing service arrangements could be terminated. In addition, if our safety record were to deteriorate, our ability to bid on certain work could be adversely impacted. Further, regulatory changes implemented by OSHA could impose additional costs on us. Adverse experience with hazards and claims could have a negative effect on our reputation with our existing or potential new customers and our prospects for future work. Our current insurance coverage may not be adequate, and we may not be able to obtain insurance at acceptable rates, or at all. We maintain various insurance policies, including general liability, automotive liability and workers’ compensation. We are partially self-insured under all of our policies, and our insurance does not cover all types or amounts of liabilities. Our insurance policies are subject to substantial deductibles of $1.0 million per occurrence. We are not required to, and do not, specifically set aside funds for our self-insurance programs. At any given time, we are subject to multiple workers’ compensation and personal injury claims. We maintain substantial 13 Table of Contents loss accruals for workers’ compensation claims, and our workers’ compensation and insurance costs have been rising for several years notwithstanding our emphasis on safety. Our insurance policies may not be adequate to protect us from liabilities that we incur in our business. In addition, due to a variety of factors such as increases in claims and projected significant increases in medical costs and wages, insurance carriers may be unwilling to provide the current levels of coverage without a significant increase in collateral requirements to cover our deductible obligations. Furthermore, our insurance premiums may increase in the future and we may not be able to obtain similar levels of insurance on reasonable terms, or at all. Any such inadequacy of, or inability to obtain, insurance coverage at acceptable rates, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Record high fuel costs could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Fuel costs, which are currently at historically high levels, constitute a portion of our operating expense. Fuel prices and supplies are influenced by a variety of international, political and economic circumstances. In addition, weather and other unpredictable events may significantly affect fuel prices and supplies. These or other factors could result in higher fuel prices which, in turn, would increase our costs of doing business and lower our gross profit. Demand for some of our services is cyclical and vulnerable to industry and economic downturns, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. The demand for infrastructure services has been, and will likely continue to be, cyclical in nature and vulnerable to general downturns in the U.S. economy. If the general level of economic activity deteriorates, our customers may delay or cancel expansions, upgrades, maintenance and repairs to their systems. A number of other factors, including the financial condition of the industry, could adversely affect our customers and their ability or willingness to fund capital expenditures in the future. We are also dependent on the amount of work that our customers outsource. During downturns in the economy, our customers may determine to outsource less work resulting in decreased demand for our services. Furthermore, the historical trend toward outsourcing of infrastructure services may not continue as we expect. In addition, consolidation, competition or capital constraints in the electric power industry may result in reduced spending by, or the loss of, one or more of our customers. These fluctuations in demand for our services could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations, particularly during economic downturns. Economic downturns may also adversely affect the pricing of our services. The Energy Policy Act may fail to result in increased spending in the electric power transmission infrastructure, which could slow our expected growth. Implementation of the Energy Policy Act is still subject to considerable fiscal and regulatory uncertainty. Many of the regulations implementing the components of the bill have not been promulgated and many others have only recently been finalized, and the effect of these regulations, once implemented, is uncertain. As a result, the legislation may not result in increased spending on the electric power transmission infrastructure in a manner that will increase demand for our services. Continued uncertainty regarding the implementation of the Energy Policy Act may result in slower growth in demand for our services. Failure to establish and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price. Maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and is important in helping to prevent financial fraud. If we are unable to maintain adequate internal controls, our business and operating results could be harmed. We are currently documenting and will soon begin testing our internal control procedures to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules of the SEC, which require, among other things, our management to assess annually the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and our independent registered public accounting firm to issue a report on that assessment beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending June 30, 2007. During the course of this documentation and testing, we may identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses that we may be unable to remedy before the requisite deadline for those reports. If our management or our independent registered public accounting firm were to conclude in their reports that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information and the trading price of our stock could drop significantly. To be successful, we need to attract and retain qualified personnel, and any inability to do so would adversely affect our business. Our ability to provide high-quality services on a timely basis requires an adequate supply of skilled electricians, linemen and managers. Accordingly, our ability to increase our productivity and profitability 14 Table of Contents will be limited by our ability to employ, train and retain skilled personnel necessary to meet our requirements. Many companies in our industry are currently experiencing shortages of qualified personnel, and we may not be able to maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently. Our labor expenses may also increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of skilled personnel, or we may have to curtail our planned internal growth as a result of labor shortages. We may also spend considerable resources training employees who may then be hired by our competitors, forcing us to spend additional funds to attract personnel to fill those positions. If we are unable to hire and retain qualified personnel in the future, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. In addition, our employees might leave our company and become our competitors. If this happens, we may lose some of our existing clients that have formed relationships with these former employees. In addition, we may lose future clients to a former employee as a competitor. In either event, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We are dependent on our senior management and other key personnel, the loss of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our operations, including our customer relationships, are dependent on the continued efforts of our senior management and other key personnel including, in particular, our chief executive officer, J. Eric Pike. Although we have entered into or intend to enter into employment agreements with our chief executive officer and certain other key employees, we cannot be certain that any individual will continue in such capacity for any particular period of time. We do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our employees. The loss of any member of our senior management or other key personnel, or the inability to hire and retain qualified management and other key personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our industry is highly competitive and we may be unable to compete effectively, retain our customers or win new customers, which could result in reduced profitability and loss of market share. We face intense competition from subsidiaries or divisions of five national companies, approximately eight regional companies and numerous small, owner-operated private companies. We also face competition from the in-house service organizations of our existing or prospective customers, some of which employ personnel who perform some of the same types of services we provide. We compete primarily on the basis of our reputation and relationships with customers, safety and execution record, geographic presence and the breadth of service offerings, pricing and the availability of qualified personnel. Certain of our competitors may have lower cost structures and may, therefore, be able to provide their services at lower rates than we can provide. Many of our current and potential competitors, especially our competitors with national scope, also may have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. In addition, our competitors may succeed in developing the expertise, experience and resources to compete successfully and in marketing and selling new services better than we can. Furthermore, our existing or prospective customers may not continue to outsource services in the future or we may not be able to retain our existing customers or win new customers. The loss of existing customers to our competitors or the failure to win new customers could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, margins and cash flow. We may be unsuccessful at acquiring companies or at integrating companies that we may acquire, and as a result, we may not achieve the expected benefits and our profitability could materially suffer. One of our growth strategies is to consider acquisitions of additional electrical distribution and transmission services providers, both within and outside of our current service territory, when attractive opportunities arise. We expect to face competition for acquisition candidates, which may limit the number of acquisition opportunities and may lead to higher acquisition prices. We may not be able to identify, acquire or profitably manage additional businesses or to integrate successfully any acquired businesses without substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial problems. Further, acquisitions involve a number of special risks, including failure of the acquired business to achieve expected results, diversion of management’s attention, failure to retain key personnel of the acquired business and risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities, some or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may not be able to obtain the necessary acquisition financing or we may have to increase our indebtedness in order to finance an acquisition. If we finance acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, our existing stockholders may be diluted, which could adversely affect the market price of our stock. Our future business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer if we fail to implement successfully our acquisition strategy. 15 Table of Contents We have incurred a substantial amount of indebtedness under a senior credit facility, which may restrict our business and operations, adversely affect our cash flow, and restrict our future access to sufficient funding to finance desired growth. As of June 30, 2006, we had outstanding indebtedness of approximately $253.5 million and had availability of $57.9 million under the $90.0 million revolving portion of our senior credit facility (after giving effect to the outstanding balance of $4.5 million and the outstanding standby letters of credit of approximately $27.6 million). We estimate that our debt service will be approximately $17.9 million for the fiscal 2007, consisting solely of interest payments. After giving effect to our existing interest rate swap and cap agreements, a hypothetical change in the interest rate of 100 basis points on our indebtedness as of June 30, 2006 would have changed annual cash interest expense by approximately $1.8 million. Having this substantial amount of indebtedness (i) makes us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions, (ii) limits our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our strategy or other purposes and (iii) places us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt. Furthermore, our interest expense could increase if interest rates rise because our debt under our senior credit facility bears interest at floating rates. We dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to debt service. If we do not have sufficient earnings to service our debt, we would need to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or sell securities, which we may not be able to do on commercially reasonable terms or at all. All of our total indebtedness consists of a senior credit facility with a group of financial institutions secured by substantially all of our assets. The terms of the credit facility include customary events of default and covenants that limit us from taking certain actions without obtaining the consent of the lenders. In addition, our credit facility requires us to maintain certain financial ratios and restricts our ability to incur additional indebtedness. These restrictions and covenants limit our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions and may prevent us from engaging in transactions that might otherwise be considered beneficial to us, including strategic acquisitions. A breach of our senior credit facility, including any inability to comply with the required financial ratios, could result in a default under that credit facility. In the event of any default under our credit facility, the lenders thereunder would be entitled to accelerate the repayment of amounts outstanding, plus accrued and unpaid interest. Moreover, these lenders would have the option to terminate any obligation to make further extensions of credit under our credit facility. In the event of a default under our credit facility, the lenders thereunder could also proceed to foreclose against the assets securing such obligations. In the event of a foreclosure on all or substantially all of our assets, we may not be able to continue to operate as a going concern. We are in the process of implementing certain financial and accounting applications and investigating a company-wide ERP system which could temporarily disrupt our day-to-day operations. We have recently completed the installation of four core modules of a new accounting system. Additionally, an ERP system, if selected and implemented, would allow for a seamless interface between functions such as accounting and finance, human resources, powerline operations, fleet management and customer relationships. Development and implementation of an ERP system would require substantial financial and personnel resources. While an ERP system would be intended to improve and enhance our information systems, large scale implementation of new information systems exposes us to the risks of start up of the new system and integration of that system with our existing systems and processes, including possible disruption of our financial reporting. Failure to properly implement an ERP system could result in substantial disruptions to our business, including coordinating and processing our normal business activities, testing and recording of certain data necessary to provide oversight over our disclosure controls and procedures and effective internal controls over our financial reporting, and other unforeseen problems. During the ordinary course of our business, we may become subject to lawsuits or indemnity claims, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We have in the past been, and may in the future be, named as a defendant in lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings during the ordinary course of our business. These actions may seek, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, workers’ compensation, employment discrimination, breach of contract, property damage, punitive damages, civil penalties or other losses, consequential damages or injunctive or declaratory relief. In addition, pursuant to our service arrangements, we generally indemnify our customers for claims related to the services we provide thereunder. 16 Table of Contents Furthermore, our services are integral to the operation and performance of the electric distribution and transmission infrastructure. As a result, we may become subject to lawsuits or claims for any failure of the systems that we work on, even if our services are not the cause for such failures. In addition, we may incur civil and criminal liabilities to the extent that our services contributed to any property damage or blackout. With respect to such lawsuits, claims, proceedings and indemnities, we have and will accrue reserves in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. In the event that such actions or indemnities are ultimately resolved unfavorably at amounts exceeding our accrued reserves, or at material amounts, the outcome could materially and adversely affect our reputation, business and results of operations. In addition, payments of significant amounts, even if reserved, could adversely affect our liquidity position. Our failure to comply with, or the imposition of liability under, environmental laws and regulations could result in significant costs. Our facilities and operations, including fueling and truck maintenance, repair, washing and final-stage manufacturing, are subject to various environmental laws and regulations relating principally to the use, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and the discharge of pollutants into the air, water and land. Violations of these requirements, or of any permits required for our operations, could result in significant fines or penalties. We are also subject to laws and regulations that can impose liability, sometimes without regard to fault, for investigating or cleaning up contamination, as well as for damages to property or natural resources and for personal injury arising out of such contamination. Such liabilities may also be joint and several, meaning that we could be held responsible for more than our share of the liability involved, or even the entire amount. The presence of environmental contamination could also interfere with ongoing operations or adversely affect our ability to sell or lease our properties. In addition, we perform work in wetlands and other environmentally sensitive areas, as well as in different types of underground environments. In the event we fail to obtain or comply with any permits required for such activities, or such activities cause any environmental damage, we could incur significant liability. We have incurred costs in connection with environmental compliance, remediation and/or monitoring, and we anticipate that we will continue to do so. Discovery of additional contamination for which we are responsible, the enactment of new laws and regulations, or changes in how existing requirements are enforced, could require us to incur additional costs for compliance or subject us to unexpected liabilities. The electric infrastructure servicing business is subject to seasonal variations, which may cause our operating results to vary significantly from period to period and could cause the market price of our stock to fall. Due to the fact that a significant portion of our business is performed outdoors, our results of operations are subject to seasonal variations. These seasonal variations affect our core activities of maintaining, upgrading and extending electrical distribution power lines and not only our storm restoration services. Generally, during the winter months, demand for new work and maintenance services may be lower due to reduced construction activity during inclement weather. As a result, operating results may vary significantly from period to period. If our operating results fall below the public’s or analysts’ expectations in some future period or periods, the market price of our common stock will likely fall in such period or periods. Weather conditions can adversely affect our operations and revenues. Poor weather conditions, primarily relating to rain events, directly affect our ability to perform services for our customers. Sustained periods of rain, especially when widespread throughout our service area, can negatively affect our results of operations for a particular period. In addition, during periods of E1 Niño conditions, typically more rainfall than average occurs over portions of the U.S. Gulf Coast and Florida, which includes a significant portion of our service territory. According to a National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration report on September 13, 2006, E1 Niño conditions have developed and are likely to continue into early 2007. We have incurred and will continue to incur increased costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as related rules adopted by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange, have imposed substantial requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices and requirements relating to internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We are required to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act by the fiscal year ending June 30, 2007. We expect these rules and regulations to continue to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. Our results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of the impairment of goodwill or other intangibles. When we acquire a business, we record an asset called “goodwill” equal to the excess amount we pay for the business, including liabilities assumed, over the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets of the business 17 Table of Contents we acquire. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 141, Business Combinations, which states that we must identify and value intangible assets that we acquire in business combinations, such as customer arrangements, customer relationships and non-compete agreements, that arise from contractual or other legal rights or that are capable of being separated or divided from the acquired entity and sold, transferred, licensed, rented or exchanged. The fair value of identified intangible assets is based upon an estimate of the future economic benefits expected to result from ownership, which represents the amount at which the assets could be bought or sold in a current transaction between willing parties, that is, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. The FASB issued SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, which provides that goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives not be amortized, but instead must be tested at least annually for impairment, and intangible assets that have finite useful lives should continue to be amortized over their useful lives. SFAS No. 142 also provides specific guidance for testing goodwill and other non-amortized intangible assets for impairment. SFAS No. 142 requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions to allocate goodwill to reporting units and to determine the fair value of reporting unit net assets and liabilities, including, among other things, an assessment of market conditions, projected cash flows, investment rates, cost of capital and growth rates, which could significantly impact the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets. Fair value is determined using a combination of the discounted cash flow, market multiple and market capitalization valuation approaches. Absent any impairment indicators, we perform our impairment tests annually during the fourth quarter. We cannot predict the occurrence of certain future events that might adversely affect the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets that totaled $144.4 million at June 30, 2006. Such events include strategic decisions made in response to economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on our customer base, material negative changes in our relationships with material customers and other parties breaching their contractual obligations under non-compete agreements. Future impairments, if any, will be recognized as operating expenses. The market price of our stock may be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include the various risks described in this section as well as the following: • the failure of securities analysts to continue to cover our common stock or changes in financial estimates by analysts; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions or capital commitments; • changes in market valuation or earnings of our competitors; • variations in quarterly operating results; • availability of capital; • general economic conditions; • terrorist acts; • legislation; • future sales of our common stock; and • investor perception of us and the electric utility industry. Additionally, factors that do not specifically relate to our company may also materially reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. 18 Table of Contents Shares eligible for future sale may cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. As of June 30, 2006, there were 32,577,424 shares of our common stock outstanding. Of this amount, 16,993,535 shares of common stock are freely tradeable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, by persons other than our affiliates within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Additionally, we have filed a “shelf” registration statement with the SEC pursuant to which Lindsay Goldberg & Bessemer and its affiliates may sell up to 8,000,000 shares, or approximately 25%, of our common stock at any time in one or more offerings. The registration statement was declared effected by the SEC on September 20, 2006. The offer or sale of all or a portion of such shares may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. We are required to pay the expenses associated with such offerings. Also, in the future, we may issue our securities in connection with investments and acquisitions. The amount of our common stock issued in connection with an investment or acquisition could constitute a material portion of our then outstanding common stock, and the issuance of such common stock would dilute the ownership percentage of our then existing stockholders. A significant stockholder controls the direction of our business. The concentrated ownership of our common stock will prevent other stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions. Lindsay Goldberg & Bessemer and its affiliates own approximately 40% of the outstanding shares of our common stock representing approximately 40% of the total voting power of our voting stock. Further, management and its affiliates, excluding Lindsay Goldberg & Bessemer and its affiliates, own approximately 7% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, which represents approximately 7% of the total voting power of our voting stock. As a result, Lindsay Goldberg & Bessemer and its affiliates have the ability to effectively control all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the nomination and election of directors, the determination of our corporate and management policies and the determination of the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including potential mergers or acquisitions, asset sales and other significant corporate transactions. The interests of Lindsay Goldberg & Bessemer, or entities controlled by it, may not coincide with the interests of the other holders of our common stock. In addition, stockholders will not be able to prevent Lindsay Goldberg & Bessemer, or entities controlled by it, from selling shares, including all of the shares of our common stock it holds. For example, Lindsay Goldberg & Bessemer, or entities controlled by it, could cause us to make acquisitions that increase the amount of our indebtedness or outstanding shares of common stock or sell revenue-generating assets. Lindsay Goldberg & Bessemer or entities controlled by it may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as Lindsay Goldberg & Bessemer, or entities controlled by it, continue to own a substantial number of shares of common stock, Lindsay Goldberg & Bessemer, or entities controlled by it, will effectively control all our corporate decisions. Anti-takeover provisions of our charter and bylaws may reduce the likelihood of any potential change of control or unsolicited acquisition proposal that stockholders might consider favorable. The anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law create various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. Additionally, provisions of our charter and bylaws could deter, delay or prevent a third-party from acquiring us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. These provisions include: • the authority of the board to issue preferred stock with terms as the board may determine; • the absence of cumulative voting in the election of directors; 19 Table of Contents • limitations on who may call special meetings of stockholders; and • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 