ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to a variety of risks, including the risks described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or not described below may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed and we may not be able to achieve our goals. This Annual Report on Form 10-K also includes statements reflecting assumptions, expectations, projections, intentions, or beliefs about future events that are intended as “forward-looking statements” under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1993 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and should be read in conjunction with the section entitled “Forward-Looking Statements.” We derive a significant portion of our revenues from a small group of customers. The loss of or a significant decrease in services to one or more of these customers could negatively impact our business and results of operations. Our customer base is highly concentrated. Our top ten customers accounted for approximately 55.5%, 47.8% and 56.1% of our revenues for fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Duke Energy was our only customer that represented greater than 10% of our revenues during that time frame, with 19.9%, 15.6%, and 14.7% for fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Given the composition of the utilities, cooperatives and municipalities in our geographic market, we expect a substantial portion of our revenues will continue to be derived from a limited group of customers. We may not be able to maintain our relationships with these customers, and the loss of, or substantial reduction of our sales to, any of our major customers could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 8 Table of Contents Our customers often have no obligation to assign work to us, and many of our arrangements may be terminated on short notice. As a result, we are at risk of losing significant business on short notice. Most of our customers assign work to us under MSAs. Under these arrangements, our customers generally have no obligation to assign work to us and do not guarantee service volumes. Most of our customer arrangements, including our MSAs, may be terminated by our customers on short notice. In addition, many of our customer arrangements, including our MSAs, are open to competitive bidding at the expiration of their terms. As a result, we may be displaced on these arrangements by competitors from time to time. Our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if our customers do not assign work to us or if they cancel a number of significant arrangements and we cannot replace them with similar work. Our storm restoration services are highly volatile and unpredictable, which could result in substantial variations in, and uncertainties regarding, the levels of our financial results from period to period. Revenues derived from our storm restoration services are highly volatile and uncertain due to the unpredictable nature of weather-related events. Our annual storm restoration revenues have ranged from a low of $43.0 million to a high of $185.3 million during the five fiscal years ended June 30, 2008. During fiscal 2006 and 2005, we experienced the largest storm restoration events of our history as several significant hurricanes impacted the Gulf Coast and Florida. Our storm restoration revenues for fiscal 2006 and 2005 are not indicative of the revenues that we typically generate in any period or can be expected to generate in any future period. Our historical results of operations have varied between periods due to the volatility of our storm restoration revenues. The levels of our future revenues and net income may be subject to significant variations and uncertainties from period to period due to the volatility of our storm restoration revenues. In addition, our storm restoration revenues are offset in part by declines in our core powerline services because we staff storm restoration mobilizations in large part by diverting resources from our core powerline services. Our business is subject to numerous hazards that could subject us to substantial monetary and other liabilities. If accidents occur, they could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business is subject to numerous hazards, including electrocutions, fires, natural gas explosions, mechanical failures, weather-related incidents, transportation accidents and damage to utilized equipment. These hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and other consequential damages and could lead to suspension of operations, large damage claims and, in extreme cases, criminal liability. Our safety record is an important consideration for our customers. If serious accidents or fatalities occur, we may be ineligible to bid on certain work, and existing service arrangements could be terminated. In addition, if our safety record was to deteriorate, our ability to bid on certain work could be adversely impacted. Further, regulatory changes implemented by OSHA could impose additional costs on us. Adverse experience with hazards and claims could have a negative effect on our reputation with our existing or potential new customers and our prospects for future work. Our current insurance coverage may not be adequate, and we may not be able to obtain insurance at acceptable rates, or at all. We are partially self-insured for our major risks, and our insurance does not cover all types or amounts of liabilities. Our insurance policies for individual workers’ compensation and vehicle and general liability are subject to substantial deductibles of $1.0 million per occurrence. We are not required to, and do not, specifically set aside funds for our self-insurance programs. At any given time, we are subject to multiple workers’ compensation and personal injury claims. Our insurance policies may not be adequate to protect us from liabilities that we incur in our business. In addition, due to a variety of factors such as increases in claims and projected increases in medical costs and wages, insurance carriers may be unwilling to provide the current levels of coverage without a significant increase in collateral requirements to cover our deductible obligations. Furthermore, our insurance premiums may increase in the future and we may not be able to obtain similar levels of insurance on reasonable terms, or at all. Any such inadequacy of, or inability to obtain, insurance coverage at acceptable rates, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Fuel costs could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Fuel costs, which have been at historically high levels for the past three years, and have continued to rise year over year, constitute a portion of our operating expense. Fuel prices and supplies are influenced by a variety of international, political and economic circumstances. In addition, weather and other unpredictable events may significantly affect fuel prices and supplies. These or other factors could result in higher fuel prices which, in turn, would increase our costs of doing business and lower our gross profit. Fuel and oil expenses were approximately 6.2% of revenues for fiscal 2008. Demand for some of our services is cyclical and vulnerable to industry and economic downturns, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. The demand for infrastructure services has been, and will likely continue to be, cyclical in nature and vulnerable to general downturns in the U.S. economy. When the general level of economic activity deteriorates, our customers may delay or cancel expansions, upgrades, maintenance and repairs to their systems. A number of other factors, including the financial condition of the industry, could adversely affect our customers and their ability or willingness to fund capital expenditures in the future. We are also dependent on the amount of work that our customers outsource. During downturns in the economy, our customers may determine to outsource less work resulting in decreased demand for our services. Furthermore, the historical trend toward outsourcing of infrastructure services may not continue as we expect. In addition, consolidation, competition or capital constraints in the electric power industry may result in reduced spending by, or the loss of, one or more of our customers. These fluctuations in demand for our services could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, particularly during economic downturns. Economic downturns may also adversely affect the pricing of our services. 9 Table of Contents Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price. According to requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules of the SEC, we must assess our ability to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting. If we are unable to maintain adequate internal controls, our business and operating results could be harmed. If our management or our independent registered public accounting firm were to conclude in their reports that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information and the trading price of our stock could drop significantly. To be successful, we need to attract and retain qualified personnel, and any inability to do so would adversely affect our business. Our ability to provide high-quality services on a timely basis requires an adequate supply of skilled linemen and managers. Accordingly, our ability to increase our productivity and profitability will be limited by our ability to employ, train and retain skilled personnel necessary to meet our requirements. We may not be able to maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently. Our labor expenses may also increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of skilled personnel, or we may have to curtail our planned internal growth as a result of labor shortages. We may also spend considerable resources training employees who may then be hired by our competitors, forcing us to spend additional funds to attract personnel to fill those positions. If we are unable to hire and retain qualified personnel in the future, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our employees might leave our company and become our competitors. If this happens, we may lose some of our existing clients that have formed relationships with these former employees. In addition, we may lose future clients to a former employee as a competitor. In either event, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on our senior management and other key personnel, the loss of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our operations, including our customer relationships, are dependent on the continued efforts of our senior management and other key personnel including, in particular, our chief executive officer, J. Eric Pike. Although we have entered into or intend to enter into employment agreements with our chief executive officer and certain other key employees, we cannot be certain that any individual will continue in such capacity for any particular period of time. We do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our employees. The loss of any member of our senior management or other key personnel, or the inability to hire and retain qualified management and other key personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A continued slowdown in the housing market could negatively affect our revenues from distribution work. Because a portion of our distribution revenue is related to new home construction, we may face reductions in our distribution business when residential housing starts slow. Historically, during such situations, we have generally seen customers shift spending to other projects, such as upgrades to the power networks and projects related to new apartment buildings. However, depending on the severity and duration of the downturn, we could be unable to fully replace lost revenues, which could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our industry is highly competitive and we may be unable to compete effectively, retain our customers or win new customers, which could result in reduced profitability and loss of market share. We face intense competition from subsidiaries or divisions of four national companies, approximately eight regional companies and numerous small, owner-operated private companies. We also face competition from the in-house service organizations of our existing or prospective customers, some of which employ personnel who perform some of the same types of services we provide. We compete primarily on the basis of our reputation and relationships with customers, safety and execution record, geographic presence and the breadth of service offerings, pricing and the availability of qualified personnel. Certain of our competitors may have lower cost structures and may, therefore, be able to provide their services at lower rates than we can provide. Many of our current and potential competitors, especially our competitors with national scope, also may have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. In addition, our competitors may succeed in developing the expertise, experience and resources to compete successfully and in marketing and selling new services better than we can. Furthermore, our existing or prospective customers may not continue to outsource services in the future or we may not be able to retain our existing customers or win new customers. The loss of existing customers to our competitors or the failure to win new customers could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents We may be unsuccessful at acquiring companies or at integrating companies that we acquire, and as a result, we may not achieve the expected benefits and our profitability could materially suffer. One of our growth strategies is to consider acquisitions of additional electrical distribution and transmission services providers, both within and outside of our current service territory, when attractive opportunities arise. We expect to face competition for acquisition candidates, which may limit the number of acquisition opportunities and may lead to higher acquisition prices. We may not be able to identify, acquire or profitably manage additional businesses or to integrate successfully any acquired businesses without substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial problems. Further, acquisitions involve a number of special risks, including failure of the acquired business to achieve expected results, diversion of management’s attention, failure to retain key personnel of the acquired business and risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities, some or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may not be able to obtain the necessary acquisition financing or we may have to increase our indebtedness in order to finance an acquisition. If we finance acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, our existing stockholders may be diluted, which could adversely affect the market price of our stock. Our future business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer if we fail to implement successfully our acquisition strategy. We acquired substantially all of the assets of Shaw Energy Delivery Services, Inc. on September 1, 2008, and this acquisition could have a negative effect on our business and results of operations. On September 1, 2008, we acquired substantially all of the assets of EDS, formerly an affiliate of The Shaw Group, pursuant to an asset purchase agreement executed on June 18, 2008, amended on August 14, 2008. The acquired assets and assumed liabilities could weaken our financial results, impose internal control issues and produce other unforeseen negative consequences on our existing business. We also had some customer overlap prior to the purchase. If any of the customers in common were to reduce the volume of work with us to reduce vendor concentration, such decreases could adversely impact our revenues and profitability. We have incurred transactional costs related to the acquisition and we may not realize all anticipated synergies. We have incurred indebtedness under a senior credit facility, which may restrict our business and operations, and restrict our future access to sufficient funding to finance desired growth. As of June 30, 2008, we had outstanding indebtedness of approximately $140.5 million and had availability of $66.4 million under the $90.0 million revolving portion of our senior credit facility (after giving effect to the outstanding standby letters of credit of $23.6 million). Including the impact of active interest rate swaps, a hypothetical change in the interest rate of 50 basis points on our indebtedness as of June 30, 2008 would change annual cash interest expense by approximately $0.2 million. We typically dedicate a portion of our cash flow to debt service. If we do not ultimately have sufficient earnings to service our debt, which matures in fiscal 2013, we would need to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or sell securities, which we may not be able to do on commercially reasonable terms or at all. All of our outstanding indebtedness consists of a senior credit facility with a group of financial institutions secured by substantially all of our assets. The terms of the credit facility include customary events of default and covenants that limit us from taking certain actions without obtaining the consent of the lenders. In addition, our credit facility requires us to maintain certain financial ratios and restricts our ability to incur additional indebtedness. These restrictions and covenants limit our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions and may prevent us from engaging in transactions that might otherwise be considered beneficial to us, including strategic acquisitions. A breach of our senior credit facility, including any inability to comply with the required financial ratios, could result in a default under that credit facility. In the event of any default under our credit facility, the lenders thereunder would be entitled to accelerate the repayment of amounts outstanding, plus accrued and unpaid interest. Moreover, these lenders would have the option to terminate any obligation to make further extensions of credit under our credit facility. In the event of a default under our credit facility, the lenders thereunder could also proceed to foreclose against the assets securing such obligations. In the event of a foreclosure on all or substantially all of our assets, we may not be able to continue to operate as a going concern. We are in the process of implementing a company-wide information technology (“IT”) solution which could temporarily disrupt our day-to-day operations. We are implementing a comprehensive IT solution that will allow for a seamless interface between functions such as accounting and finance, human resources, powerline operations, fleet management and customer relationships. Development and implementation of the IT solution will require substantial financial and personnel resources. While the IT solution is intended to improve and enhance our information systems, large scale implementation of new information systems exposes us to the risks of start up of the new system and integration of that system with our existing systems and processes, including possible disruption of our financial reporting. Failure to properly implement the IT solution could result in substantial disruptions to our business, including coordinating and processing our normal business activities, testing and recording of certain data necessary to provide oversight over our disclosure controls and procedures and effective internal controls over our financial reporting, and other unforeseen problems. 11 Table of Contents During the ordinary course of our business, we may become subject to lawsuits or indemnity claims, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We have in the past been, and may in the future be, named as a defendant in lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings during the ordinary course of our business. These actions may seek, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, workers’ compensation, employment discrimination, breach of contract, property damage, punitive damages, civil penalties or other losses, consequential damages or injunctive or declaratory relief. In addition, pursuant to our service arrangements, we generally indemnify our customers for claims related to the services we provide thereunder. Furthermore, our services are integral to the operation and performance of the electric distribution and transmission infrastructure. As a result, we may become subject to lawsuits or claims for any failure of the systems that we work on, even if our services are not the cause for such failures. In addition, we may incur civil and criminal liabilities to the extent that our services contributed to any property damage or blackout. With respect to such lawsuits, claims, proceedings and indemnities, we have and will accrue reserves in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. In the event that such actions or indemnities are ultimately resolved unfavorably at amounts exceeding our accrued reserves, or at material amounts, the outcome could materially and adversely affect our reputation, business and results of operations. In addition, payments of significant amounts, even if reserved, could adversely affect our liquidity position. Our failure to comply with or the imposition of liability under, environmental laws and regulations could result in significant costs. Our facilities and operations, including fueling and truck maintenance, repair, washing and final-stage manufacturing, are subject to various environmental laws and regulations relating principally to the use, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and the discharge of pollutants into the air, water and land. Violations of these requirements, or of any permits required for our operations, could result in significant fines or penalties. We are also subject to laws and regulations that can impose liability, sometimes without regard to fault, for investigating or cleaning up contamination, as well as for damages to property or natural resources and for personal injury arising out of such contamination. Such liabilities may also be joint and several, meaning that we could be held responsible for more than our share of the liability involved, or even the entire amount. The presence of environmental contamination could also interfere with ongoing operations or adversely affect our ability to sell or lease our properties. In the event we fail to obtain or comply with any permits required for such activities, or such activities cause any environmental damage, we could incur significant liability. We have incurred costs in connection with environmental compliance, remediation and/or monitoring, and we anticipate that we will continue to do so. Discovery of additional contamination for which we are responsible, the enactment of new laws and regulations, or changes in how existing requirements are enforced, could require us to incur additional costs for compliance or subject us to unexpected liabilities. Weather conditions can adversely affect our operations and, consequently, revenues. The electric infrastructure servicing business is subject to seasonal variations, which may cause our operating results to vary significantly from period to period and could cause the market price of our stock to fall. Due to the fact that a significant portion of our business is performed outdoors, our results of operations are subject to seasonal variations. These seasonal variations affect our core activities of maintaining, upgrading and extending electrical distribution power lines and not only our storm restoration services. Sustained periods of rain, especially when widespread throughout our service area, can negatively affect our results of operations for a particular period. In addition, during periods of El Niño conditions, typically more rainfall than average occurs over portions of the U.S. Gulf Coast and Florida, which includes a significant portion of our service territory. Generally, during the winter months, demand for new work and maintenance services may be lower due to reduced construction activity during inclement weather. As a result, operating results may vary significantly from period to period. If our operating results fall below the public’s or analysts’ expectations in some future period or periods, the market price of our common stock will likely fall in such period or periods. Our results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of the impairment of goodwill or other intangibles. When we acquire a business, we record an asset called “goodwill” equal to the excess amount we pay for the business, including liabilities assumed, over the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets of the business we acquire. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 141, Business Combinations, which states that we must identify and value intangible assets that we acquire in business combinations, such as customer arrangements, customer relationships and non-compete agreements, that arise from contractual or other legal rights or that are capable of being separated or divided from the acquired entity and sold, transferred, licensed, rented or exchanged. The fair value of identified intangible assets is based upon an estimate of the future economic benefits expected to result from ownership, which represents the amount at which the assets could be bought or sold in a current transaction between willing parties, that is, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. The FASB issued SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, which provides that goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives not be amortized, but instead must be tested at least annually for impairment, and intangible assets that have finite useful lives should continue to be amortized over their useful lives. SFAS No. 142 also provides specific guidance for testing goodwill and other non-amortized intangible assets for impairment. SFAS No. 142 requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions to allocate goodwill to reporting units and to determine the fair value of reporting unit net assets and liabilities, including, among other things, an assessment of market conditions, projected cash flows, investment rates, cost of capital and growth rates, which could significantly impact the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets. Fair value is determined using a combination of the discounted cash flow, market multiple and market capitalization valuation approaches. Absent any impairment indicators, we perform our impairment tests annually during the fourth quarter. We review our intangible assets with finite lives for impairment when events or changes in business conditions indicate the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable, as required by SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets. An impairment of intangible assets with finite lives exists if the sum of the undiscounted estimated future cash flows expected is less than the carrying value of the assets. If this measurement indicates a possible impairment, we compare the estimated fair value of the asset to the net book value to measure the impairment charge, if any. 12 Table of Contents We cannot predict the occurrence of certain future events that might adversely affect the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets that totaled $134.5 million at June 30, 2008. Such events include strategic decisions made in response to economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on our customer base, material negative changes in our relationships with material customers and other parties breaching their contractual obligations under non-compete agreements. Future impairments, if any, will be recognized as operating expenses. The market price of our stock may be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include the various risks described in this section as well as the following: • the failure of securities analysts to continue to cover our common stock or changes in financial estimates or recommendations by analysts; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions or capital commitments; • changes in market valuation or earnings of our competitors; • variations in quarterly operating results; • availability of capital; • general economic conditions; • terrorist acts; • legislation; • future sales of our common stock; and • investor perception of us and the electric utility industry. Additionally, factors that do not specifically relate to our company may also materially reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Shares eligible for future sale may cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. As of June 30, 2008, there were 33,183,468 shares of our common stock outstanding. Of this amount, 17,883,546 shares of common stock are freely tradeable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, by persons other than our affiliates within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Additionally, we have filed a “shelf” registration statement with the SEC pursuant to which Lindsay Goldberg and its affiliates (“LGB”) may sell up to 8,000,000 shares, or approximately 25%, of our common stock at any time in one or more offerings. The registration statement was declared effective by the SEC on September 20, 2006. The offer or sale of all or a portion of such shares may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. We are required to pay the expenses associated with such offerings. Also, in the future, we may issue our securities in connection with investments and acquisitions. The amount of our common stock issued in connection with an investment or acquisition could constitute a material portion of our then outstanding common stock, and the issuance of such common stock would dilute the ownership percentage of our then existing stockholders. The concentration of our capital stock will limit other stockholders ability to influence corporate matters. LGB owns approximately 40% of the total voting power of our outstanding shares of common stock. In addition, J. Eric Pike, our Chairman, CEO and President, has the ability to control approximately 8% of the total voting power of our outstanding shares of common stock. LGB and Mr. Pike also are parties to an agreement whereby LGB has agreed to vote its shares in favor of Mr. Pike being a director of the Company subject to certain conditions. As a result, LGB and Mr. Pike, together, have the ability to exert substantial influence or actual control over the Company’s management and affairs and over most matters requiring action by the Company’s stockholders. The interests of LGB or Mr. Pike, or their respective affiliates, may not coincide with the interests of the other holders of our common stock. This concentration of ownership also may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control otherwise favored by our other stockholders and could depress the stock price. 13 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions of our charter and bylaws may reduce the likelihood of any potential change of control or unsolicited acquisition proposal that stockholders might consider favorable. The anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law create various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. Additionally, provisions of our charter and bylaws could deter, delay or prevent a third-party from acquiring us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. These provisions include: the authority of the board to issue preferred stock with terms as the board may determine, the absence of cumulative voting in the election of directors, limitations on who may call special meetings of stockholders, and advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals. Utilities focus on power generation may temporarily divert attention and capital away from maintenance projects we perform. As United States energy consumption increases, utilities will commit additional capital to power generation projects. This capital demand may cause certain distribution powerline maintenance projects to be deferred. Bonding indemnification requirements may change on existing or new contracts. Customer requirements may increase our costs or in some cases result in collateral agreements or other reductions of availability under our revolving credit agreement. In addition, our surety providers may decline to modify current bonds or issue new bonds based on their assessment of risk. If we experienced a disruption in bonding availability, we may be unable to bid certain projects. Our financial results are based upon estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results. In preparing our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, several estimates and assumptions are used by management in determining the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses recognized during the periods presented and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities known to exist as of the date of the financial statements. These estimates and assumptions must be made because certain information that is used in the preparation of our financial statements is dependent on future events, cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from data available or is not capable of being readily calculated based on generally accepted methodologies. In some cases, these estimates are particularly difficult to determine and we must exercise significant judgment. Estimates are primarily used in our assessment of the allowance for doubtful accounts, valuation of inventory, useful lives and salvage values of property and equipment, fair value assumptions in analyzing goodwill and long-lived asset impairments, self-insured claims liabilities, forfeiture estimates relating to stock-based compensation, revenue recognition and provision for income taxes. Actual results for all estimates could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that we use, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 