ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to a variety of risks, including the risks described below. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and we may not be able to achieve our goals. This Annual Report on Form 10-K also includes statements reflecting assumptions, expectations, projections, intentions, or beliefs about future events that are intended as “forward-looking statements” under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1993 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and should be read in conjunction with the section entitled “Forward-Looking Statements.” The economic downturn and instability in the financial markets may adversely impact our customers’ future spending as well as payment for our services and, as a result, our operations and growth. The U.S. economy is still recovering from the recent recession, and growth in U.S. economic activity has slowed substantially. The financial markets also have not fully recovered. It is uncertain when these conditions will significantly improve. Stagnant or declining U.S. economic conditions have adversely impacted the demand for our services and resulted in the delay, reduction or cancellation of certain projects and may continue to adversely affect us in the future. Additionally, our customers may finance their projects through the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. The availability of credit remains constrained, and many of our customers’ equity values have not fully recovered from the negative impact of the recession. A reduction in cash flow or the lack of availability of debt or equity financing may continue to result in a reduction in our customers’ spending for our services and may also impact the ability of our customers to pay amounts owed to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and our ability to grow at historical levels. A further reduction in customer spending for our services may increase competitive pressures and potentially lower operating margins. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from a small group of customers. The loss of or a significant decrease in services to one or more of these customers could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our customer base is highly concentrated. Our top ten customers accounted for approximately 59%, 59%, and 56% of our revenues for fiscal 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. Duke Energy was our only customer that represented greater than 10% of our revenues during that time frame, accounting for 20%, 22%, and 20% of our revenues for fiscal 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. The planned merger of Duke Energy and Progress Energy would further increase our customer concentration where 26.4%, 29.1%, and 22.5% of our fiscal 2011, 2010, and 2009 revenues, respectively, were received from Duke Energy and Progress Energy together. Given the composition of the investor-owned, municipal and co-operative electric utilities in our geographic market, we expect a substantial portion of our revenues will continue to be derived from a limited group of customers. We may not be able to maintain our relationships with these customers, and the loss of, or substantial reduction of our sales to, any of our major customers could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents Our customers often have no obligation to assign work to us, and many of our arrangements may be terminated on short notice. As a result, we are at risk of losing significant business on short notice. Most of our customers assign work to us under MSAs. Under these arrangements, our customers generally have no obligation to assign work to us and do not guarantee service volumes. Most of our customer arrangements, including our MSAs, may be terminated by our customers on short notice. In addition, many of our customer arrangements, including our MSAs, are open to competitive bidding at the expiration of their terms. As a result, we may be displaced on these arrangements by competitors from time to time. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if our customers do not assign work to us or if they cancel a number of significant arrangements and we cannot replace them with similar work. Our industry is highly competitive and we may be unable to compete effectively, retain our customers or win new customers, which could result in reduced profitability and loss of market share. We face intense competition from subsidiaries or divisions of four national companies, approximately eight regional companies and numerous small, owner-operated private companies. We also face competition from the in-house service organizations of our existing or prospective customers, some of which employ personnel who perform some of the same types of services we provide. We compete primarily on the basis of our reputation and relationships with customers, safety and execution record, geographic presence and our breadth of service offerings, pricing and availability of qualified personnel. Certain of our competitors may have lower cost structures and may, therefore, be able to provide their services at lower rates than we can provide. Many of our current and potential competitors, especially our competitors with national scope, also may have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. In addition, our competitors may succeed in developing the expertise, experience and resources to compete successfully and in marketing and selling new services better than we can. Furthermore, our existing or prospective customers may not continue to outsource services in the future or we may not be able to retain our existing customers or win new customers. The loss of existing customers to our competitors or the failure to win new customers could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our storm restoration services are highly volatile and unpredictable, which could result in substantial variations in, and uncertainties regarding, the levels of our financial results from period to period. Revenues derived from our storm restoration services are highly volatile and uncertain due to the unpredictable nature of weather-related events. Our annual storm restoration revenues have ranged from a low of $46.6 million to a high of $152.9 million during the five fiscal years ended June 30, 2011. During fiscal 2009, we experienced some of the largest storm restoration events in our history as several significant hurricanes impacted the Gulf Coast and Florida and significant winter storms affected the Midwest. Our storm restoration revenue for fiscal 2009 is not indicative of the revenue that we typically generate in any period or can be expected to generate in any future period. Our historical results of operations have varied between periods due to the volatility of our storm restoration revenues. The levels of our future revenues and net income (loss) may be subject to significant variations and uncertainties from period to period due to the volatility of our storm restoration revenues. In addition, our storm restoration revenues are offset in part by declines in our core services because we staff storm restoration mobilizations in large part by diverting resources from our core services. We are subject to the risks associated with government construction projects. Our utility customers often engage us to provide services on government construction projects, and we also provide services directly on government construction projects, primarily for state and local governments. We are therefore exposed to the risks associated with government construction projects, including the risks that spending on construction may be reduced, pending projects may be terminated or curtailed and planned projects may not be pursued as expected or at all as a result of the economic downturn or otherwise. In addition, government customers typically can terminate or modify any of their contracts at their convenience, and some of these government contracts are subject to renewal or extension annually. If a government customer terminates or modifies a contract, our backlog and revenue may be reduced or we may incur a loss, either of which could impair our financial condition and operating results. A termination due to our unsatisfactory performance could expose us to liability and adversely affect our ability to compete for future projects and orders. In cases where we are a subcontractor, the primary contract under which we subcontract could be terminated, regardless of the quality of our services as a subcontractor or our relationship with the relevant government customer. The risks of government construction projects also include the increased risk of civil and criminal fines and penalties for violations of applicable regulations and statutes and the risk of public scrutiny of our performance on high profile sites. In addition, our failure to comply with the terms of one or more of our government contracts, other government agreements, or government regulations and statutes could result in our being suspended or barred from future government construction projects for a significant period of time. We could also be indirectly exposed to certain of these risks when we indemnify our customers performing work on government construction projects. 11 Table of Contents We may incur warranty costs that could adversely affect our profitability. Under almost all of our contracts, we warrant certain aspects of our maintenance and construction services. To the extent we incur substantial warranty claims in any period, our reputation, our ability to obtain future business from our customers and our profitability could be adversely affected. We cannot provide assurance that significant warranty claims will not be made in the future. We may incur liabilities or suffer negative financial or reputational impacts relating to occupational health and safety matters. Our operations are subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to the maintenance of safe conditions in the workplace. While we have invested, and will continue to invest, substantial resources in our occupational health and safety programs, our industry involves a high degree of operational risk and there can be no assurance that we will avoid significant liability exposure. Although we have taken what we believe are appropriate precautions, our employees have suffered fatalities in the past and may suffer additional fatalities in the future. Serious accidents, including fatalities, may subject us to substantial penalties, civil litigation or criminal prosecution. Claims for damages to persons, including claims for bodily injury or loss of life, could result in substantial costs and liabilities, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, if our safety record were to substantially deteriorate over time or we were to suffer substantial penalties or criminal prosecution for violation of health and safety regulations, our customers could cancel our contracts and not award us future business. Our business is subject to numerous hazards that could subject us to substantial monetary and other liabilities. If accidents occur, they could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business is subject to numerous hazards, including electrocutions, fires, natural gas explosions, mechanical failures, weather-related incidents, transportation accidents and damage to utilized equipment. These hazards could cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and other consequential damages and could lead to suspension of operations, large damage claims and, in extreme cases, criminal liability. Our safety record is an important consideration for our customers. If serious accidents or fatalities occur, we may be ineligible to bid on certain work, and existing service arrangements could be terminated. In addition, if our safety record was to deteriorate, our ability to bid on certain work could be adversely impacted. Further, regulatory changes implemented by OSHA could impose additional costs on us. Adverse experience with hazards and claims could have a negative effect on our reputation with our existing or potential new customers and our prospects for future work. Federal and state legislative and regulatory developments that we believe should encourage electric power transmission infrastructure spending may fail to result in increased demand for our services. In recent years, federal and state legislation has been passed and resulting regulations have been adopted that could significantly increase spending on electric power transmission infrastructure, including the Energy Act of 2005 and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”). However, much fiscal, regulatory and other uncertainty remains as to the impact this legislation and regulation will ultimately have on the demand for our services. For instance, regulations implementing provisions of the Energy Act of 2005 that may affect demand for our services remain, in some cases, subject to review in various federal courts. In one such case, decided in February 2009, a federal court of appeals vacated Federal Energy Regulatory Commission’s interpretation of the scope of its backstop transmission line siting authority for electric power transmission projects. Accordingly, the effect of these regulations, once finally implemented, is uncertain and may not result in increased spending on the electric power transmission infrastructure. Continued uncertainty regarding the implementation of the Energy Act of 2005 and ARRA may result in slower growth in demand for our services. Renewable energy initiatives, including ARRA, may not lead to increased demand for our services. In addition, we cannot predict when programs under ARRA will be implemented or the timing and scope of any investments to be made under these programs, particularly in light of capital constraints on potential developers of these projects. Investments for renewable energy and electric power infrastructure under ARRA may not occur, may be less than anticipated or may be delayed, may be concentrated in locations where we do not have significant capabilities, and any resulting contracts may not be awarded to us, any of which could negatively impact demand for our services. 12 Table of Contents Utilities’ focus on power generation has and may continue to temporarily divert attention and capital away from maintenance projects we perform. Utilities have and may continue to commit additional capital to power generation projects. This capital demand has and may continue to cause certain distribution powerline maintenance projects to be deferred. Any deferral in spending on maintenance of distribution infrastructure by our customers could result in our having decreased revenues and place further pressure on our business model and ability to remain profitable. Inability to perform our obligations under EPC and fixed-price contracts may adversely affect our business. EPC contracts require us to perform a range of services for our customers, some of which we routinely subcontract to other parties. While only 21% and 13% of our revenues were derived from fixed-price contracts during fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively, more of our business is moving to fixed-price contracts. We believe that these types of contracts will become increasingly prevalent in the powerline industry. In most instances, these contracts require completion of a project by a specific date and the achievement of certain performance standards. If we subsequently fail to meet such dates or standards, we may be held responsible for costs resulting from such failure. Our inability to obtain the necessary material and equipment to meet a project schedule or the installation of defective material or equipment could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Demand for some of our services is cyclical and vulnerable to industry and economic downturns, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. The demand for infrastructure services has been, and will likely continue to be, cyclical in nature and vulnerable to general downturns in the U.S. economy. When the general level of economic activity deteriorates, our customers may delay or cancel expansions, upgrades, maintenance and repairs to their systems. A number of other factors, including the financial condition of the industry, could adversely affect our customers and their ability or willingness to fund capital expenditures in the future. We are also dependent on the amount of work that our customers outsource. During downturns in the economy, our customers may determine to outsource less work resulting in decreased demand for our services. Furthermore, the historical trend toward outsourcing of infrastructure services may not continue as we expect. In addition, consolidation, competition or capital constraints in the electric power industry may result in reduced spending by, or the loss of, one or more of our customers. These fluctuations in demand for our services could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, particularly during economic downturns. Economic downturns may also adversely affect the pricing of our services. To be successful, we need to attract and retain qualified personnel, and any inability to do so would adversely affect our business. Our ability to provide high-quality services on a timely basis requires an adequate supply of engineers, skilled linemen and project managers. Accordingly, our ability to increase our productivity and profitability will be limited by our ability to employ, train and retain skilled personnel necessary to meet our requirements. We may not be able to maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently. Our labor expenses may also increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of skilled personnel, or we may have to curtail our planned internal growth as a result of labor shortages. We may also spend considerable resources training employees who may then be hired by our competitors, forcing us to spend additional funds to attract personnel to fill those positions. In addition, our employees might leave our company and join our competitors. If this happens, we may lose some of our existing clients that have formed relationships with these former employees. In addition, we may lose future clients to a former employee as a competitor. If we are unable to hire and retain qualified personnel in the future, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on our senior management and other key personnel, the loss of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations, including our customer relationships, are dependent on the continued efforts of our senior management and other key personnel. Although we have entered into employment agreements with our key employees, we cannot be certain that any individual will continue in such capacity for any particular period of time. We do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our employees. The loss of any member of our senior management or other key personnel, or the inability to hire and retain qualified management and other key personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Our unionized workforce could adversely affect our operations and our ability to complete future acquisitions. In addition, we contribute to multi-employer plans that could result in liabilities to us if these plans are terminated or we withdraw. Our acquisition of Klondyke introduced a unionized workforce to our operations, as substantially all of its hourly employees are unionized. In addition, our acquisition on August 1, 2011, of Pine Valley further expanded our unionized workforce, as substantially all of its employees also are unionized. As of June 30, 2011, approximately 1% of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. This percentage could grow if more of our employees unionize or we expand our services in states that have predominantly unionized workforces in our industry. Any strikes or work stoppages could adversely impact our relationships with our customers, hinder our ability to conduct business and increase costs. Our current workforce could experience an increase in union organizing activity, particularly if legislation that would facilitate such activity, such as the Employee Free Choice Act now pending before Congress, becomes law. Increased unionization could increase our costs, and we may not be able to recoup those cost increases by increasing prices for our services. With the acquisition of Klondyke in June 2010 and Pine Valley in August 2011, we now contribute to several multi-employer pension plans for employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. These plans are not administered by us, and contributions are determined in accordance with provisions of negotiated labor contracts. The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended by the Multi-employer Pension Plan Amendments Act of 1980, imposes certain liabilities upon employers who are contributors to a multi-employer plan in the event of the employer’s withdrawal from, or upon termination of, such plan. We do not routinely review information on the net assets and actuarial present value of the multi-employer pension plans’ unfunded vested benefits allocable to us, if any, and we are not presently aware of the amounts, if any, for which we may be contingently liable if we were to withdraw from any of these plans. In addition, if any of these multi-employer plans enters “critical status” under the Pension Protection Act of 2006, we could be required to make significant additional contributions to those plans. Our ability to complete future acquisitions could be adversely affected because of our union status for a variety of reasons. For example, our union agreements may be incompatible with the union agreements of a business we want to acquire, and some businesses may or may not want to become affiliated with a company that maintains a significantly unionized workforce. Additionally, we may increase our exposure to withdrawal liabilities for underfunded multi-employer pension plans to which an acquired company contributes. We require subcontractors to assist us in providing certain services and we may be unable to retain the necessary subcontractors to complete certain projects. We use subcontractors to perform portions of our contracts and to manage workflow. Although we are not dependent upon any single subcontractor, general market conditions may limit the availability of subcontractors on which we rely to perform portions of our contracts and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our current insurance coverage may not be adequate, and we may not be able to obtain insurance at acceptable rates, or at all. We are partially self-insured for our major risks, and our insurance does not cover all types or amounts of liabilities. Our insurance policies for individual workers’ compensation and vehicle and general liability are subject to substantial deductibles of $1.0 million per occurrence. We are not required to, and do not, specifically set aside funds for our self-insurance programs. At any given time, we are subject to multiple workers’ compensation and personal injury claims. Our insurance policies may not be adequate to protect us from liabilities that we incur in our business. In addition, business insurance programs require collateral currently provided by $19.6 million in letters of credit and cash deposits of $1.8 million. In addition, due to a variety of factors such as increases in claims and projected increases in medical costs and wages, insurance carriers may be unwilling to provide the current levels of coverage without a significant increase in collateral requirements to cover our deductible obligations. Furthermore, our insurance premiums may increase in the future and we may not be able to obtain similar levels of insurance on reasonable terms, or at all. Any such inadequacy of, or inability to obtain, insurance coverage at acceptable rates, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Fuel costs could materially and adversely affect our operating results. We have a large fleet of vehicles and equipment that primarily use diesel fuel. Our fuel and oil expenses have ranged from 4.4% to 6.2% of our total revenues over the last three fiscal years. Fuel costs have been very volatile over the last several years. Fuel prices and supplies are influenced by a variety of international, political and economic circumstances. In addition, weather and other unpredictable events may significantly affect fuel prices and supplies. These or other factors could result in higher fuel prices which, in turn, would increase our costs of doing business and lower our gross profit. 14 Table of Contents A portion of our business depends on our ability to provide surety bonds or letters of credit and we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects if we are not able to obtain the necessary surety bonds or letters of credit. A portion of our contracts require and we expect that a portion of our future contracts will require that we provide our customers with security for the performance of their projects. This security may be in the form of a “performance bond” (a bond whereby a commercial surety provides for the benefit of the customer a bond insuring completion of the project) or a letter of credit. Further, under standard terms in the surety market, sureties issue or continue bonds on a project-by-project basis and can decline to issue bonds at any time or require the posting of additional collateral as a condition to issuing or renewing any bonds. Current or future market conditions, including losses incurred in the construction industry, decreases in lending activity and ultimately our performance on contracts, may have a negative effect on surety providers. These market conditions, as well as changes in our surety providers’ assessment of our operating and financial risk, could also cause our surety providers to decline to issue or renew, or substantially reduce the amount of, bonds for our work and could increase our bonding costs. These actions could be taken on short notice. If our surety providers were to limit or eliminate our access to bonding, our alternatives would include seeking bonding capacity from other sureties, finding more business that does not require bonds and posting other forms of collateral for project performance, such as letters of credit or cash. We may be unable to secure these alternatives in a timely manner, on acceptable terms, or at all. Accordingly, if we were to experience an interruption or reduction in our availability of bonding capacity, we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects and such interruption or reduction could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are able to obtain letters of credit, we may be unable to provide the requested terms or amounts of our customers based upon the terms of our senior credit facility. We extend credit to customers for purchases of our services. In the past we have had, and in the future we may have, difficulty collecting receivables from customers that are subject to protection under bankruptcy or insolvency laws, are otherwise experiencing financial difficulties or dispute the amount owed to us. We grant credit, generally without collateral, to our customers located throughout the United States and abroad. Consequently, we are subject to potential credit risk related to changes in the electric power and gas utility industries and their performance. Please refer to Note 17 of our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional information regarding the concentration of our credit risk among our larger customers. If any of our large customers, some of which are highly leveraged, file for bankruptcy or experience financial difficulties, we could suffer reduced cash flows and losses in excess of current allowances provided. We could also experience adverse financial effects if our customers dispute or refuse to pay the amounts owed to us for various reasons, such as disagreement as to the terms of the governing contract, or dissatisfaction with the quality or timing of the work we performed. The current economic downturn has adversely affected many of our customers and increased the risk that a greater percentage of our accounts receivable will not be collectible. Our allowance for doubtful accounts was less than 1% of accounts receivable at June 30, 2011. We cannot provide assurance that this estimate will be realized or that the allowance will be sufficient. Weather conditions can adversely affect our operations and, consequently, revenues. The electric infrastructure servicing business is subject to seasonal variations, which may cause our operating results to vary significantly from period to period and could cause the market price of our stock to fall. Due to the fact that a significant portion of our business is performed outdoors, our results of operations are subject to seasonal variations. These seasonal variations affect our core activities of maintaining, upgrading and extending electrical distribution powerlines and not only our storm restoration services. Sustained periods of rain, especially when widespread throughout our service area, can negatively affect our results of operations for a particular period. In addition, during periods of El Niño conditions, typically more rainfall than average occurs over portions of the U.S. Gulf Coast and Florida, which includes a significant portion of our service territory. Generally, during the winter months, demand for new work and maintenance services may be lower due to reduced construction activity during inclement weather. As a result, operating results may vary significantly from period to period. 15 Table of Contents Our financial results are based upon estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results. In preparing our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“U.S. GAAP”), several estimates and assumptions are used by management in determining the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses recognized during the periods presented and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities known to exist as of the date of the financial statements. These estimates and assumptions must be made because certain information that is used in the preparation of our financial statements is dependent on future events, cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from data available or is not capable of being readily calculated based on generally accepted methodologies. In some cases, these estimates are particularly difficult to determine and we must exercise significant judgment. Estimates are primarily used in our assessment of the allowance for doubtful accounts, valuation of inventory, useful lives and salvage values of property and equipment, fair value assumptions in analyzing goodwill and long-lived asset impairments, self-insured claims liabilities, forfeiture estimates relating to stock-based compensation, revenue recognition and provision for income taxes. Actual results for all estimates could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that we use, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price. According to requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules of the SEC, we must assess our ability to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting. If we are unable to maintain adequate internal controls, our business and operating results could be harmed. If our management or our independent registered public accounting firm were to conclude in their reports that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information and the trading price of our stock could drop significantly. We have incurred indebtedness under a revolving credit facility, which may restrict our business and operations, and restrict our future access to sufficient funding to finance desired growth. As of June 30, 2011, we had $99.0 million outstanding under our term loan facilities and no borrowings outstanding and $89.4 million of availability under our $115.0 million revolving credit facility (after giving effect to outstanding standby letters of credit of $25.6 million). On August 24, 2011, we repaid this indebtedness and concurrently entered into a new $200 million revolving credit facility. As of such date, we had $115 million in borrowings and $61.9 million of availability under this facility (after giving effect to outstanding standby letters of credit of $23.1 million). This borrowing availability is subject to, and potentially limited by, our compliance with the covenants of our revolving credit facility. We typically dedicate a portion of our cash flow to debt service. If we do not ultimately have sufficient earnings to service our debt, which matures in fiscal 2016, we would need to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or sell securities, which we may not be able to do on commercially reasonable terms or at all. All of our outstanding indebtedness consists of borrowings under our revolving credit facility with a group of financial institutions, which are secured by substantially all of our assets. The terms of our revolving credit facility include customary events of default and covenants that limit us from taking certain actions without obtaining the consent of the lenders. In addition, our senior credit facility requires us to maintain certain financial ratios and restricts our ability to incur additional indebtedness. The restrictions and covenants in our revolving credit facility may limit our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions and may prevent us from engaging in transactions that might otherwise be considered beneficial to us. A breach of our revolving credit facility, including any inability to comply with the required financial ratios, could result in a default. In the event of any default, the lenders thereunder would be entitled to accelerate the repayment of amounts outstanding, plus accrued and unpaid interest. Moreover, these lenders would have the option to terminate any obligation to make further extensions of credit under our revolving credit facility. In the event of a default under our revolving credit facility, the lenders thereunder could also proceed to foreclose against the assets securing such obligations. In the event of a foreclosure on all or substantially all of our assets, we may not be able to continue to operate as a going concern. Outstanding letters of credit issued under our revolving credit facility would need to be replaced with other forms of collateral. 16 Table of Contents We may be unsuccessful at acquiring companies or at integrating companies that we acquire, and as a result, we may not achieve the expected benefits and our profitability could materially suffer. One of our growth strategies is to consider acquisitions of additional companies that will allow us to continue to expand our energy solutions platform and geographic footprint, when attractive opportunities arise. We expect to face competition for acquisition candidates, which may limit the number of acquisition opportunities and may lead to higher acquisition prices. We may not be able to identify, acquire or profitably manage additional businesses or to integrate successfully any acquired businesses without substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial problems. Further, acquisitions involve a number of special risks, including failure of the acquired business to achieve expected results, diversion of management’s attention, failure to retain key personnel of the acquired business and risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities, some or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may not be able to obtain the necessary acquisition financing or we may have to increase our indebtedness in order to finance an acquisition. If we finance acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, our existing stockholders may be diluted, which could adversely affect the market price of our stock. Our future business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer if we fail to implement successfully our acquisition strategy. During the ordinary course of our business, we may become subject to lawsuits or indemnity claims, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have in the past been, and may in the future be, named as a defendant in lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings during the ordinary course of our business. These actions may seek, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, workers’ compensation, employment discrimination, breach of contract, property damage, punitive damages, civil penalties or other losses, consequential damages or injunctive or declaratory relief. In addition, pursuant to our service arrangements, we generally indemnify our customers for claims related to the services we provide thereunder. Furthermore, our services are integral to the operation and performance of the electric distribution and transmission infrastructure. As a result, we may become subject to lawsuits or claims for any failure of the systems that we work on, even if our services are not the cause for such failures. In addition, we may incur civil and criminal liabilities to the extent that our services contributed to any property damage. With respect to such lawsuits, claims, proceedings and indemnities, we have and will accrue reserves in accordance with U.S. GAAP. In the event that such actions or indemnities are ultimately resolved unfavorably at amounts exceeding our accrued reserves, or at material amounts, the outcome could materially and adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, payments of significant amounts, even if reserved, could adversely affect our liquidity position. Our participation in partnerships or alliances exposes us to liability and/or harm to our reputation for failures of our partners. As part of our business, we enter into partnership or alliance arrangements. The purpose of these agreements is typically to combine skills and resources to allow for the performance of particular projects. Success on these jointly performed projects depends in large part on whether our partners satisfy their contractual obligations. We and our partners generally will be jointly and severally liable for all liabilities and obligations. If a partner fails to perform or is financially unable to bear its portion of required capital contributions or other obligations, including liabilities stemming from claims or lawsuits, we could be required to make additional investments, provide additional services or pay more than our proportionate share of a liability to make up for our partner’s shortfall. Further, if we are unable to adequately address our partner’s performance issues, the customer may terminate the project, which could result in legal liability to us, harm our reputation and reduce our profit on a project. Our failure to comply with, or the imposition of liability under, environmental laws and regulations could result in significant costs. Our facilities and operations, including fueling and truck maintenance, repair, washing and final-stage manufacturing, are subject to various environmental laws and regulations relating principally to the use, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and the discharge of pollutants into the air, water and land. Violations of these requirements, or of any permits required for our operations, could result in significant fines or penalties. We are also subject to laws and regulations that can impose liability, sometimes without regard to fault, for investigating or cleaning up contamination, as well as for damages to property or natural resources and for personal injury arising out of such contamination. Such liabilities may also be joint and several, meaning that we could be held responsible for more than our share of the liability involved, or even the entire amount. The presence of environmental contamination could also interfere with ongoing operations or adversely affect our ability to sell or lease our properties. In the event we fail to obtain or comply with any permits required for such activities, or such activities cause any environmental damage, we could incur significant liability. We have incurred costs in connection with environmental compliance, remediation and/or monitoring, and we anticipate that we will continue to do so. Discovery of additional contamination for which we are responsible, the enactment of new laws and regulations, or changes in how existing requirements are enforced, could require us to incur additional costs for compliance or subject us to unexpected liabilities. 17 Table of Contents Our results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of the impairment of goodwill or other intangibles. When we acquire a business, we record an asset called “goodwill” equal to the excess amount we pay for the business, including liabilities assumed, over the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets of the business we acquire. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we must identify and value intangible assets that we acquire in business combinations, such as customer arrangements, customer relationships and non-compete agreements, that arise from contractual or other legal rights or that are capable of being separated or divided from the acquired entity and sold, transferred, licensed, rented or exchanged. The fair value of identified intangible assets is based upon an estimate of the future economic benefits expected to result from ownership, which represents the amount at which the assets could be bought or sold in a current transaction between willing parties, that is, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. U.S. GAAP provides that goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives not be amortized, but instead must be tested at least annually for impairment, and intangible assets that have finite useful lives should be amortized over their useful lives. U.S. GAAP also provides specific guidance for testing goodwill and other non-amortized intangible assets for impairment. U.S. GAAP requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions to allocate goodwill to reporting units and to determine the fair value of reporting unit net assets and liabilities, including, among other things, an assessment of market conditions, projected cash flows, investment rates, cost of capital and growth rates, which could significantly impact the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets. Fair value is determined using a combination of the discounted cash flow, market multiple and market capitalization valuation approaches. Absent any impairment indicators, we perform our impairment tests annually during the fourth quarter, or more frequently if impairment indicators are present. We review our intangible assets with finite lives for impairment when events or changes in business conditions indicate the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable, as required by U.S. GAAP. An impairment of intangible assets with finite lives exists if the sum of the undiscounted estimated future cash flows expected is less than the carrying value of the assets. If this measurement indicates a possible impairment, we compare the estimated fair value of the asset to the net book value to measure the impairment charge, if any. We cannot predict the occurrence of certain future events that might adversely affect the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets that totaled $149.2 million at June 30, 2011. Such events include strategic decisions made in response to economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on our customer base, material negative changes in our relationships with material customers and other parties breaching their contractual obligations under non-compete agreements. Any material decline in our market capitalizations could also result in an impairment of our goodwill. Future impairments, if any, will be recognized as operating expenses. Risks associated with operating in international markets could restrict our ability to expand globally and harm our business and prospects, and we could be adversely affected by our failure to comply with the laws applicable to our foreign activities, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. We are in the process of expanding our operations internationally and expect that the number of countries that we operate in could increase over the next few years. Economic conditions, including those resulting from wars, civil unrest, acts of terrorism and other conflicts or volatility in the global markets, may adversely affect our customers, their demand for our services and their ability to pay for our services. Furthermore, we anticipate our ability to provide construction services in these countries would be heavily reliant on local workforces to perform the non-management labor. These workforces will be susceptible to local labor issues, some of which we may be unaware. Consequently, we could have difficulty performing under our agreements in these countries if the local workforce is incapable, uncooperative or unwilling to contract with us. In addition, there are numerous risks inherent in conducting our business internationally, including, but not limited to, potential instability in international markets, changes in regulatory requirements applicable to international operations, currency fluctuations in foreign countries, political, economic and social conditions in foreign countries and complex U.S. and foreign laws and treaties, including tax laws and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended (the “FCPA”). These risks could restrict our ability to provide services to international customers or to operate our international business profitably, and our overall business and results of operations could be negatively impacted by our foreign activities. 18 Table of Contents The FCPA and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions prohibit U.S.-based companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have policies and procedures designed to ensure that we, our employees and our agents comply with the FCPA and other anti-bribery laws. However, there is no assurance that such policies or procedures will protect us against liability under the FCPA or other laws for actions taken by our agents, employees and intermediaries. If we are found to be liable for FCPA violations (either due to our own acts or our inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others), we could suffer from severe criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, detecting, investigating, and resolving actual or alleged FCPA violations is expensive and can consume significant time and attention of our senior management. The market price of our stock may be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include the various risks described in this section as well as the following: • the failure of securities analysts to continue to cover our common stock or changes in financial estimates or recommendations by analysts; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions or capital commitments; • changes in market valuation or earnings of our competitors; • variations in quarterly operating results; • availability of capital; • general economic conditions; • terrorist acts; • legislation; • future sales of our common stock; and • investor perception of us and the electric utility industry. Additional factors that do not specifically relate to our company or the electric utility industry may also materially reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Shares eligible for future sale may cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. As of June 30, 2011, there were 33,665,817 shares of our common stock outstanding. Of this amount, 18,180,767 shares of common stock were freely tradeable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, by persons other than our affiliates within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Additionally, we have filed a “shelf” registration statement with the SEC pursuant to which Lindsay Goldberg, LLC and its affiliates may sell up to 8,000,000 shares, or approximately 25%, of our common stock at any time in one or more offerings. The registration statement was declared effective by the SEC on September 20, 2006. The offer or sale of all or a portion of such shares may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. We are required to pay the expenses associated with such offerings. 19 Table of Contents The concentration of our capital stock will limit other stockholders ability to influence corporate matters. Lindsay Goldberg, LLC and its affiliates (“Lindsay Goldberg”) own approximately 38% of the total voting power of our outstanding shares of common stock. In addition, J. Eric Pike, our Chairman and CEO, has the ability to control approximately 5% of the total voting power of our outstanding shares of common stock. Lindsay Goldberg and Mr. Pike also are parties to an agreement whereby Lindsay Goldberg has agreed to vote its shares in favor of Mr. Pike being a director of the Company subject to certain conditions. As a result, Lindsay Goldberg and Mr. Pike have the ability to exert substantial influence or actual control over the Company’s management and affairs and over most matters requiring action by the Company’s stockholders. The interests of Lindsay Goldberg or Mr. Pike, or their respective affiliates, may not coincide with the interests of the other holders of our common stock. This concentration of ownership also may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control otherwise favored by our other stockholders and could depress the stock price. Anti-takeover provisions of our charter and bylaws may reduce the likelihood of any potential change of control or unsolicited acquisition proposal that stockholders might consider favorable. The anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law create various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. Additionally, provisions of our charter and bylaws could deter, delay or prevent a third-party from acquiring us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. These provisions include: the authority of the board to issue preferred stock with terms as the board may determine; the absence of cumulative voting in the election of directors; limitations on who may call special meetings of stockholders; and, advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 