Item 1A Risk Factors — We expect to pursue strategic development opportunities to improve the efficiency and reliability of the transmission grid, but we cannot assure you that we will be able to initiate or complete any of these investments.” Segments We have one reportable segment consisting of our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries. Additionally, we have other subsidiaries focused primarily on business development activities and holding companies whose activities include corporate debt and equity financing and general corporate activities. A more 3 Table of Contents detailed discussion of our reportable segment including financial information about the segment is included in Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements. Operations As transmission-only companies, our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries function as conduits, moving power from generators to local distribution systems either entirely through their own systems or in conjunction with neighboring transmission systems. Third parties then transmit power through these local distribution systems to end-use consumers. The transmission of electricity by our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries is a central function to the provision of electricity to residential, commercial and industrial end-use consumers. The operations performed by our subsidiaries fall into the following categories: • asset planning; • engineering, design and construction; • maintenance; and • real time operations. Currently, IP&L performs some of the engineering, design and construction, maintenance and real time operations activities for ITC Midwest under the Transition Services Agreement and ATC performs real time operations for ITC Midwest under the Operating Agreement, both as described below. Asset Planning Our Asset Planning group uses detailed system models and long-term load forecasts to develop our system expansion capital plans. The expansion plans identify projects that address potential future reliability issues and/or produce economic savings for customers by eliminating constraints. Asset Planning works closely with MISO in the development of our annual system expansion capital plans by performing technical evaluations and detailed studies. As the regional planning authority, MISO reviews regional system improvement projects by its members, including our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries. Engineering, Design and Construction Our Engineering, Design and Construction group is responsible for design, equipment specifications, maintenance plans and project engineering for capital, operation and maintenance work. We work with outside contractors to perform some of our engineering and design and all of our construction, but retain internal technical experts that have experience with respect to the key elements of the transmission system such as substations, lines, equipment and protective relaying systems. This internal expertise allows us to effectively manage outside contractors. Maintenance We develop and track the preventive maintenance plan to promote a safe and reliable system. By performing preventive maintenance on our assets, we can minimize the need for reactive maintenance, resulting in improved reliability. ITCTransmission and METC contract with Utility Lines Construction, which is a division of Asplundh Tree Expert Co., to perform the bulk of their maintenance. The agreements provide us with access to an experienced and scalable workforce with knowledge of our system at an established rate. The agreements are scheduled to terminate on August 29, 2008 but automatically renew for additional five year terms unless terminated by either party. We have negotiated an amendment to the maintenance agreements to apply the terms of those agreements to ITC Midwest. 4 Table of Contents Real Time Operations ITCTransmission and METC Joint Control Area Operator. Under the functional control of MISO, ITCTransmission and METC operate their electricity transmission systems as a combined control area under the Michigan Electric Coordinated System (“MECS”) Control Area Agreement. The operation is performed at the operations control room in Ann Arbor, Michigan, where our employees perform the functions as the control area operator which include balancing loads and generation in order to ensure a supply of electricity to customers, monitoring and reacting to fluctuations in system frequency, and serving as the primary operational interface with internal and external interconnected entities and the regional reliability coordinator. System Operations. As part of day-to-day operations in the operations control room in Ann Arbor, Michigan, transmission system coordinators monitor the performance of the ITCTransmission and METC transmission systems continuously, using state of the art computer and communication systems to perform constant analysis to plan for contingencies that may occur and maintain security and reliability following any unplanned incidents on the system. Transmission system coordinators are also responsible for the switching and protective tagging function and taking equipment in and out of service to ensure capital construction projects and maintenance programs can be completed safely and reliably. ITC Midwest We negotiated certain operating contracts with IP&L and ATC that govern operations of the transmission system for a period of at least twelve months from the closing of the ITC Midwest acquisition in December 2007. These contracts include the IP&L Transition Services Agreement for operations services related to the 34.5 kV transmission system and the ATC Operating Agreement for operations services related to the 69 kV and above transmission system. Transmission system operations services include switching and protective tagging to facilitate capital construction projects and maintenance programs, system monitoring, contingency and security analysis, and responding to unplanned incidents on the system. Operating Contracts ITCTransmission Detroit Edison operates the electricity distribution system to which ITCTransmission’s transmission system connects. A set of three operating contracts sets forth the terms and conditions related to Detroit Edison’s and ITCTransmission’s ongoing working relationship. These contracts include the following: Master Operating Agreement. The Master Operating Agreement (the “MOA”) governs the primary day-to-day operational responsibilities of ITCTransmission and Detroit Edison and will remain in effect until terminated by mutual agreement of the parties (subject to any required FERC approvals) unless earlier terminated pursuant to its terms. The MOA identifies the control area coordination services that ITCTransmission is obligated to provide to Detroit Edison. The MOA also requires Detroit Edison to provide certain generation-based support services to ITCTransmission. Generator Interconnection and Operation Agreement. Detroit Edison and ITCTransmission entered into the Generator Interconnection and Operation Agreement (the “GIOA”) in order to establish, re-establish and maintain the direct electricity interconnection of Detroit Edison’s electricity generating assets with ITCTransmission’s transmission system for the purposes of transmitting electric power from and to the electricity generating facilities. Unless otherwise terminated by mutual agreement of the parties (subject to any required FERC approvals), the GIOA will remain in effect until Detroit Edison elects to terminate the agreement with respect to a particular unit or until a particular unit ceases commercial operation. 5 Table of Contents Coordination and Interconnection Agreement. The Coordination and Interconnection Agreement (the “CIA”) governs the rights, obligations and responsibilities of ITCTransmission and Detroit Edison regarding, among other things, the operation and interconnection of Detroit Edison’s distribution system and ITCTransmission’s transmission system, and the construction of new facilities or modification of existing facilities. Additionally, the CIA allocates costs for operation of supervisory, communications and metering equipment. The CIA will remain in effect until terminated by mutual agreement of the parties (subject to any required FERC approvals). METC Consumers Energy operates the electricity distribution system to which METC’s transmission system connects. METC is a party to a number of operating contracts with Consumers Energy that govern the operations and maintenance of its transmission system. These contracts include the following: Amended and Restated Easement Agreement. Under the Amended and Restated Easement Agreement (the “Easement Agreement”), dated as of April 29, 2002 and as further supplemented, Consumers Energy provides METC with an easement to the land, which we refer to as premises, on which a majority of METC’s transmission towers, poles, lines and other transmission facilities used to transmit electricity at voltages of at least 120 kV are located, which we refer to collectively as the facilities. Consumers Energy retained for itself the rights to, and the value of activities associated with, all other uses of the premises and the facilities covered by the Easement Agreement, such as for distribution of electricity, fiber optics, telecommunications, gas pipelines and agricultural uses. Accordingly, METC is not permitted to use the premises or the facilities covered by the Easement Agreement for any purposes other than to provide electric transmission and related services, to inspect, maintain, repair, replace and remove electric transmission facilities and to alter, improve, relocate and construct additional electric transmission facilities. The easement is further subject to the rights of any third parties that had rights to use or occupy the premises or the facilities prior to April 1, 2001 in a manner not inconsistent with METC’s permitted uses. METC pays Consumers Energy annual rent of $10.0 million, in equal quarterly installments, for the easement and related rights under the Easement Agreement. Although METC and Consumers Energy share the use of the premises and the facilities covered by the Easement Agreement, METC pays the entire amount of any rentals, property taxes, inspection fees and other amounts required to be paid to third parties with respect to any use, occupancy, operations or other activities on the premises or the facilities and is generally responsible for the maintenance of the premises and the facilities used for electricity transmission at its expense. METC also must maintain commercial general liability insurance protecting METC and Consumers Energy against claims for personal injury, death or property damage occurring on the premises or the facilities and pay for all insurance premiums. METC is also responsible for patrolling the premises and the facilities by air at its expense at least annually and to notify Consumers Energy of any unauthorized uses or encroachments discovered. METC must indemnify Consumers Energy for all liabilities arising from the facilities covered by the Easement Agreement. METC must notify Consumers Energy before altering, improving, relocating or constructing additional transmission facilities covered by the Easement Agreement. Consumers Energy may respond by notifying METC of reasonable work and design restrictions and precautions that are needed to avoid endangering existing distribution facilities, pipelines or communications lines, in which case METC must comply with these restrictions and precautions. METC has the right at its own expense to require Consumers Energy to remove and relocate these facilities, but Consumers Energy may require payment in advance or the provision of reasonable security for payment by METC prior to removing or relocating these facilities, and Consumers Energy need not commence any relocation work until an alternative right-of-way satisfactory to Consumers Energy is obtained at METC’s expense. 6 Table of Contents The term of the Easement Agreement runs through December 31, 2050 and is subject to 10 automatic 50-year renewals after that time unless METC provides one year’s notice of its election not to renew the term. Consumers Energy may terminate the Easement Agreement 30 days after giving notice of a failure by METC to pay its quarterly installment if METC does not cure the non-payment within the 30-day notice period. At the end of the term or upon any earlier termination of the Easement Agreement, the easement and related rights terminate and the transmission facilities revert to Consumers Energy. Amended and Restated Operating Agreement. Under the Amended and Restated Operating Agreement (the “Operating Agreement”), dated as of April 29, 2002, METC agrees to operate its transmission system to provide all transmission customers with safe, efficient, reliable and non-discriminatory transmission service pursuant to its tariff. Among other things, METC is responsible under the Operating Agreement for maintaining and operating its transmission system, providing Consumers Energy with information and access to its transmission system and related books and records, administering and performing the duties of control area operator (that is, the entity exercising operational control over the transmission system) and, if requested by Consumers Energy, building connection facilities necessary to permit interaction with new distribution facilities built by Consumers Energy. Consumers Energy has corresponding obligations to provide METC with access to its books and records and to build distribution facilities necessary to provide adequate and reliable transmission services to wholesale customers. Consumers Energy must cooperate with METC as METC performs its duties as control area operator, including by providing reactive supply and voltage control from generation sources or other ancillary services and reducing load. The Operating Agreement is effective through 2050 and is subject to 10 automatic 50-year renewals after that time, unless METC provides one year’s notice of its election not to renew. Amended and Restated Purchase and Sale Agreement for Ancillary Services. The Amended and Restated Purchase and Sale Agreement for Ancillary Services (the “Ancillary Services Agreement”) is dated as of April 29, 2002. Since METC does not own any generating facilities, it must procure ancillary services from third party suppliers, such as Consumers Energy. Currently, under the Ancillary Services Agreement, METC pays Consumers Energy for providing certain generation-based services necessary to support the reliable operation of the bulk power grid, such as voltage support and generation capability and capacity to balance loads and generation. METC is not precluded from procuring these ancillary services from third party suppliers when available. The Ancillary Services Agreement is subject to rolling one-year renewals starting May 1, 2003, unless terminated by either METC or Consumers Energy with six months prior written notice. Amended and Restated Distribution-Transmission Interconnection Agreement. The Amended and Restated Distribution-Transmission Interconnection Agreement (the “DT Interconnection Agreement”), dated April 29, 2002, provides for the interconnection of Consumers Energy’s distribution system with METC’s transmission system and defines the continuing rights, responsibilities and obligations of the parties with respect to the use of certain of their own and the other party’s properties, assets and facilities. METC agrees to provide Consumers Energy interconnection service at agreed-upon interconnection points, and the parties have mutual responsibility for maintaining voltage and compensating for reactive power losses resulting from their respective services. The DT Interconnection Agreement is effective so long as any interconnection point is connected to METC, unless it is terminated earlier by mutual agreement of METC and Consumers Energy. Amended and Restated Generator Interconnection Agreement. The Amended and Restated Generator Interconnection Agreement (the “Generator Interconnection Agreement”), dated as of April 29, 2002, specifies the terms and conditions under which Consumers Energy and METC maintain the interconnection of Consumers Energy’s generation resources and METC’s transmission assets. The Generator Interconnection Agreement is effective either until it is replaced by any MISO-required contract, or until mutually agreed by METC and Consumers Energy to terminate, but not later than the date that all listed generators cease commercial operation. 7 Table of Contents ITC Midwest Distribution-Transmission Interconnection Agreement. The Distribution-Transmission Interconnection Agreement (the “DTIA”) governs the rights, responsibilities and obligations of ITC Midwest and IP&L, with respect to the use of certain of their own and the other parties’ property, assets and facilities, and the construction of new facilities or modification of existing facilities. Additionally, the DTIA sets forth the terms pursuant to which the equipment and facilities and the interconnection equipment of IP&L will continue to connect ITC Midwest’s facilities through which ITC Midwest provides transmission service under the MISO Transmission and Energy Markets Tariff. The DTIA will remain in effect until terminated by mutual agreement by the parties (subject to any required FERC approvals) or as long as any interconnection point of IP&L is connected to ITC Midwest’s facilities, unless modified by written agreement of the parties. Large Generator Interconnection Agreement. ITC Midwest, IP&L and MISO entered into the Large Generator Interconnection Agreement (the “LGIA”) in order to establish, re-establish and maintain the direct electricity interconnection of IP&L’s electricity generating assets with ITC Midwest’s transmission system for the purposes of transmitting electric power from and to the electricity generating facilities. The LGIA will remain in effect until terminated by ITC Midwest or until IP&L elects to terminate the agreement if a particular unit ceases commercial operation for three consecutive years. Transition Services Agreement. The Transition Services Agreement (the “TSA”) identifies the transmission corporate administration services, the construction and maintenance services, the engineering services and the system operations services related to the 34.5 kV transmission system that IP&L agreed to provide to ITC Midwest. The TSA also requires IP&L to provide the transition design, planning and implementation relating to those services. The TSA will remain in effect for one year, with the option to extend the agreement for up to four additional six-month periods, or until terminated by mutual agreement of the parties unless earlier terminated pursuant to its terms. Subsequent to the termination of the TSA, ITC Midwest expects to perform the activities covered under the TSA. Operating Agreement. The Operating Agreement between ITC Midwest and ATC obligates ATC to provide control, operation and emergency response services as well as providing assistance in the eventual transition of those services to ITC Midwest. The services contemplated by this agreement shall only be for ITC Midwest’s transmission facilities operating at 69 kV and above. The Operating Agreement will remain in effect until May 1, 2009, unless terminated earlier pursuant to its terms, at which time ITC Midwest expects to perform the activities covered under the Operating Agreement. Regulatory Environment Regulators and public policy makers have seen the need for further investment in the transmission grid. The growth in electricity generation, wholesale power sales and consumption versus transmission investment have resulted in significant transmission constraints across the United States and increased stress on aging equipment. These problems will continue without increased investment in transmission infrastructure. Transmission system investments can also increase system reliability and reduce the frequency of power outages. Such investments can reduce transmission constraints and improve access to lower cost generation resources, resulting in a lower overall cost of delivered electricity for end-use consumers. After the 2003 blackout that affected sections of the northeastern and midwestern United States and Ontario, Canada, the Department of Energy (the “DOE”) established the Office of Electric Transmission and Distribution, focused on working with reliability experts from the power industry, state governments, and their Canadian counterparts to improve grid reliability and increase investment in the country’s electric infrastructure. In addition, the FERC has signaled its desire for substantial new investment in the transmission sector by implementing financial incentives, such as increasing the return on equity for transmission-only companies to a level that is greater than that of traditional utilities. The FERC has issued orders to promote non-discriminatory transmission access for all transmission customers. In the United States, electricity transmission assets are predominantly owned, operated and maintained by utilities that also own electricity generation and distribution assets, known as vertically integrated utilities. The FERC has recognized that the vertically integrated utility model inhibits the 8 Table of Contents provision of non-discriminatory transmission access and, in order to alleviate this potential discrimination, the FERC has mandated that all transmission systems over which it has jurisdiction must be operated in a comparable, non-discriminatory manner such that any seller of electricity affiliated with a transmission owner or operator is not provided with preferential treatment. The FERC has also indicated that independent transmission companies can play a prominent role in furthering its policy goals and has encouraged the legal and functional separation of transmission operations from generation and distribution operations. On August 8, 2005, the federal government enacted the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (the “Energy Policy Act”). In part, the Energy Policy Act required the FERC to implement rules to encourage investment in electricity transmission infrastructure and authorized the FERC to implement mandatory transmission reliability standards. In addition, the Energy Policy Act directed the DOE to investigate and designate corridors along which the construction of electricity transmission infrastructure is in the national interest, and authorizes the FERC to determine siting of transmission facilities in such corridors in certain circumstances. Effective June 2007, the FERC approved mandatory adoption of certain reliability standards and approved enforcement actions for violators, including fines of up to $1.0 million per day. The NERC was assigned the responsibility of developing and enforcing these mandatory reliability standards. We continually assess our transmission systems against standards established by the NERC and ReliabilityFirst Corporation, a regional entity under the NERC that is delegated certain authority for the purpose of proposing and enforcing reliability standards. Analysis of the transmission systems against these reliability standards has become more focused and rigorous in recent years. In addition, the FERC has finalized rules under which our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries may qualify for rate incentives to invest in transmission infrastructure. Our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries may also be eligible for federal assistance in siting of such infrastructure. Finally, the Energy Policy Act repealed the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, which was replaced by the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005. It also subjected utility holding companies to regulations of the FERC related to access to books and records, and amended Section 203 of the FPA to provide explicit authority for the FERC to review mergers and consolidations involving utility holding companies in certain circumstances. Federal Regulation As electricity transmission companies, our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries are regulated by the FERC. The FERC is an independent regulatory commission within the DOE that regulates the interstate transmission and certain wholesale sales of natural gas, the transmission of oil and oil products by pipeline, and the transmission and wholesale sale of electricity in interstate commerce. The FERC also administers accounting and financial reporting regulations and standards of conduct for the companies it regulates. In 1996, in order to facilitate open access transmission for participants in wholesale power markets, the FERC issued Order No. 888. The open access policy promulgated by the FERC in Order No. 888 was upheld in a United States Supreme Court decision issued on March 4, 2002. To facilitate open access, among other things, FERC Order No. 888 encouraged investor owned utilities to cede operational control over their transmission systems to ISOs, which are not-for-profit entities. As an alternative to ceding operating control of their transmission assets to ISOs, certain investor owned utilities began to promote the formation of for-profit transmission companies, which would assume control of the operation of the grid. In December 1999, the FERC issued Order No. 2000, which strongly encouraged utilities to voluntarily transfer operational control of their transmission systems to RTOs. RTOs, as envisioned in Order No. 2000, would assume many of the functions of an ISO, but the FERC permitted greater flexibility with regard to the organization and structure of RTOs than it had for ISOs. RTOs could accommodate the inclusion of independently owned, for-profit companies that own transmission assets within their operating structure. Independent ownership would facilitate not only the independent operation of the transmission systems but also the formation of companies with a greater financial interest in maintaining and augmenting the capacity and reliability of those systems. MISO was formed in 1996 as a voluntary association of electricity transmission owners consistent with the principles in FERC Order No. 888. Later, in response to FERC Order No. 2000, MISO evolved into a 9 Table of Contents FERC-approved RTO with an open architecture framework capable of accommodating a variety of business models including independently owned, for-profit transmission companies. MISO, in its role as an RTO, monitors electric reliability throughout much of the Midwest. MISO is responsible for coordinating the operation of the wholesale electricity transmission system and ensuring fair, non-discriminatory access to the transmission grid. State Regulation The regulatory agencies in the states where our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries’ assets are located do not have jurisdiction over rates or terms and conditions of service. However, we are subject to the regulatory oversight of various state environmental quality departments for compliance with any state environmental standards and regulations. Additionally, the state regulatory agencies where our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries’ assets are located have jurisdiction over siting of transmission facilities and related matters as described below. Michigan The Michigan Public Service Commission has jurisdiction over siting of transmission facilities. Additionally, pursuant to Michigan Public Acts 197 and 198 of 2004, ITCTransmission and METC have the right as independent transmission companies to condemn property in the state of Michigan for the purposes of building or maintaining transmission facilities. Iowa The IUB has the power of supervision over the construction, operation, and maintenance of 69 kV and above transmission facilities in Iowa by any entity, which includes the power to issue franchises. Additionally, any entity granted a franchise by the IUB is vested with the power of condemnation in Iowa to the extent the IUB approves and deems necessary for public use. IP&L is in the process of notifying the IUB that all the existing franchises have been transferred to ITC Midwest. ITC Midwest has not yet applied for any new franchises from the IUB but may do so in the future at various sites. Minnesota The MPUC has jurisdiction over the siting and routing of new transmission lines through Minnesota’s Certificate of Need Process. Transmission companies are also required to participate in the State’s Biennial Transmission Planning Process and are subject to the State’s preventive maintenance requirements. Pursuant to Minnesota law, as modified in 2006, ITC Midwest has the right as an independent transmission company to condemn property in the State of Minnesota for the purpose of building new transmission facilities. Illinois The Illinois Commerce Commission has jurisdiction over siting of new transmission lines. Missouri Because ITC Midwest is a “public utility” and an “electrical corporation” under Missouri law, the Missouri Public Service Commission has jurisdiction to determine whether ITC Midwest may operate in such capacity. In this regard, on August 30, 2007, the Missouri Public Service Commission granted ITC Midwest a certificate of public convenience and necessity to own, operate and maintain a 161 kV transmission line of approximately 9.5 miles located in Clark County, Missouri. The Missouri Public Service Commission also exercises jurisdiction with regard to other non-rate matters affecting this Missouri asset such as general safety and the transfer of the franchise or property. 10 Table of Contents Sources of Revenue See “Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Results of Operations — Operating Revenues” for a discussion of our principal sources of revenue. Seasonality Our results of operations for periods through December 31, 2006 were subject to significant seasonal variations since demand for electricity, and thus transmission load, is largely dependent on weather conditions. Our historical revenues recognized were dependent on the monthly peak loads and regulated transmission rates. Our historical revenues and operating income were typically higher in the summer months when cooling demand and network load are higher. A particularly warm or cool summer may increase or reduce demand for electricity above or below that expected, causing an increase or decrease in our historical revenues from the same period of the previous year. Under forward-looking Attachment O, which became effective for ITCTransmission and METC on January 1, 2007 and for ITC Midwest on January 1, 2008, as discussed in “Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Rate Setting and Attachment O — Forward-Looking Attachment O,” much of the seasonality in our results of operations is mitigated. The true-up mechanism contained in forward-looking Attachment O allows our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries to accrue or defer revenues to the extent that the actual net revenue requirement for the reporting period is higher or lower, respectively, than the amounts billed relating to that reporting period. Based on our revenue recognition under forward-looking Attachment O, we recognize more consistent operating revenues and net income at our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries, compared to the historical Attachment O method for each quarterly period within a given year beginning January 1, 2007 or January 1, 2008, as applicable. Monthly peak loads continue to be used for billing purposes, which continues to have a seasonal effect on our cash flows. Principal Customers Our principal transmission service customers in 2007 were Detroit Edison and Consumers Energy, which accounted for approximately 55.4% and 32.3%, respectively, of our total operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007. Our remaining revenues were generated from providing service to other entities such as alternative electricity suppliers, power marketers and other wholesale customers that provide electricity to end-use consumers and from transaction-based capacity reservations. Additionally, we expect a significant amount of total operating revenues at ITC Midwest to be collected from IP&L, its principal transmission service customer. Nearly all of our revenues are from transmission customers in the United States. Although we may be allocated revenues from time to time from Canadian entities reserving transmission over the Ontario or Manitoba interface, these revenues have not been and are not expected to be material to us. Billing MISO is responsible for billing and collection for transmission services and administers the transmission tariff in the MISO service territory. As the billing agent for our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries, MISO bills Detroit Edison, Consumers Energy, IP&L and other customers on a monthly basis and collects fees for the use of our transmission systems. MISO has implemented strict credit policies for its members, which include customers using our transmission systems. In general, if these customers do not maintain their investment grade credit rating or have a history of late payments, MISO may require them to provide MISO with a letter of credit or a cash deposit equal to the highest monthly invoiced amount over the previous 12 months. 11 Table of Contents Competition Each of our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries is the only transmission system in its respective service area and, therefore, effectively has no competitors. For our subsidiaries focused on development opportunities for capital projects in other service areas, the incumbent utilities may decide to pursue capital projects that we are pursuing. Employees As of December 31, 2007, we had 302 employees. We consider our relations with our employees to be good. The certifications of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer required by Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) rules have been filed as exhibits to this report. The unqualified certification of the Chief Executive Officer as to compliance with New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) corporate governance requirements was filed with the NYSE on July 9, 2007. Environmental Matters Our operations are subject to federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations, which impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the environment, establish standards for the management, treatment, storage, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials and of solid and hazardous wastes, and impose obligations to investigate and remediate contamination in certain circumstances. Liabilities to investigate or remediate contamination, as well as other liabilities concerning hazardous materials or contamination, such as claims for personal injury or property damage, may arise at many locations, including formerly owned or operated properties and sites where wastes have been treated or disposed of, as well as at properties currently owned or operated by us. Such liabilities may arise even where the contamination does not result from noncompliance with applicable environmental laws. Under a number of environmental laws, such liabilities may also be joint and several, meaning that a party can be held responsible for more than its share of the liability involved, or even the entire share. Environmental requirements generally have become more stringent and compliance with those requirements more expensive. We are not aware of any specific developments that would increase our costs for such compliance in a manner that would be expected to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or liquidity. Our assets and operations also involve the use of materials classified as hazardous, toxic or otherwise dangerous. Many of the properties our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries own or operate have been used for many years, and include older facilities and equipment that may be more likely than newer ones to contain or be made from such materials. Some of these properties include aboveground or underground storage tanks and associated piping. Some of them also include large electrical equipment filled with mineral oil, which may contain or previously have contained polychlorinated biphenyls (commonly known as PCBs). Our facilities and equipment are often situated close to or on property owned by others so that, if they are the source of contamination, other’s property may be affected. For example, aboveground and underground transmission lines sometimes traverse properties that we do not own, and, at some of our transmission stations, transmission assets (owned or operated by us) and distribution assets (owned or operated by our transmission customers) are commingled. Some properties in which we have an ownership interest or at which we operate are, and others are suspected of being, affected by environmental contamination. We are not aware of any claims pending or threatened against us with respect to environmental contamination, or of any investigation or remediation of contamination at any properties, that entail costs likely to materially affect us. Some facilities and properties are located near environmentally sensitive areas such as wetlands. Claims have been made or threatened against electric utilities for bodily injury, disease or other damages allegedly related to exposure to electromagnetic fields associated with electricity transmission and distribution lines. While we do not believe that a causal link between electromagnetic field exposure 12 Table of Contents and injury has been generally established and accepted in the scientific community, if such a relationship is established or accepted, the liabilities and costs imposed on our business could be significant. We are not aware of any claims pending or threatened against us for bodily injury, disease or other damages allegedly related to exposure to electromagnetic fields and electricity transmission and distribution lines that entail costs likely to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or liquidity. Filings Under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Our internet address is www.itc-holdings.com. You can access free of charge on our web site all of our reports filed pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, including our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports. These reports are available as soon as practicable after they are electronically filed with the SEC. Also on our web site are our: • Corporate Governance Guidelines; • Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; and • Committee Charters for the Audit and Finance Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee. We will also provide this information in print to any shareholder who requests it. You may also read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington DC, 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The address is http://www.sec.gov. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to Our Business Certain elements of our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries’ cost recovery through rates can be challenged, which could result in lowered rates and/or refunds of amounts previously collected and thus have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have also made certain commitments to federal and state regulators with respect to, among other things, our rates in connection with recent acquisitions (including the ITC Midwest acquisition) that could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries provide transmission service under rates regulated by the FERC. The FERC has approved our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries’ use of the rate setting formula under Attachment O, but it has not expressly approved the amount of actual capital and operating expenditures to be used in that formula. In addition, all aspects of our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries’ rates approved by the FERC, including the Attachment O rate mechanism, ITCTransmission’s, METC’s and ITC Midwest’s respective allowed 13.88%, 13.38% and 12.38% rates of return on the actual equity portion of their respective capital structures, and the data inputs provided by our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries for calculation of each year’s rate, are subject to challenge by interested parties at the FERC in a proceeding under Section 206 of the FPA. If a challenger can establish that any of these aspects are unjust, unreasonable, unduly discriminatory or preferential, then the FERC will make appropriate prospective adjustments to them and/or disallow any of our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries’ inclusion of those aspects in the rate setting formula. This could result in lowered rates and/or refunds of amounts collected after the date that a Section 206 challenge is filed. In addition, the FERC’s order approving our acquisition of METC was conditioned upon ITCTransmission and METC not recovering “merger-related costs” in their rates, as described in the order, unless a separate informational filing is submitted to the FERC. The informational filing, which could be challenged 13 Table of Contents by interested parties, would need to identify those costs and show that such costs are outweighed by the benefits of the acquisition. Determinations by ITCTransmission or METC that expenses included in Attachment O for recovery are not acquisition related costs are also subject to challenge by interested parties at the FERC. If challenged at the FERC and ITCTransmission or METC fail to show that costs included for recovery are not merger-related, this also could result in lowered rates and/or refunds of amounts collected. Under the FERC’s order approving the ITC Midwest acquisition, ITC Midwest has agreed to a hold harmless commitment in which no acquisition premium will be recovered in rates, nor will ITC Midwest recover through transmission rates any transaction-related costs that exceed demonstrated transaction-related savings for a period of five years. If during the five year period ITC Midwest seeks to recover transaction-related costs through Attachment O, ITC Midwest must make an informational filing at the FERC that identifies the transaction-related costs sought to be recovered and demonstrates that those costs are exceeded by transaction-related savings. If challenged at the FERC and ITC Midwest fails to show that transaction-related costs included for recovery do not exceed transaction-related savings, ITC Midwest could be subject to lowered rates and/or refunds of amounts previously collected. Additionally, in Iowa and Minnesota, as part of the regulatory approval process, ITC Midwest committed not to recover the first $15.0 million in transaction-related costs under any circumstances. In the Minnesota regulatory proceeding, ITC Midwest also agreed to build two construction projects intended to improve the reliability and efficiency of our electric transmission system. ITC Midwest agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts to complete these projects over the next two to four years. In the event ITC Midwest fails to meet these commitments, the allowed 12.38% rate of return on the actual equity portion of ITC Midwest’s capital structure will be reduced to 10.39% under Attachment O until such time as it completes these projects. Any of the events described above could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Approval of the ITC Midwest acquisition by state regulatory authorities in Iowa and Minnesota has been appealed. If such proceedings are decided in a manner that is unfavorable to us, all or part of the orders approving the ITC Midwest acquisition in Iowa and Minnesota could be reversed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In September 2007, the IUB issued an order declining to disapprove the ITC Midwest acquisition and terminating the review docket, and the ITC Midwest acquisition was accordingly deemed to be approved by operation of law upon the subsequent expiration in September 2007 of the prescribed statutory period. The IUB order recognized that regulatory approvals in other jurisdictions were required, and stated that material changes in the ITC Midwest acquisition imposed by such approvals could require the submission of a new proposal for IUB review if such changes materially altered the basis for the IUB order. On October 19, 2007, the Iowa Office of Consumer Advocate filed in the Iowa District Court for Polk County a petition for judicial review asking the court to reverse, vacate, and remand to the IUB the IUB’s decision declining to disapprove the ITC Midwest acquisition. The case is scheduled for oral argument and final submission in May 2008, and thus the outcome of such case is unknown at this time. A decision by the District Court is expected in 2008, and is subject to appeal to the Supreme Court of Iowa. The Minnesota Office of the Attorney General has filed a Petition for Reconsideration and Request for Stay of the MPUC’s December 18, 2007 approval of the ITC Midwest acquisition and the outcome of such proceeding is unknown at this time. The Attorney General’s Petition is currently pending before the MPUC. At a meeting held on February 14, 2008, the MPUC granted the Petition for the Rehearing for the purpose of further considering the merits of the petition. There is currently no scheduled date for further decision by the MPUC. The decision of the MPUC, including resolution of the rehearing issue, is appealable to the Minnesota Court of Appeals. If such proceedings are decided in a manner that is unfavorable to us, all or part of the orders approving the ITC Midwest acquisition in Iowa and Minnesota could be reversed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 14 Table of Contents Our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries’ actual capital expenditures may be lower than planned, which would decrease expected rate base and therefore our revenues. Each of our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries’ rate base is determined in part by additions to property, plant and equipment when placed in service. We expect to pursue strategic development opportunities and make significant investments to improve the efficiency and reliability of the transmission grid. We expect ITCTransmission to invest approximately $1 billion in its system over the seven-year period beginning January 1, 2005. We expect METC to invest approximately $600 million in its system over the seven-year period beginning January 1, 2007. We expect ITC Midwest to invest approximately $1 billion over the seven to ten years beginning January 1, 2008 across its electric transmission system. These estimates of potential investment opportunities are based primarily on foreseeable transmission needs and general transmission construction costs, not necessarily on particular project cost estimates. In addition, as part of the regulatory proceedings approving the ITC Midwest acquisition, ITC Midwest has made several investment commitments relating to their transmission systems, including completing projects anticipated to cost at least $100 million over the next five years, dedicated to reducing transmission constraints, as well as investing at least an additional $250 million in other projects over the next five years. However, any investments we make in these initiatives could be significantly lower than the opportunities we are seeking to develop today. Reasons their capital expenditures and future capital expenditures of other subsidiaries may be lower than expected include, among others, the impact of weather conditions, union strikes, labor shortages, material and equipment prices and availability, our ability to obtain financing for such expenditures, if necessary, limitations on the amount of construction that can be undertaken on our system at any one time or regulatory approvals for reasons relating to environmental, siting, regional planning, cost recovery and other issues or as a result of legal proceedings and variances between estimated and actual costs of construction contracts awarded. Our ability to engage in construction projects resulting from pursuing these initiatives is also subject to significant uncertainties, including the factors discussed above, and will depend on obtaining any necessary regulatory and other approvals for the project and for us to initiate construction, our achieving status as the builder of the project in some circumstances and other factors. Therefore, we cannot assure you as to the actual level of investment we may achieve as a result of these potential strategic development opportunities. If our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries’ capital expenditures and the resulting in-service property, plant and equipment are lower than anticipated for any reason, our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries will have a lower than anticipated rate base thus causing their revenue requirements and future earnings to be potentially lower than anticipated. The regulations to which we are subject may limit our ability to raise capital and/or pursue acquisitions, development opportunities or other transactions or may subject us to liabilities. Each of our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries is a “public utility” under the FPA and, accordingly, is subject to regulation by the FERC. Approval of the FERC is required under Section 203 of the FPA for a disposition or acquisition of regulated public utility facilities, either directly or indirectly through a holding company. Such approval may also be required to acquire securities in a public utility. Section 203 of the FPA also provides the FERC with explicit authority over utility holding companies’ purchases or acquisitions of, and mergers or consolidations with, a public utility. Finally, each of our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries must also seek approval by the FERC under Section 204 of the FPA for issuances of its securities. In addition, we are subject to state and/or local regulations relating to, among other things, facility siting. If we fail to comply with these local regulations, we may incur liabilities for such failure. Changes in federal energy laws, regulations or policies could impact cash flows and could reduce the dividends we may be able to pay our stockholders. Attachment O, the rate formula mechanism used by our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries to calculate their respective annual revenue requirements, will be used by our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries for that purpose until and unless the FERC determines that such rate formula is unjust and 15 Table of Contents unreasonable or that another mechanism is more appropriate. Such determinations could result from challenges initiated at the FERC by interested parties, by the FERC on its own initiative in a proceeding under Section 206 of the FPA or by a successful application initiated by ITCTransmission, METC or ITC Midwest under Section 205 of the FPA. Although transmission costs constitute a relatively small portion of end-use consumers’ overall electricity costs, end-use consumers and entities supplying electricity to end-use consumers may attempt to influence government and/or regulators to change the rate setting methodologies that apply to our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries, particularly if rates for delivered electricity increase substantially. Each of our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries is regulated by the FERC as a “public utility” under the FPA and is a transmission owner in MISO. We cannot predict whether the approved rate methodologies for ITCTransmission, METC or ITC Midwest will be changed. In addition, the U.S. Congress periodically considers enacting energy legislation that could shift new responsibilities to the FERC, modify provisions of the FPA or provide the FERC or another entity with increased authority to regulate transmission matters. We cannot predict whether, and to what extent, our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries may be affected by any such changes in federal energy laws, regulations or policies in the future. If the network load or point-to-point transmission service on our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries’ transmission systems is lower than expected, the timing of collection of our revenues would be delayed. If the network load on our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries’ transmission systems is lower than expected due to weather, a weak economy, changes in the nature or composition of the transmission grids of our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries and surrounding areas, poor transmission quality of neighboring transmission systems, or for any other reason, the timing of the collection of our revenue requirement would likely be delayed until such circumstances are adjusted through the true-up mechanism in our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries’ formula rate mechanism. Each of our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries depends on its primary customer for a substantial portion of its revenues, and any material failure by those primary customers to make payments for transmission services would adversely affect our revenues and our ability to service our debt obligations and affect our ability to pay dividends. ITCTransmission derives a substantial portion of its revenues from the transmission of electricity to Detroit Edison’s local distribution facilities. Payments from Detroit Edison, billed by MISO, constituted approximately 90.3% of ITCTransmission’s total operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007 and are expected to constitute the majority of ITCTransmission’s revenues for the foreseeable future. Detroit Edison is rated BBB/stable and Baa1/stable by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services and Moody’s Investors Services, Inc., respectively. Similarly, Consumers Energy accounted for approximately 82.5% of METC’s revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007, and is expected to constitute the majority of METC’s revenues for the foreseeable future. Consumers Energy is rated BBB-/stable and Baa1/stable by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services and Moody’s Investors Service, Inc., respectively. Further, IP&L is ITC Midwest’s primary electric transmission service customer and is expected to constitute the majority of ITC Midwest’s revenues for the foreseeable future. IP&L is rated BBB+/stable and A3/stable by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services and Moody’s Investors Service, Inc., respectively. Any material failure by Detroit Edison, Consumers Energy or IP&L to make payments for transmission services would adversely affect our revenues and our ability to service our debt obligations and could reduce the dividends we may be able to pay our stockholders. METC does not own the majority of the land on which its transmission assets are located. Additionally, a significant amount of the land on which ITCTransmission’s and ITC Midwest’s assets are located is subject to easements, mineral rights and other similar encumbrances and a significant amount of ITCTransmission’s and ITC Midwest’s other property consists of 16 Table of Contents easements. As a result, our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries must comply with the provisions of various easements, mineral rights and other similar encumbrances, which may adversely impact their ability to complete construction projects in a timely manner. METC does not own the majority of the land on which its electric transmission assets are located. Instead, under the provisions of an Easement Agreement with Consumers Energy, METC pays annual rent of $10.0 million to Consumers Energy in exchange for rights-of-way, leases, fee interests and licenses which allow METC to use the land on which its transmission lines are located. Under the terms of the Easement Agreement, METC’s easement rights could be eliminated if METC fails to meet certain requirements, such as paying contractual rent to Consumers Energy in a timely manner. Additionally, a significant amount of the land on which ITCTransmission’s and ITC Midwest’s assets are located is subject to easements, mineral rights and other similar encumbrances and a significant amount of ITCTransmission’s and ITC Midwest’s other property consists of easements. As a result, they must comply with the provisions of various easements, mineral rights and other similar encumbrances, which may adversely impact their ability to complete their construction projects in a timely manner. Deregulation and/or increased competition may adversely affect our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries’ customers, or Detroit Edison’s, Consumers Energy’s and IP&L’s customers, which in turn may reduce our revenues. The business of ITCTransmission’s and METC’s primary customers is subject to regulation that has undergone substantial change in accordance with Michigan Public Act 141 of 2000, which mandates the implementation of retail access, as well as changes in federal regulatory requirements. The utility industry has also been undergoing dramatic structural change for several years, resulting in increasing competitive pressures on electric utility companies, such as Detroit Edison, Consumers Energy and IP&L. The manufacturing sector in Detroit Edison’s, Consumers Energy’s and IP&L’s service territories has also been subject to increasing competitive pressures. As a result, demand for electricity transmission service by manufacturing companies in our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries’ service territories may be negatively impacted. These factors may create greater risks to the stability of Detroit Edison’s, Consumers Energy’s and IP&L’s revenues and may affect Detroit Edison’s, Consumers Energy’s and IP&L’s ability to make payments for transmission service to MISO and thus to ITCTransmission, METC and ITC Midwest, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations which, in turn, could affect our ability to meet our debt obligations and could reduce the dividends we may be able to pay our stockholders. Hazards associated with high-voltage electricity transmission may result in suspension of our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries’ operations or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. The operations of our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries are subject to the usual hazards associated with high-voltage electricity transmission, including explosions, fires, inclement weather, natural disasters, mechanical failure, unscheduled downtime, equipment interruptions, remediation, chemical spills, discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases and other environmental risks. The hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and environmental damage, and may result in suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. We maintain property and casualty insurance, but we are not fully insured against all potential hazards incident to our business, such as damage to poles, towers and lines or losses caused by outages. Our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries are subject to environmental regulations and to laws that can give rise to substantial liabilities from environmental contamination. The operations of our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, which impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the environment, establish standards for the management, treatment, storage, transportation and disposal of 17 Table of Contents hazardous materials and of solid and hazardous wastes, and impose obligations to investigate and remediate contamination in certain circumstances. Liabilities to investigate or remediate contamination, as well as other liabilities concerning hazardous materials or contamination such as claims for personal injury or property damage, may arise at many locations, including formerly owned or operated properties and sites where wastes have been treated or disposed of, as well as at properties currently owned or operated by our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries. Such liabilities may arise even where the contamination does not result from noncompliance with applicable environmental laws. Under a number of environmental laws, such liabilities may also be joint and several, meaning that a party can be held responsible for more than its share of the liability involved, or even the entire share. Environmental requirements generally have become more stringent in recent years, and compliance with those requirements more expensive. ITCTransmission and METC have incurred expenses in connection with environmental compliance, and we anticipate that each will continue to do so in the future. Failure to comply with the extensive environmental laws and regulations applicable to each could result in significant civil or criminal penalties and remediation costs. Our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries’ assets and operations also involve the use of materials classified as hazardous, toxic, or otherwise dangerous. Some of our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries’ facilities and properties are located near environmentally sensitive areas such as wetlands and habitats of endangered or threatened species. In addition, certain properties in which ITCTransmission has an ownership interest or at which our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries operate are, and others are suspected of being, affected by environmental contamination. Compliance with these laws and regulations, and liabilities concerning contamination or hazardous materials, may adversely affect our costs and, therefore, our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, claims have been made or threatened against electric utilities for bodily injury, disease or other damages allegedly related to exposure to electromagnetic fields associated with electricity transmission and distribution lines. We cannot assure you that such claims will not be asserted against us or that, if determined in a manner adverse to our interests, would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries are subject to various regulatory requirements. Violations of these requirements, whether intentional or unintentional, may result in penalties that, under some circumstances, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries are required to comply with various regulations, including reliability standards established by the NERC, which acts as the nation’s Electric Reliability Organization approved by the FERC in accordance with Section 215 of the FPA. These standards address operation and planning of the bulk power system, including requirements in respect of real-time transmission operations, emergency operations, vegetation management and personnel training. Failure to comply with these requirements can result in monetary penalties as well as non-monetary sanctions. Monetary penalties vary based on an assigned risk factor for each potential violation, the severity of the violation and various other circumstances, such as whether the violation was intentional or concealed, whether there are repeated violations, the degree of the violator’s cooperation in investigating and remediating the violation and the presence of a compliance program. Penalty amounts range from $1,000 to a maximum of $1.0 million per day, depending on the severity of the violation. Non-monetary sanctions include potential limitations on the violator’s activities or operation and placing the violator on a watchlist for major violators. Despite our best efforts to comply and the implementation of a compliance program intended to ensure reliability, there can be no assurance that violations will not occur that would result in material penalties or sanctions. If any of our operating subsidiaries were to violate the NERC reliability standards, even unintentionally, in any material way, any penalties or sanctions imposed against us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 18 Table of Contents Acts of war, terrorist attacks and threats or the escalation of military activity in response to such attacks or otherwise may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Acts of war, terrorist attacks and threats or the escalation of military activity in response to such attacks or otherwise may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations in unpredictable ways, such as increased security measures and disruptions of markets. Strategic targets, such as energy related assets, including, for example, our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries’ transmission facilities and Detroit Edison’s, Consumers Energy’s and IP&L’s generation and distribution facilities, may be at risk of future terrorist attacks. In addition to the increased costs associated with heightened security requirements, such events may have an adverse effect on the economy in general. A lower level of economic activity could result in a decline in energy consumption, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to ITC Midwest’s acquisition of IP&L’s electric transmission assets The purchase price for IP&L’s electric transmission assets is subject to adjustment and, therefore, the final purchase price cannot be determined at this time. Under the asset sale agreement relating to the ITC Midwest acquisition, the purchase price for the assets we acquired from IP&L was $783.1 million. However, the purchase price can be adjusted until six months after the acquisition. Such adjustment will depend primarily on the amounts of net transmission plant investment (including construction work in progress) and net liabilities transferred to ITC Midwest at closing. As a result, it is not yet possible to ascertain the final purchase price. At December 31, 2007, we have recorded $5.4 million of estimated additional purchase price. We may encounter difficulties integrating IP&L’s electric transmission assets into our business and may not fully attain or retain, or achieve within a reasonable time frame, expected strategic objectives and other expected benefits of the ITC Midwest acquisition. We expect to realize strategic and other benefits as a result of the ITC Midwest acquisition. Our ability to realize these benefits or successfully integrate IP&L’s electric transmission assets into our business, however, is subject to certain risks and uncertainties, including, among others: • the challenges of separating IP&L’s electric transmission assets into stand-alone ownership by ITC Midwest and integrating these assets with our business; • the costs of integrating IP&L’s electric transmission assets may be higher than we expect and may require more resources, capital expenditures and management attention than anticipated; • delay of capital investments in IP&L’s transmission system due to uncertainty around the timing of procurement of construction materials; • employees important to the operation of IP&L’s electric transmission assets may decide not to continue to be employed by us; and • we may be unable to anticipate or manage risks that are unique to the historical business of IP&L’s electric transmission assets, including those related to its workforce, customer demographics and information systems. Our failure to manage these risks, or other risks related to the ITC Midwest acquisition that are not presently known to us, could prevent us from realizing the expected benefits of the acquisition and also may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, which could cause the value of our common stock to decline. 19 Table of Contents If one or both of ITC Midwest’s operating agreements with IP&L and ATC were terminated early, ITC Midwest may face a shortage of labor or replacement contractors to provide the services formerly provided by IP&L and ATC. ITC Midwest has negotiated certain operating service contracts with IP&L and ATC that govern the operation of its transmission system. The Transition Services Agreement with IP&L identifies the transmission corporate administration services, the construction and maintenance services, the engineering services and the system operations services related to the 34.5 kV transmission system that IP&L is required to provide to ITC Midwest. Under the Operating Agreement with ATC, ATC will provide operations services for a portion of the ITC Midwest transmission system operating at 69 kV and above. The Transition Services Agreement will remain in effect for one year, with the option to extend the agreement for up to four additional six-month periods, or until terminated by mutual agreement of the parties unless earlier terminated pursuant to its terms. The Operating Agreement with ATC will remain in effect until May 1, 2009 unless earlier terminated pursuant to its terms. While these agreements are in place, ITC Midwest plans to hire and train its own employees and to begin contracting with other non-utility owning vendors to provide these services with the eventual goal of replacing IP&L and ATC entirely. If the FERC were to terminate either of these agreements prematurely, or prohibit their renewal, or if these agreements were terminated or failed to be renewed for any other reason at any time when ITC Midwest is unprepared for such termination, ITC Midwest may face difficulty finding a qualified replacement work force to provide such services. Our pro forma financial information is not necessarily representative of the results we would have achieved and does not purport to represent what our consolidated results of operations would have been had ITC Midwest’s acquisition of the electric transmission business of IP&L occurred on the dates presented. Our pro forma financial information is not necessarily representative of the results we would have achieved and does not purport to represent what our consolidated results of operations would have been had ITC Midwest’s acquisition of the electric transmission business of IP&L occurred on the dates presented in Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements, or to project what they might be in any future period, due primarily to the following limitations and uncertainties relating to the basis for and preparation of that information. Full financial statements for the electric transmission business of IP&L are not available. As permitted by generally accepted accounting principles and the applicable rules of the SEC, we used the historical Statements of Revenues and Direct Expenses of the electric transmission business of IP&L to develop the pro forma financial information included in this report. These are not full financial statements but were prepared on a carve-out basis and represent the acquired assets and assumed liabilities in the acquisition, and have been prepared using a format permitted by the SEC in satisfaction of Rule 3-05 of Regulation S-X. Prior to ITC Midwest’s acquisition, the electric transmission business of IP&L was a component of IP&L’s integrated electric operations included within IP&L’s utility operations. IP&L’s electric transmission business had no separate legal status. Preparation of full financial statements was therefore impracticable because the business was being carved out of the larger integrated electric operations of IP&L. IP&L had not accounted for the business as a separate entity, subsidiary, division, or segment of IP&L’s operations, IP&L had not managed the electric transmission business as a stand-alone business, and IP&L had not maintained separate stand-alone financial statements for the business. IP&L’s electric transmission business has no operating history as a stand-alone business. Therefore, its historical financial information is not necessarily representative of the results we would have achieved during the periods presented as a stand-alone company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. 20 Table of Contents The historical financial information used to develop pro forma financial information does not reflect the financial results of operations we would have achieved during the periods presented or those results we will achieve in the future. This is primarily a result of the following factors: • The historical financial results of IP&L’s electric transmission business reflects allocations of corporate expenses from IP&L. Those allocations may be different from the comparable expenses we would have incurred had the acquired electric transmission assets been operated as a stand-alone business due to a number of factors, including the likelihood that we will not be able to realize the benefits of operating as an integrated utility achieved by IP&L. Additionally, the historical financial results of IP&L’s electric transmission business exclude certain items, such as the allowance for equity funds used during construction. • Significant changes may occur in the cost structure, management, financing and business operations of the electric transmission assets ITC Midwest acquired from IP&L as a result of having to operate as a subsidiary of ITC Holdings. These changes could result in increased costs associated with the loss of synergies, stand-alone costs for services currently provided by IP&L, and the need for additional personnel to perform services currently provided by IP&L and ATC. In addition, we have negotiated certain operating contracts with IP&L and ATC that govern operation of the transmission system for at least 12 months from the closing date of the acquisition. • The ratemaking principles applicable to IP&L differ in certain respects from those used by the FERC, which regulates ITC Midwest. IP&L’s retail electric base rates in Iowa and Minnesota were based on historical test years with IP&L’s retail electric base rates developed using a cost-of-service approach. The cost-of-service approach was used to develop IP&L’s revenue requirement which was comprised of operating expenses (direct and indirect), depreciation, taxes, interest, and a rate-of-return allowance on IP&L’s investment in rate base assets. Therefore, to prepare financial data for IP&L’s electric transmission business, a portion of these expenses was allocated across IP&L’s operations. The ratemaking principles used by IP&L’s state regulators differ in certain respects from those used by the FERC, which regulates ITC Midwest. Accordingly, the electric transmission revenues used to develop pro forma financial information are not indicative of revenues that we may earn. In reviewing our pro forma financial information included in Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements, we urge you to carefully consider the basis on which said information was prepared and presented. For an additional risk related to the ITC Midwest acquisition, see “Risk Factors — Risks Related to our Business — Approval of the ITC Midwest acquisition by state regulatory authorities in Iowa and Minnesota has been appealed. If such proceedings are decided in a manner that is unfavorable to us, all or part of the orders approving the ITC Midwest acquisition in Iowa and Minnesota could be reversed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.” Risks Related to Our Structure ITC Holdings is a holding company with no operations, and unless we receive dividends or other payments from our subsidiaries, we will be unable to pay dividends and fulfill our other cash obligations. As a holding company with no business operations, ITC Holdings’ assets consist primarily of the stock and membership interests in our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries and any other subsidiaries ITC Holdings may have, deferred tax assets relating primarily to federal income tax NOLs and cash on hand. Our only sources of cash to pay dividends to our stockholders are dividends and other payments received by us from time to time from our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries and any other subsidiaries we may have and the proceeds raised from the sale of our debt and equity securities. Each of our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries, however, is legally distinct from us and has no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to make 21 Table of Contents funds available to us for the payment of dividends to ITC Holdings’ stockholders or otherwise. The ability of each of our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries and any other subsidiaries we may have to pay dividends and make other payments to us is subject to, among other things, the availability of funds, after taking into account capital expenditure requirements, the terms of its indebtedness, applicable state laws and regulations of the FERC and the FPA. While we currently intend to continue to pay quarterly dividends on our common stock, we have no obligation to do so. The payment of dividends is within the absolute discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, working capital requirements, capital expenditure requirements, financial condition, contractual restrictions, anticipated cash needs and other factors that our board deems relevant. Risks Relating to Our Financial Leverage We are highly leveraged and our dependence on debt may limit our ability to fulfill our debt obligations and/or to obtain additional financing. We are highly leveraged. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $2.2 billion of consolidated indebtedness, consisting of various outstanding debt securities and borrowings under various credit facilities. In addition, we had a total of $290.0 million in revolving credit facility commitments at December 31, 2007. This capital structure can have several important consequences, including, but not limited to, the following: • If future cash flows are insufficient, we may not be able to make principal or interest payments on our debt obligations, which could result in the occurrence of an event of default under one or more of those debt instruments. • If future cash flows are insufficient, we may need to incur further indebtedness in order to make the capital expenditures and other expenses or investments planned by us. • Our indebtedness will have the general effect of reducing our flexibility to react to changing business and economic conditions insofar as they affect our financial condition and, therefore, may pose substantial risk to our shareholders. A substantial portion of the dividends and payments in lieu of taxes we receive from our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries will be dedicated to the payment of interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available for the payment of dividends on our common stock. • In the event that we are liquidated, any of our senior or subordinated creditors and any senior or subordinated creditors of our subsidiaries will be entitled to payment in full prior to any distributions to the holders of shares of our common stock. • Our revolving credit facilities mature in March 2012 for ITC Holdings, ITCTransmission and METC and in January 2013 for ITC Midwest. Our ability to secure additional financing prior to or after that time, if needed, may be substantially restricted by the existing level of our indebtedness and the restrictions contained in our debt instruments. We may incur substantial indebtedness in the future. The incurrence of additional indebtedness would increase the leverage-related risks described here. Certain provisions in our debt instruments limit our financial flexibility. Our debt instruments include senior notes, secured notes, first mortgage bonds and revolving credit facilities containing numerous financial and operating covenants that place significant restrictions on, among other things, our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • engage in sale and lease-back transactions; • create liens or other encumbrances; 22 Table of Contents • enter into mergers, consolidations, liquidations or dissolutions, or sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; • create and acquire subsidiaries; and • pay dividends or make distributions on our and ITCTransmission’s capital stock and METC’s and ITC Midwest’s member capital. The revolving credit facilities, METC’s senior secured notes and ITC Holdings’ senior notes require us to meet certain financial ratios. Our ability to comply with these and other requirements and restrictions may be affected by changes in economic or business conditions, results of operations or other events beyond our control. A failure to comply with the obligations contained in any of our debt instruments could result in acceleration of the related debt and the acceleration of debt under other instruments evidencing indebtedness that may contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. Adverse changes in our credit ratings may negatively affect us. Our ability to access capital markets is important to our ability to operate our business. Increased scrutiny of the energy industry and the impact of regulation, as well as changes in our financial performance could result in credit agencies reexamining our credit ratings. A downgrade in our credit ratings could restrict or discontinue our ability to access capital markets at attractive rates and increase our borrowing costs. A rating downgrade could also increase the interest we pay under our revolving credit facilities. ITC Holdings’ public offering in October 2006 caused us to undergo an “ownership change” for purposes of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”) which will limit the amount of our federal income tax NOLs that we may use to reduce our tax liability in a given period. As of December 31, 2007, we have estimated federal income tax NOLs of $116.4 million. These federal income tax NOLs may be used to offset future taxable income and thereby reduce our U.S. federal income taxes otherwise payable. Section 382 of the Code imposes an annual limit on the ability of a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” to use its federal income tax NOLs to reduce its tax liability. As a result of the ownership change in October 2006, we are not able to use our pre-ownership change federal income tax NOLs in excess of the limitation imposed by Section 382 for each annual period. Included in the total federal income tax NOLs above are approximately $38.5 million of federal income tax NOLs included in our 2006 consolidated tax return for the entities acquired in the METC acquisition. We will be subject to annual limitations on the use of such federal income tax NOLs as a result of the acquisition of all of the indirect ownership interests in METC by us, as well as limitations resulting from prior transactions by the acquired entities. We have not recorded a valuation allowance relating to our federal income tax NOLs. In the event it becomes more likely than not that any portion of the federal income tax NOLs will expire unused, we would be required to recognize an expense to establish a valuation allowance in the period in which the determination is made. If the expense is significant, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Provisions in our Articles of Incorporation and bylaws, Michigan corporate law and our debt agreements may impede efforts by our shareholders to change the direction or management of our company. Our Articles of Incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that might enable our management to resist a proposed takeover. These provisions could discourage, delay or prevent a change of control or an acquisition at a price that our shareholders may find attractive. These provisions also may discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our shareholders to elect directors and take other corporate 23 Table of Contents actions. The existence of these provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions include: • a requirement that special meetings of our shareholders may be called only by our board of directors, the chairman of our board of directors, our president or the holders of a majority of the shares of our outstanding common stock; • advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals and nominations; and • the authority of our board to issue, without shareholder approval, common or preferred stock, including in connection with our implementation of any shareholders rights plan, or “poison pill.” In addition, our revolving credit agreements provide that a change in a majority of ITC Holdings’ board of directors that is not approved by the current ITC Holdings directors or acquiring beneficial ownership of 35% or more of ITC Holdings outstanding common shares will constitute a default under those agreements. Provisions in our Articles of Incorporation restrict market participants from voting or owning 5% or more of the outstanding shares of our capital stock. ITCTransmission was granted favorable rate treatment by the FERC based on its independence from market participants. The FERC defines a “market participant” to include any person or entity that, either directly or through an affiliate, sells or brokers electricity, or provides ancillary services to MISO. An affiliate, for these purposes, includes any person or entity that directly or indirectly owns, controls or holds with the power to vote 5% or more of the outstanding voting securities of a market participant. To help ensure that we and our subsidiaries will remain independent of market participants, our Articles of Incorporation impose certain restrictions on the ownership and voting of shares of our capital stock by market participants. In particular, the Articles of Incorporation provide that we are restricted from issuing any shares of capital stock or recording any transfer of shares if the issuance or transfer would cause any market participant, either individually or together with members of its “group” (as defined in SEC beneficial ownership rules), to beneficially own 5% or more of any class or series of our capital stock. Additionally, if a market participant, together with its group members, acquires beneficial ownership of 5% or more of any series of the outstanding shares of our capital stock, such market participant or any shareholder who is a member of a group including a market participant will not be able to vote or direct or control the votes of shares representing 5% or more of any series of our outstanding capital stock. Finally, to the extent a market participant, together with its group members, acquires beneficial ownership of 5% or more of the outstanding shares of any series of our capital stock, our Articles of Incorporation allow our board of directors to redeem any shares of our capital stock so that, after giving effect to the redemption, the market participant, together with its group members, will cease to beneficially own 5% or more of that series of our outstanding capital stock. Future sales of our shares could depress the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately 42,916,852 shares of common stock outstanding. Of those shares, 40,281,843 shares, were freely tradable. Approximately 2,635,009 shares outstanding as of December 31, 2007 are eligible for resale from time to time, subject to the contractual restrictions on sales referred to above and to the volume, manner of sale and other conditions of Rule 144. In addition, as of December 31, 2007, 1,105,092 shares were available for future issuance under our 2003 Stock Purchase and Option Plan, Employee Stock Purchase Plan and 2006 Long Term Incentive Plan, including 2,503,272 shares issuable upon the exercise of outstanding stock options, of which 1,364,826 were vested. In the future, we may issue our common stock in connection with investments or repayment of our debt. The amount of such common stock issued could constitute a material portion of our then outstanding common stock. 24 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 