Item 1A. Risk Factors The risk factors listed in this section and other factors noted herein or incorporated by reference could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. The following risk factors, in addition to the information discussed elsewhere herein, should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our business: We are and will continue to be subject to conflicts of interest resulting from Meadow Valley Parent Corp.’s control of us, and we do not have any procedures in place to resolve such conflicts. Meadow Valley Parent Corp. (“Parent”) owns approximately 69% of our outstanding common stock and may be able to control our business. Parent also wholly owns Meadow Valley and Meadow Valley’s chief executive officer and chief administrative officer also serve us in similar capacities. We also sell a small amount of concrete to Meadow Valley. These relationships could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when Meadow Valley’s officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for Meadow Valley and us. These decisions could result in reducing our profitability. Also, the appearance of conflicts, even if such conflicts do not materialize, might adversely affect the investing public’s perception of us. We do not have any formal procedure for resolving such conflicts of interest. We are at risk of a change in control of ownership. Based on a Schedule 13D filed by Parent on February 5, 2009, Parent pledged 100% of the shares of Common Stock it owns in Ready Mix (the “Ready Mix Shares”) to LBC Credit Partners II, L.P., as agent (“Agent”), as security for a portion of the debt financing obtained in connection with the recent acquisition of Meadow Valley by affiliates of Insight Equity Holdings LLC pursuant to a pledge agreement dated February 2, 2009 (the “Pledge Agreement”). The pledge of the Ready Mix Shares includes all rights associated with the ownership of the Ready Mix Shares, including the right to receive or the power to direct the receipt of dividends from, or the proceeds from the sale of, the Ready Mix Shares. In the event the Agent exercises its rights under the Pledge Agreement to take ownership of the Ready Mix Shares, a change in control of the Company could occur. At any given time, one or a limited number of customers may account for a large percentage of our revenue, which means that we face a greater risk of loss of revenue and a reduction in our profitability if we lose a major customer or if a major customer faces financial difficulties. At times a small number of customers have generated a large percentage of our revenue in any given period. For the year ended December 31, 2008, our largest customer provided approximately 9.1% of our revenue and our ten largest customers collectively provided approximately 49.4% of our revenue. In 2007, one customer provided approximately 7.7% of our revenue and our ten largest customers collectively provided approximately 47.8% of our revenue. In 2006, one customer provided approximately 9.2% of our revenue and our ten largest customers collectively provided approximately 44.2% of our revenue. Companies that constitute our largest customers vary from year to year, and our revenue from individual customers fluctuates each year. If we lose one or more major customers or if any of these customers face financial difficulties, our revenue could be substantially reduced, thereby reducing our profitability. We may not meet our minimum purchase agreement obligations. Our purchase agreement obligations require us to purchase a minimum quantity of aggregate product in any given purchase year. If we fail to meet this minimum requirement the purchase agreement obligator has the right to charge us the equivalent of the required minimum quantity purchases, as stipulated in the agreement, less our actual purchases without providing any additional product. We may lose business to competitors who underbid us or who have greater resources to supply larger jobs than we have, and we may be otherwise unable to compete favorably in our highly competitive industry. 10 Our competitive position in a given market depends largely on the location and operating costs of our ready mix concrete plants and prevailing prices in that market. Price is a primary competitive factor among suppliers for small or simple jobs, principally in residential construction, while timeliness of delivery and consistency of quality and service, in addition to price, are the principal competitive factors among suppliers for large or complex jobs. Our competitors range from small, owner-operated private companies offering simple mixes to subsidiaries or operating units of large, vertically integrated cement manufacturing and concrete products companies. Our vertically integrated competitors generally have greater manufacturing, financial and marketing resources than we, providing them with a competitive advantage. Competitors having lower operating costs than we do or having the financial resources to enable them to accept lower margins than we do will have a competitive advantage over us for larger jobs which are particularly price-sensitive. Competitors having greater financial resources than we do to invest in new mixer trucks or build plants in new areas also have competitive advantages over us. We depend on third parties for cement, fly ash, aggregates and other supplies essential to operate our business. The loss of any such suppliers could impact our ability to provide concrete to, or otherwise service our customers, as well as our ability to retain and attract customers. We rely on third parties to provide us with supplies, including cement and other raw materials, necessary for our operations. We cannot be sure that these relationships will continue in the future or that raw materials will continue to be available to us when required and at a reasonable price. If shortages of cement or other raw materials were to occur, we might be unable to meet our supply commitments to our customers which would severely impact our ability to retain and attract new customers. Our operating results may vary significantly from reporting period to reporting period and may be adversely affected by the cyclical nature of the ready mix concrete markets we serve, causing significant reductions in our revenue. Our business and the business environment which supports the ready mix concrete business can be cyclical in nature. As a result, our revenue may be significantly reduced as a result of declines in construction in Nevada and Arizona caused by: • the level of residential and commercial construction in Nevada and Arizona; • the availability of funds for public or infrastructure construction from local, state and federal sources; • changes in interest rates; • availability of credit; • variations in the margins of jobs performed during any particular quarter; and • the budgetary spending patterns of our customers. As a result, our operating results in any particular quarter may not be indicative of the results that you can expect for any other quarter or for the entire year. Furthermore, negative trends in the ready mix concrete industry or in our markets could reduce our revenue, thereby decreasing our gross profit and reducing our profitability. Our business is seasonal, causing quarterly variations in our revenue and earnings, which in turn could negatively affect our stock price. The construction industry, even in Arizona and Nevada, is seasonal in nature, often as a result of adverse weather conditions, with significantly stronger construction activity in the second and third calendar quarters, than in the first and fourth quarters. Such seasonality or unanticipated inclement weather could cause our quarterly revenue and earnings to vary significantly. Because of our relatively small size, even a short acceleration or delay in filling customers’ orders can have a material adverse effect on our financial results in a given reporting period. Our varying quarterly results may result in a decline in our common stock price if investors react to our reporting operating results which are less favorable than in a prior period or than those anticipated by investors or the financial community generally. 11 Governmental regulations covering the ready mix concrete industry, including environmental regulations, may result in increases in our operating costs and capital expenditures and decreases in our earnings. A wide range of federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations apply to our production of ready mix concrete, including: • zoning regulations affecting plant locations; • restrictions on street and highway usage; • US Department of Transportation regulations; • limitations on noise levels; and • regulation of health, safety and environmental matters. In many instances, we must have various certificates, permits or licenses in order to conduct our business. Our failure to maintain required certificates, permits or licenses or to comply with applicable governmental requirements could result in substantial fines or possible revocation of our authority to conduct some of our operations. Governmental requirements that impact our ready mix concrete operations also include those relating to air quality, solid waste management and water quality. These requirements are complex and subject to frequent change. They impose strict liability in some cases without regard to negligence or fault and expose us to liability for the conduct of, or conditions caused by others, or for our acts that may otherwise have complied with all applicable requirements when we performed them. Our compliance with amended, new or more stringent requirements, stricter interpretations of existing requirements or the future discovery of environmental conditions may require us to make material expenditures we currently do not anticipate, thereby decreasing our earnings, if any. There are special risks related to our operating and internal growth strategies that could adversely affect our operating practices and overall profitability. One key component of our strategy is to operate our businesses on a decentralized basis, with local Phoenix and Las Vegas metro-wide management retaining responsibility for day-to-day operations, profitability and the internal growth of the local business. If we do not maintain proper overall internal controls, this decentralized operating strategy could result in inconsistent operating and financial practices and our overall profitability could be adversely affected. Our internal growth will also be affected by local management’s ability to: • attract new customers and retain existing customers; • differentiate our company in a competitive market by successfully emphasizing the quality of our products and our service; • hire and retain mixer truck drivers and other specialized employees; and • place orders for new equipment on a timely basis to meet production needs. The departure of key personnel could disrupt our business and limit our growth, as this growth requires the hiring of new local senior managers and executive officers. We depend on the continued efforts of our executive officers, some of whom are executive officers of Meadow Valley, and, in many cases, on our local senior management. In addition, any future growth will impose significant additional responsibilities on members of our senior management and executive officers. The success of our operations, which is based upon a decentralized management, will depend on recruiting new local senior level managers and officers, and we cannot be certain that we can recruit and retain such additional managers and officers. To the extent we are unable to attract and retain qualified management personnel, our growth could be limited and our business could be disrupted, resulting in decreased revenue and increased costs associated with the loss of experienced managers responsible for generating new clients, marketing and cost containment efforts. If some or all of our employees unionize, it could result in increases in our operating costs, disruptions in our business and decreases in our earnings. 12 If our employees were to become represented by a labor union, we could experience disruptions of our operations caused by labor strikes or slow downs as well as higher ongoing labor costs, which could increase our overall costs to do business. In addition, the coexistence of union and non-union employees on particular jobs may lead to conflicts between these employees or impede our ability to integrate our operations efficiently. Labor relations matters affecting our suppliers could increase our costs, disrupt our supply chains and adversely impact our business. Our operations are subject to special hazards that may cause personal injury or property damage, subjecting us to liabilities and possible losses which may not be covered by insurance. Operating mixer trucks, particularly when loaded, exposes our drivers and others to traffic hazards. Our drivers are subject to the usual hazards associated with providing services on construction sites, while our plant personnel are subject to the hazards associated with moving and storing large quantities of heavy raw materials. Operating hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, plant and equipment and environmental damage. We maintain insurance coverage in amounts and against the risks we believe are consistent with industry practice, but this insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses or liabilities we may incur in our operations. Our insurance policies are subject to varying levels of deductibles. Losses up to our deductible amounts will be accrued based upon our estimates of the ultimate liability for claims incurred and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported. However, insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties, the number of incidents not reported and the effectiveness of our safety program. If we were to experience insurance claims or costs above our estimates, we might also be required to use working capital to satisfy these claims rather than using the working capital to maintain or expand our operations. We may incur material costs and losses as a result of claims that our products do not meet regulatory requirements or contractual specifications. One of the services we provide to our customers is the formulation of specific mix designs for ready mix concrete that meet building code or other regulatory requirements and contractual specifications for durability, compressive strength, weight-bearing capacity and other characteristics. If we fail or are unable to provide products meeting these requirements and specifications, material claims may arise against us and our reputation could be damaged. Additionally, if a significant uninsured or non-indemnified mix design or product-related claim is resolved against us in the future, that resolution may increase our costs and reduce our profitability and cash flows. Our revenue attributable to public works projects could be negatively impacted by a decrease or delay in governmental spending. Our business depends to some extent on the level of federal, state and local spending on public works projects in our markets. Reduced levels of governmental funding for public works projects or delays in that funding could significantly reduce our revenue and thereby reduce our cash flow and profitability. Meadow Valley Parent Corp. beneficially owns a significant number of shares of our common stock which will have an impact on all major decisions on which our shareholders may vote and which may discourage an acquisition of the Company. Meadow Valley Parent Corp. (“Parent”) currently owns 69.4% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Parent will have the ability to significantly impact virtually all corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, including the following actions: • election of our directors; • the amendment of our organizational documents; • the merger of our company or the sale of our assets or other corporate transactions; and • controlling the outcome of any other matter submitted to the security holders for vote. The interests of Parent may differ from the interests of our other shareholders. Further, Parent’s beneficial stock ownership may discourage potential investors from investing in shares of our common stock due to the lack of influence they could have on our business decisions, which in turn could reduce our stock price. 13 The application of the “penny stock” rules could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and increase your transaction costs to sell those shares. When the trading price of our common stock is below $5.00 per share, the open-market trading of our common stock will be subject to the “penny stock” rules. The “penny stock” rules impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally those with assets in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000 or $300,000 together with their spouse). For transactions covered by these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchase of securities and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction before the purchase. Additionally, for any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the broker-dealer must deliver, before the transaction, a disclosure schedule prescribed by the SEC relating to the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must disclose the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities. Finally, monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information on the limited market in penny stocks. These additional burdens imposed on broker-dealers may restrict the ability or decrease the willingness of broker-dealers to sell the common stock, and may result in decreased liquidity for our common stock and increased transaction costs for sales and purchases of our common stock as compared to other securities. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings and do not expect to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. Failure to maintain adequate general liability, commercial and product liability insurance could subject us to adverse financial results. Any general, commercial and/or product liability claim which is not covered by such policy, or is in excess of the limits of liability of such policy, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our general liability, product liability, and commercial insurance on reasonable terms. If we fail to implement effective internal controls required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to remedy any material weaknesses in our internal controls that we may identify or to obtain the attestation required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, such failure could result in material misstatements in our financial statements, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires management of public companies to develop and implement internal controls over financial reporting and evaluate the effectiveness thereof, and the independent auditors to attest to the effectiveness of such internal controls and the evaluation performed by management. We have not yet been required to obtain the independent auditor attestation required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any failure to complete our assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting, to remediate any material weaknesses that we may identify or to implement new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure also could adversely affect the results of the periodic management evaluations of our internal controls and, in the case of a failure to remediate any material weaknesses that we may identify, would adversely affect our ability to obtain the annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting that are required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Inadequate internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. 14 Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control even if the change in control would be beneficial to our shareholders. In addition to the ownership of a significant amount of the Company’s outstanding common stock by Parent, our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our Company, even if it were beneficial to our shareholders to do so. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Among other things, these provisions: • authorize the issuance of preferred stock that can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior shareholder approval and deter or prevent a takeover attempt; and • do not allow cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of shareholders to elect director candidates. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 15 