Risk Factors — Our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries’ actual capital expenditures may be lower than planned, which would decrease expected rate base and therefore our revenues. In addition, we expect to invest in strategic development opportunities to improve the efficiency and reliability of the transmission grid, but we cannot assure you that we will be able to initiate or complete any of these investments.” Current Transmission Systems We expect to invest approximately $1.5 billion from 2011 through 2015 at our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries in order to maintain and replace the current transmission infrastructure, enhance system integrity and reliability and accommodate load growth. 4 Table of Contents Generator Interconnections We expect to invest approximately $1.0 billion from 2011 through 2015 to develop and build transmission infrastructure to support generator interconnections. In 2010, ITC received the initial MISO approval of the Thumb Loop Project located in ITCTransmission’s region. The Thumb Loop Project is a 140-mile, double-circuit 345 kV transmission line and three 345 kV substations that will serve as the backbone of the transmission system needed to accommodate future wind development projects in the Michigan counties of Tuscola, Huron, Sanilac and St. Clair. Based on the anticipated growth of generating resources, we also foresee the need to construct additional transmission facilities that will provide interconnection opportunities for those wind facilities. The backbone transmission network, transmission for wind interconnection and for interconnection of other generating facilities may provide additional investment opportunities. Development Projects We expect to invest approximately $1.4 billion from 2011 through 2015 to construct our portions of various development projects that we are currently advancing. We are pursuing strategic development opportunities for transmission construction related to building regional transmission facilities, primarily to improve overall grid reliability, lower electricity congestion, enhance competitive markets and facilitate interconnections of new generating resources, including wind generation and other renewable resources. We have pursued the opportunity to invest in two projects in Kansas, through ITC Great Plains, known as the Spearville-Knoll-Axtell transmission project (the “KETA Project”) and the Kansas V-Plan Project transmission project running from Spearville substation to Medicine Lodge, Kansas. ITC Great Plains has established a formula rate for these two projects and other projects within the SPP region. In addition, in 2009, we announced the Green Power Express project, consisting of a network of transmission lines that would facilitate the movement of power from the wind-abundant areas in the Dakotas, Minnesota and Iowa to Midwest load centers that demand clean, renewable energy. Portions of the Green Power Express project fall within the service territory of ITC Midwest. Based on proposals by RTOs, including MISO and the SPP, we are exploring additional strategic opportunities to upgrade the transmission grid within the MISO and SPP regions and surrounding regions with a backbone transmission network, as well as other transmission investment opportunities. Segments We have one reportable segment consisting of our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries. Additionally, we have other subsidiaries focused primarily on business development activities and a holding company whose activities include corporate debt and equity financings and general corporate activities. A more detailed discussion of our reportable segment, including financial information about the segment, is included in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements. Operations As transmission-only companies, our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries function as conduits, allowing for power from generators to be transmitted to local distribution systems either entirely through their own systems or in conjunction with neighboring transmission systems. Third parties then transmit power through these local distribution systems to end-use consumers. The transmission of electricity by our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries is a central function to the provision of electricity to residential, commercial and industrial end-use consumers. The operations performed by our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries fall into the following categories: • asset planning; • engineering, design and construction; 5 Table of Contents • maintenance; and • real time operations. Asset Planning Our Asset Planning group uses detailed system models and long-term load forecasts to develop our system expansion capital plans. The expansion plans identify projects that would address potential future reliability issues and/or produce economic savings for customers by eliminating constraints. Asset Planning works closely with MISO and SPP in the development of our system expansion capital plans by performing technical evaluations and detailed studies. As the regional planning authorities, MISO and SPP approve regional system improvement plans which include projects to be constructed by their members, including our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries. Engineering, Design and Construction Our Engineering, Design and Construction group is responsible for design, equipment specifications, maintenance plans and project engineering for capital, operation and maintenance work. We work with outside contractors to perform some of our engineering and design and all of our construction, but retain internal technical experts who have experience with respect to the key elements of the transmission system such as substations, lines, equipment and protective relaying systems. Maintenance We develop and track preventive maintenance plans to promote safe and reliable systems. By performing preventive maintenance on our assets, we can minimize the need for reactive maintenance, resulting in improved reliability. Our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries contract with Utility Lines Construction, which is a division of Asplundh Tree Expert Co., to perform the majority of their maintenance. The agreements provide us with access to an experienced and scalable workforce with knowledge of our system at an established rate. The agreements are scheduled to terminate on August 29, 2013, but automatically renew for additional five year terms unless terminated by either party. Real Time Operations System Operations. From our operations facility in Novi, Michigan, transmission system operators continuously monitor the performance of the transmission systems of our MISO Regulated Operating Subsidiaries, using software and communication systems to perform analysis to plan for contingencies and maintain security and reliability following any unplanned events on the system. Transmission system operators are also responsible for the switching and protective tagging function, taking equipment in and out of service to ensure capital construction projects and maintenance programs can be completed safely and reliably. Similar system operations services for ITC Great Plains will be provided as new transmission lines are placed in service. Local Balancing Authority Operator. Under the functional control of MISO, ITCTransmission and METC operate their electric transmission systems as a combined Local Balancing Authority (“LBA”) area, known as the Michigan Electric Coordinated Systems (“MECS”). From the operations facility in Novi, Michigan, our employees perform the LBA functions as outlined in MISO’s Balancing Authority Agreement. These functions include actual interchange data administration and verification and MECS LBA area emergency procedure implementation and coordination. ITC Midwest and ITC Great Plains are not responsible for LBA functions for their respective assets. 6 Table of Contents Operating Contracts Our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries have various operating contracts, including numerous interconnection agreements with generation and transmission providers that address terms and conditions of interconnection. The following significant agreements exist at our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries: ITCTransmission Detroit Edison operates the electric distribution system to which ITCTransmission’s transmission system connects. A set of three operating contracts sets forth the terms and conditions related to Detroit Edison’s and ITCTransmission’s ongoing working relationship. These contracts include the following: Master Operating Agreement. The Master Operating Agreement (the “MOA”), dated as of February 28, 2003, governs the primary day-to-day operational responsibilities of ITCTransmission and Detroit Edison and will remain in effect until terminated by mutual agreement of the parties (subject to any required FERC approvals) unless earlier terminated pursuant to its terms. The MOA identifies the control area coordination services that ITCTransmission is obligated to provide to Detroit Edison. The MOA also requires Detroit Edison to provide certain generation-based support services to ITCTransmission. Generator Interconnection and Operation Agreement. Detroit Edison and ITCTransmission entered into the Generator Interconnection and Operation Agreement (the “GIOA”), dated as of February 28, 2003, in order to establish, re-establish and maintain the direct electricity interconnection of Detroit Edison’s electricity generating assets with ITCTransmission’s transmission system for the purposes of transmitting electric power from and to the electricity generating facilities. Unless otherwise terminated by mutual agreement of the parties (subject to any required FERC approvals), the GIOA will remain in effect until Detroit Edison elects to terminate the agreement with respect to a particular unit or until a particular unit ceases commercial operation. Coordination and Interconnection Agreement. The Coordination and Interconnection Agreement (the “CIA”), dated as of February 28, 2003, governs the rights, obligations and responsibilities of ITCTransmission and Detroit Edison regarding, among other things, the operation and interconnection of Detroit Edison’s distribution system and ITCTransmission’s transmission system, and the construction of new facilities or modification of existing facilities. Additionally, the CIA allocates costs for operation of supervisory, communications and metering equipment. The CIA will remain in effect until terminated by mutual agreement of the parties (subject to any required FERC approvals). METC Consumers Energy operates the electric distribution system to which METC’s transmission system connects. METC is a party to a number of operating contracts with Consumers Energy that govern the operations and maintenance of its transmission system. These contracts include the following: Amended and Restated Easement Agreement. Under the Amended and Restated Easement Agreement (the “Easement Agreement”), dated as of April 29, 2002 and as further supplemented, Consumers Energy provides METC with an easement to the land, which we refer to as premises, on which a majority of METC’s transmission towers, poles, lines and other transmission facilities used to transmit electricity at voltages of at least 120 kV are located, which we refer to collectively as the facilities. Consumers Energy retained for itself the rights to, and the value of activities associated with, all other uses of the premises and the facilities covered by the Easement Agreement, such as for distribution of electricity, fiber optics, telecommunications, gas pipelines and agricultural uses. Accordingly, METC is not permitted to use the premises or the facilities covered by the Easement Agreement for any purposes other than to provide electric transmission and related services, to inspect, maintain, repair, replace and remove electric transmission facilities and to alter, improve, relocate and construct additional electric transmission facilities. The easement is further subject to the 7 Table of Contents rights of any third parties that had rights to use or occupy the premises or the facilities prior to April 1, 2001 in a manner not inconsistent with METC’s permitted uses. METC pays Consumers Energy annual rent of $10.0 million, in equal quarterly installments, for the easement and related rights under the Easement Agreement. Although METC and Consumers Energy share the use of the premises and the facilities covered by the Easement Agreement, METC pays the entire amount of any rentals, property taxes, inspection fees and other amounts required to be paid to third parties with respect to any use, occupancy, operations or other activities on the premises or the facilities and is generally responsible for the maintenance of the premises and the facilities used for electric transmission at its expense. METC also must maintain commercial general liability insurance protecting METC and Consumers Energy against claims for personal injury, death or property damage occurring on the premises or the facilities and pay for all insurance premiums. METC is also responsible for patrolling the premises and the facilities by air at its expense at least annually and to notify Consumers Energy of any unauthorized uses or encroachments discovered. METC must indemnify Consumers Energy for all liabilities arising from the facilities covered by the Easement Agreement. METC must notify Consumers Energy before altering, improving, relocating or constructing additional transmission facilities covered by the Easement Agreement. Consumers Energy may respond by notifying METC of reasonable work and design restrictions and precautions that are needed to avoid endangering existing distribution facilities, pipelines or communications lines, in which case METC must comply with these restrictions and precautions. METC has the right at its own expense to require Consumers Energy to remove and relocate these facilities, but Consumers Energy may require payment in advance or the provision of reasonable security for payment by METC prior to removing or relocating these facilities, and Consumers Energy need not commence any relocation work until an alternative right-of-way satisfactory to Consumers Energy is obtained at METC’s expense. The term of the Easement Agreement runs through December 31, 2050 and is subject to 10 automatic 50-year renewals after that time unless METC provides one year’s notice of its election not to renew the term. Consumers Energy may terminate the Easement Agreement 30 days after giving notice of a failure by METC to pay its quarterly installment if METC does not cure the non-payment within the 30-day notice period. At the end of the term or upon any earlier termination of the Easement Agreement, the easement and related rights terminate and the transmission facilities revert to Consumers Energy. Amended and Restated Operating Agreement. Under the Amended and Restated Operating Agreement (the “Operating Agreement”), dated as of April 29, 2002, METC agrees to operate its transmission system to provide all transmission customers with safe, efficient, reliable and non-discriminatory transmission service pursuant to its tariff. Among other things, METC is responsible under the Operating Agreement for maintaining and operating its transmission system, providing Consumers Energy with information and access to its transmission system and related books and records, administering and performing the duties of control area operator (that is, the entity exercising operational control over the transmission system) and, if requested by Consumers Energy, building connection facilities necessary to permit interaction with new distribution facilities built by Consumers Energy. Consumers Energy has corresponding obligations to provide METC with access to its books and records and to build distribution facilities necessary to provide adequate and reliable transmission services to wholesale customers. Consumers Energy must cooperate with METC as METC performs its duties as control area operator, including by providing reactive supply and voltage control from generation sources or other ancillary services and reducing load. The Operating Agreement is effective through 2050 and is subject to 10 automatic 50-year renewals after that time, unless METC provides one year’s notice of its election not to renew. Amended and Restated Purchase and Sale Agreement for Ancillary Services. The Amended and Restated Purchase and Sale Agreement for Ancillary Services (the “Ancillary Services 8 Table of Contents Agreement”) is dated as of April 29, 2002. Since METC does not own any generating facilities, it must procure ancillary services from third party suppliers, such as Consumers Energy. Currently, under the Ancillary Services Agreement, METC pays Consumers Energy for providing certain generation-based services necessary to support the reliable operation of the bulk power grid, such as voltage support and generation capability and capacity to balance loads and generation. METC is not precluded from procuring these ancillary services from third party suppliers when available. The Ancillary Services Agreement is subject to rolling one-year renewals starting May 1, 2003, unless terminated by either METC or Consumers Energy with six months prior written notice. Amended and Restated Distribution-Transmission Interconnection Agreement. The Amended and Restated Distribution-Transmission Interconnection Agreement (the “DT Interconnection Agreement”), dated April 29, 2002 and amended most recently effective as of September 1, 2010, provides for the interconnection of Consumers Energy’s distribution system with METC’s transmission system and defines the continuing rights, responsibilities and obligations of the parties with respect to the use of certain of their own and the other party’s properties, assets and facilities. METC agrees to provide Consumers Energy interconnection service at agreed-upon interconnection points, and the parties have mutual responsibility for maintaining voltage and compensating for reactive power losses resulting from their respective services. The DT Interconnection Agreement is effective so long as any interconnection point is connected to METC, unless it is terminated earlier by mutual agreement of METC and Consumers Energy. Amended and Restated Generator Interconnection Agreement. The Amended and Restated Generator Interconnection Agreement (the “Generator Interconnection Agreement”), dated as of April 29, 2002 and amended most recently effective as of April 22, 2010, specifies the terms and conditions under which Consumers Energy and METC maintain the interconnection of Consumers Energy’s generation resources and METC’s transmission assets. The Generator Interconnection Agreement is effective either until it is replaced by any MISO-required contract, or until mutually agreed by METC and Consumers Energy to terminate, but not later than the date that all listed generators cease commercial operation. ITC Midwest IP&L operates the electric distribution system to which ITC Midwest’s transmission system connects. ITC Midwest is a party to a number of operating contracts with IP&L that govern the operations and maintenance of its transmission system. These contracts include the following: Distribution-Transmission Interconnection Agreement. The Distribution-Transmission Interconnection Agreement (the “DTIA”), dated as of December 17, 2007, governs the rights, responsibilities and obligations of ITC Midwest and IP&L, with respect to the use of certain of their own and the other parties’ property, assets and facilities, and the construction of new facilities or modification of existing facilities. Additionally, the DTIA sets forth the terms pursuant to which the equipment and facilities and the interconnection equipment of IP&L will continue to connect ITC Midwest’s facilities through which ITC Midwest provides transmission service under the MISO Transmission and Energy Markets Tariff. The DTIA will remain in effect until terminated by mutual agreement by the parties (subject to any required FERC approvals) or as long as any interconnection point of IP&L is connected to ITC Midwest’s facilities, unless modified by written agreement of the parties. Large Generator Interconnection Agreement. ITC Midwest, IP&L and MISO entered into the Large Generator Interconnection Agreement (the “LGIA”), dated as of December 20, 2007, in order to establish, re-establish and maintain the direct electricity interconnection of IP&L’s electricity generating assets with ITC Midwest’s transmission system for the purposes of transmitting electric power from and to the electricity generating facilities. The LGIA will remain in effect until terminated by ITC Midwest or until IP&L elects to terminate the agreement if a particular unit ceases commercial operation for three consecutive years. 9 Table of Contents Operations Services Agreement For 34.5 kV Transmission Facilities. ITC Midwest and IP&L entered into the Operations Services Agreement for 34.5 kV Transmission Facilities (the “OSA”), effective as of January 1, 2011, under which IP&L performs certain operations functions for ITC Midwest’s 34.5 kV transmission system on behalf of ITC Midwest. The OSA will remain in full force and effect until December 31, 2015 and will extend automatically from year to year thereafter until terminated by either party upon not less than one year prior written notice to the other party. ITC Great Plains Amended and Restated Maintenance Agreement. Mid-Kansas Electric Company LLC (“Mid-Kansas”) and ITC Great Plains have entered into a Maintenance Agreement (the “Mid-Kansas Agreement”), dated as of August 24, 2010, pursuant to which Mid-Kansas has agreed to perform various field operations and maintenance services related to the ITC Great Plains Elm Creek and Flat Ridge Substations, which ITC Great Plains has purchased from Mid-Kansas. The Mid-Kansas Agreement has an initial term of ten years and automatic ten-year renewals unless terminated (1) due to a breach by the non-terminating party following notice and failure to cure, (2) by mutual consent of the parties, or (3) by ITC Great Plains under certain limited circumstances. Services must continue to be provided for at least six months subsequent to the termination date in any case. Regulatory Environment Many regulators and public policy makers support the need for further investment in the transmission grid. The growth in electricity generation, wholesale power sales and consumption combined with historically inadequate transmission investment have resulted in significant transmission constraints across the United States and increased stress on aging equipment. These problems will continue without increased investment in transmission infrastructure. Transmission system investments can also increase system reliability and reduce the frequency of power outages. Such investments can reduce transmission constraints and improve access to lower cost generation resources, resulting in a lower overall cost of delivered electricity for end-use consumers. After the 2003 blackout that affected sections of the Northeastern and Midwestern United States and Ontario, Canada, the Department of Energy (the “DOE”) established the Office of Electric Transmission and Distribution, focused on working with reliability experts from the power industry, state governments, and their Canadian counterparts to improve grid reliability and increase investment in the country’s electric infrastructure. In addition, the FERC has signaled its desire for substantial new investment in the transmission sector by implementing various financial and other incentives. The FERC has also issued orders to promote non-discriminatory transmission access for all transmission customers. In the United States, electric transmission assets are predominantly owned, operated and maintained by utilities that also own electricity generation and distribution assets, known as vertically integrated utilities. The FERC has recognized that the vertically-integrated utility model inhibits the provision of non-discriminatory transmission access and, in order to alleviate this potential discrimination, the FERC has mandated that all transmission systems over which it has jurisdiction must be operated in a comparable, non-discriminatory manner such that any seller of electricity affiliated with a transmission owner or operator is not provided with preferential treatment. The FERC has also indicated that independent transmission companies can play a prominent role in furthering its policy goals and has encouraged the legal and functional separation of transmission operations from generation and distribution operations. On August 8, 2005, the Energy Policy Act was enacted, which requires the FERC to implement mandatory electric transmission reliability standards to be enforced by an Electric Reliability Organization. Effective June 2007, the FERC approved mandatory adoption of certain reliability standards and approved enforcement actions for violators, including fines of up to $1.0 million per day. The NERC was assigned the responsibility of developing and enforcing these mandatory reliability standards. We continually assess our transmission systems against these reliability standards established by the NERC, as well as the standards of applicable regional entities under the NERC that have been delegated certain authority for 10 Table of Contents the purpose of proposing and enforcing reliability standards. Finally, the Energy Policy Act repealed the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, which was replaced by the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005. It also subjected utility holding companies to regulations of the FERC related to access to books and records, and amended Section 203 of the FPA to provide explicit authority for the FERC to review mergers and consolidations involving utility holding companies in certain circumstances. Federal Regulation As electric transmission companies, our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries are regulated by the FERC. The FERC is an independent regulatory commission within the DOE that regulates the interstate transmission and certain wholesale sales of natural gas, the transmission of oil and oil products by pipeline, and the transmission and wholesale sale of electricity in interstate commerce. The FERC also administers accounting and financial reporting regulations and standards of conduct for the companies it regulates. In 1996, in order to facilitate open access transmission for participants in wholesale power markets, the FERC issued Order No. 888. The open access policy promulgated by the FERC in Order No. 888 was upheld in a United States Supreme Court decision State of New York vs. FERC, issued on March 4, 2002. To facilitate open access, among other things, FERC Order No. 888 encouraged investor owned utilities to cede operational control over their transmission systems to ISOs, which are not-for-profit entities. As an alternative to ceding operating control of their transmission assets to ISOs, certain investor-owned utilities began to promote the formation of for-profit transmission companies, which would assume control of the operation of the grid. In December 1999, the FERC issued Order No. 2000, which strongly encouraged utilities to voluntarily transfer operational control of their transmission systems to RTOs. RTOs, as envisioned in Order No. 2000, would assume many of the functions of an ISO, but the FERC permitted greater flexibility with regard to the organization and structure of RTOs than it had for ISOs. RTOs could accommodate the inclusion of independently owned, for-profit companies that own transmission assets within their operating structure. Independent ownership would facilitate not only the independent operation of the transmission systems but also the formation of companies with a greater financial interest in maintaining and augmenting the capacity and reliability of those systems. RTOs such as MISO and SPP monitor electric reliability and are responsible for coordinating the operation of the wholesale electric transmission system and ensuring fair, non-discriminatory access to the transmission grid. Revenue Requirement Calculations and Cost Sharing for Projects with Regional Benefits The cost based formula rates used by our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries continue to evolve to include revenue requirement calculations for various types of projects. Network revenues continue to be the largest component of revenues recovered through our formula rates. However, regional cost sharing revenues are growing as a result of projects that have been identified by MISO or SPP as having regional benefits, and therefore eligible for regional cost recovery under their tariff. Separate calculations of revenue requirement are performed for projects that have been approved for regional cost sharing and certain of these revenue requirements are subject to an annual true-up. The separate calculations of revenue requirement impact only which parties ultimately pay for the transmission services related to these projects and not our financial results. We have projects that are eligible for regional cost sharing under Attachment FF of the MISO tariff, such as certain network upgrade projects and Multi-Value Projects (“MVPs”), which include the Thumb Loop Project. The FERC accepted MISO’s MVP filing in 2010. Additionally, certain projects at ITC Great Plains are eligible for recovery through a region-wide charge in the SPP tariff: the KETA Project, which was part of the balanced portfolio of projects approved by SPP in 2009 and the Kansas V-Plan Project, which is subject to SPP’s highway/byway cost allocation. The FERC approved SPP’s highway/byway cost allocation methodology in 2010. These projects are described in more detail in “Item 7 Management’s 11 Table of Contents Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Capital Project Updates and Other Recent Developments.” State Regulation The regulatory agencies in the states where our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries’ assets are located do not have jurisdiction over rates or terms and conditions of service. However, they typically have jurisdiction over siting of transmission facilities and related matters as described below. Additionally, we are subject to the regulatory oversight of various state environmental quality departments for compliance with any state environmental standards and regulations. ITCTransmission and METC Michigan The MPSC has jurisdiction over the siting of transmission facilities. Additionally, pursuant to Michigan Public Acts 197 and 198 of 2004, ITCTransmission and METC have the right as independent transmission companies to condemn property in the state of Michigan for the purposes of building or maintaining transmission facilities. ITCTransmission and METC are also subject to the regulatory oversight of the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality, the Michigan Department of Natural Resources and certain local authorities for compliance with all environmental standards and regulations. ITC Midwest Iowa Iowa Code ch. 478 provides that the IUB has the power of supervision over the construction, operation, and maintenance of transmission facilities in Iowa by any entity, which includes the power to issue franchises. Iowa Code ch. 478 further provides that any entity granted a franchise by the IUB is vested with the power of condemnation in Iowa to the extent the IUB approves and deems necessary for public use. A city has the power, pursuant to Iowa Code ch. 364, to grant a franchise to erect, maintain, and operate transmission facilities within the city, which franchise may regulate the conditions required and manner of use of the streets and public grounds of the city and may confer the power to appropriate and condemn private property. ITC Midwest also is subject to the regulatory oversight of certain state agencies (including the Iowa Department of Natural Resources) and certain local authorities with respect to the issuance of environmental, highway, railroad, and similar permits. Minnesota The MPUC has jurisdiction over the siting and routing of new transmission lines or upgrades of existing lines through Minnesota’s Certificate of Need and Route Permit Processes. Transmission companies are also required to participate in the State’s Biennial Transmission Planning Process and are subject to the state’s preventative maintenance requirements. Pursuant to Minnesota law, ITC Midwest has the right as an independent transmission company to condemn property in the State of Minnesota for the purpose of building new transmission facilities. ITC Midwest is also subject to the regulatory oversight of the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency, the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources, the MPUC in conjunction with the Department of Commerce/Office of Energy Security, and certain local authorities for compliance with applicable environmental standards and regulations. 12 Table of Contents Illinois The ICC exercises jurisdiction over siting of new transmission lines through its requirements for Certificates of Public Convenience and Necessity and Right-Of-Way acquisition that apply to construction of new or upgraded facilities. ITC Midwest also is subject to the regulatory oversight of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, the Illinois Department of Natural Resources, the Illinois Pollution Control Board and certain local authorities for compliance with all environmental standards and regulations. Missouri Because ITC Midwest is a “public utility” and an “electrical corporation” under Missouri law, the MOPSC has jurisdiction to determine whether ITC Midwest may operate in such capacity. In this regard, on August 30, 2007, the MOPSC granted ITC Midwest a certificate of public convenience and necessity to own, operate and maintain a 161 kV transmission line of approximately 9.5 miles located in Clark County, Missouri which connects the substation in Keokuk, Iowa with Ameren Energy Generating Company’s transmission substation near Wayland, Missouri. The MOPSC also exercises jurisdiction with regard to other non-rate matters affecting this Missouri asset such as transmission substation construction, general safety and the transfer of the franchise or property. ITC Midwest is also subject to the regulatory oversight of the Missouri Department of Natural Resources for compliance with all environmental standards and regulations relating to this transmission line. ITC Great Plains Kansas ITC Great Plains is a “public utility” in Kansas and an “electric utility” pursuant to state statutes. The KCC issued an order approving the issuance of a limited certificate of convenience to ITC Great Plains for the purposes of building, owning and operating SPP transmission projects in Kansas. In addition to its certificate authority, the KCC has jurisdiction over the siting of electric transmission lines. ITC Great Plains is also subject to the regulatory oversight of the Kansas Department of Health and Environment for compliance with all environmental standards and regulations relating to the construction phase of any transmission line. Oklahoma On September 11, 2008, ITC Great Plains received approval from the OCC to operate in Oklahoma, pursuant to Oklahoma Statutes as an electric public utility providing only transmission services. The OCC does not exercise jurisdiction over the siting of any transmission lines. ITC Great Plains may be subject to the regulatory oversight of Oklahoma Department of Environmental Quality for compliance with environmental standards and regulations relating to construction of proposed transmission lines. ITC Great Plains does not currently own or operate transmission facilities in Oklahoma, but is constructing an approximately 19-mile 345 kV transmission line and associated facilities in southeastern Oklahoma, known as the Hugo to Valliant project. Sources of Revenue See “Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Results of Operations — Operating Revenues” for a discussion of our principal sources of revenue. 13 Table of Contents Seasonality The cost-based formula rates with a true-up mechanism in effect for all our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries, as discussed in “Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Cost-Based Formula Rates with True-Up Mechanism,” mitigate the seasonality of net income for our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries. Our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries accrue or defer revenues to the extent that their actual net revenue requirement for the reporting period is higher or lower, respectively, than the amounts billed relating to that reporting period. For example, to the extent that amounts billed are less than our net revenue requirement for a reporting period, a revenue accrual is recorded for the difference and the difference results in no net income impact. Operating cash flows are seasonal at our MISO Regulated Operating Subsidiaries, in that cash received for revenues is typically higher in the summer months when peak load is higher. Principal Customers Our principal transmission service customers are Detroit Edison, Consumers Energy and IP&L, which accounted for approximately 33.1%, 23.6% and 23.9%, respectively, of our total operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010. One or more of these customers together have consistently represented a significant percentage of our operating revenue. These percentages of total operating revenues of Detroit Edison, Consumers Energy and IP&L include an estimate for the 2010 revenue accruals and deferrals that were included in our 2010 operating revenues, but will not be billed to our customers until 2012. We have assumed that the revenues billed to these customers in 2012 would be in the same proportion of the respective percentages of network and regional cost sharing revenues billed to them in 2010. Our remaining revenues were generated from providing service to other entities such as alternative electricity suppliers, power marketers and other wholesale customers that provide electricity to end-use consumers and from transaction-based capacity reservations. Nearly all of our revenues are from transmission customers in the United States. Although we may recognize allocated revenues from time to time from Canadian entities reserving transmission over the Ontario or Manitoba interface, these revenues have not been and are not expected to be material to us. Billing MISO is responsible for billing and collection for transmission services and administers the transmission tariff in the MISO service territory. As the billing agent for our MISO Regulated Operating Subsidiaries, MISO bills Detroit Edison, Consumers Energy, IP&L and other customers on a monthly basis and collects fees for the use of our transmission systems. SPP is responsible for billing and collection for transmission services and administers the transmission tariff in the SPP service territory of which ITC Great Plains is a member. As the billing agent for ITC Great Plains, SPP independently administers the transmission tariff. See “Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk — Credit Risk” for discussion of our credit policies. Competition Each of our MISO Regulated Operating Subsidiaries is the only transmission system in its respective service area and, therefore, effectively has no competitors. For our subsidiaries focused on development opportunities for transmission investment in other service areas, the incumbent utilities or other entities with transmission development initiatives may compete with us by seeking regulatory approval to be named the party to build new capital projects that we are also pursuing. Because our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries are currently the only transmission companies that are independent from electricity market participants, we believe we are best able to develop these projects in a non-discriminatory manner. However, there are no assurances we will be selected to develop projects that other entities are also pursuing. 14 Table of Contents Employees As of December 31, 2010, we had 433 employees. We consider our relations with our employees to be good. Environmental Matters Our operations are subject to federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations, which impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the environment, establish standards for the management, treatment, storage, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials and of solid and hazardous wastes, and impose obligations to investigate and remediate contamination in certain circumstances. Liabilities to investigate or remediate contamination, as well as other liabilities concerning hazardous materials or contamination, such as claims for personal injury or property damage, may arise at many locations, including formerly owned or operated properties and sites where wastes have been treated or disposed of, as well as at properties currently owned or operated by us. Such liabilities may arise even where the contamination does not result from noncompliance with applicable environmental laws. Under a number of environmental laws, such liabilities may also be joint and several, meaning that a party can be held responsible for more than its share of the liability involved, or even the entire share. Environmental requirements generally have become more stringent and compliance with those requirements more expensive. We are not aware of any specific developments that would increase our costs for such compliance in a manner that would be expected to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or liquidity. Our assets and operations also involve the use of materials classified as hazardous, toxic or otherwise dangerous. Many of the properties our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries own or operate have been used for many years, and include older facilities and equipment that may be more likely than newer ones to contain or be made from such materials. Some of these properties include aboveground or underground storage tanks and associated piping. Some of them also include large electrical equipment filled with mineral oil, which may contain or previously have contained polychlorinated biphenyls (commonly known as PCBs). Our facilities and equipment are often situated close to or on property owned by others so that, if they are the source of contamination, the property of others may be affected. For example, aboveground and underground transmission lines sometimes traverse properties that we do not own, and, at some of our transmission stations, transmission assets (owned or operated by us) and distribution assets (owned or operated by our transmission customers) are commingled. Some properties in which we have an ownership interest or at which we operate are, and others are suspected of being, affected by environmental contamination. We are not aware of any claims pending or threatened against us with respect to environmental contamination, or of any investigation or remediation of contamination at any properties, that entail costs likely to materially affect us. Some facilities and properties are located near environmentally sensitive areas such as wetlands. Claims have been made or threatened against electric utilities for bodily injury, disease or other damages allegedly related to exposure to electromagnetic fields associated with electric transmission and distribution lines. While we do not believe that a causal link between electromagnetic field exposure and injury has been generally established and accepted in the scientific community, if such a relationship is established or accepted, the liabilities and costs imposed on our business could be significant. We are not aware of any claims pending or threatened against us for bodily injury, disease or other damages allegedly related to exposure to electromagnetic fields and electric transmission and distribution lines that entail costs likely to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or liquidity. Filings Under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Our internet address is http://www.itc-holdings.com. You can access free of charge on our web site all of our reports filed pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), including our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports. These reports are available as soon as 15 Table of Contents practicable after they are electronically filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Also on our web site are our: • Corporate Governance Guidelines; • Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; and • Committee Charters for the Audit and Finance Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics applies to all directors, officers and employees, including our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer and our Executive Vice President, Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer. We will post any amendments to the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, and any waivers that are required to be disclosed by the rules of either the SEC or the NYSE, on our web site within the required periods. The information on our web site is not incorporated by reference into this report. To learn more about us, please visit our website at http://www.itc-holdings.com. We use our website as a channel of distribution of material company information. Financial and other material information regarding us is routinely posted on our website and is readily accessible. You may also read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington DC, 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The address is http://www.sec.gov. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to Our Business Certain elements of our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries’ cost recovery through rates can be challenged, which could result in lowered rates and/or refunds of amounts previously collected and thus have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have also made certain commitments to federal and state regulators with respect to, among other things, our rates in connection with recent acquisitions (including ITC Midwest’s acquisition of IP&L’s electric transmission assets) that could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries provide transmission service under rates regulated by the FERC. The FERC has approved the cost-based formula rate templates used by our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries, but it has not expressly approved the amount of actual capital and operating expenditures to be used in the formula rates. All aspects of our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries’ rates approved by the FERC, including the formula rate templates, ITCTransmission’s, METC’s, ITC Midwest’s and ITC Great Plains’ respective allowed 13.88%, 13.38%, 12.38% and 12.16% rates of return on the actual equity portion of their respective capital structures, and the data inputs provided by our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries for calculation of each year’s rate, are subject to challenge by interested parties at the FERC in a proceeding under Section 206 of the FPA. If a challenger can establish that any of these aspects are unjust, unreasonable, unduly discriminatory or preferential, then the FERC will make appropriate prospective adjustments to them and/or disallow any of our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries’ inclusion of those aspects in the rate setting formula. This could result in lowered rates and/or refunds of amounts collected after the date that a Section 206 challenge is filed. On November 18, 2008, IP&L filed a complaint against ITC Midwest with the FERC under Section 206 of the Federal Power Act. The complaint alleged that: (1) the operations and maintenance expenses and administrative and general expenses projected in the 2009 ITC Midwest rate appeared excessive; (2) the true-up amount related to ITC Midwest’s posted network rate for the period through December 31, 2008 would cause ITC Midwest to charge an excessive rate in future years; and (3) the methodology of allocating 16 Table of Contents administrative and general expenses among ITC Holdings’ operating companies was changed, resulting in such additional expenses being allocated to ITC Midwest. Among other things, IP&L’s complaint sought investigative action by the FERC relating to ITC Midwest’s transmission service charges reflected in its 2009 rate, as well as hearings regarding the justness and reasonableness of the 2009 rate (with the ultimate goal of reducing such rate). On April 16, 2009, the FERC issued an order that dismissed the IP&L complaint, citing that IP&L failed to meet its burden to establish that the current rate is unjust and unreasonable and that IP&L’s alternative rate proposal is just and reasonable. Requests for rehearing have been filed with the FERC and, therefore the April 16 order remains subject to rehearing and ultimately to an appeal to a Federal Court of Appeals within 30 days of any decision on rehearing. The FERC’s order approving our acquisition of METC was conditioned upon ITCTransmission and METC not recovering “merger-related costs” in their rates, as described in the order, unless a separate informational filing is submitted to the FERC. The informational filing, which could be challenged by interested parties, would need to identify those costs and show that such costs are outweighed by the benefits of the acquisition. Determinations by ITCTransmission or METC that expenses included in their formula rate template for recovery are not acquisition related costs are also subject to challenge by interested parties at the FERC. If challenged at the FERC and ITCTransmission or METC fail to show that costs included for recovery are not merger-related, this also could result in lowered rates and/or refunds of amounts collected. We have not sought recovery of merger-related costs at ITCTransmission or METC. Under the FERC’s order approving ITC Midwest’s asset acquisition, ITC Midwest agreed to a hold harmless commitment in which no acquisition premium will be recovered in rates, nor will ITC Midwest recover through transmission rates any transaction-related costs that exceed demonstrated transaction-related savings for a period of five years. If during the five year period ITC Midwest seeks to recover transaction-related costs through its formula rate, ITC Midwest must make an informational filing at the FERC that identifies the transaction-related costs sought to be recovered and demonstrates that those costs are exceeded by transaction-related savings. If challenged at the FERC and ITC Midwest fails to show that transaction-related costs included for recovery do not exceed transaction-related savings, ITC Midwest could be subject to lowered rates and/or refunds of amounts previously collected. Additionally, in Iowa and Minnesota, as part of the regulatory approval process, ITC Midwest committed not to recover the first $15.0 million in transaction-related costs under any circumstances. We have not sought recovery of transaction-related costs at ITC Midwest. In the Minnesota regulatory proceeding, ITC Midwest also agreed to build two transmission projects intended to improve the reliability and efficiency of our electric transmission system. Specifically, ITC Midwest made commitments to use commercially reasonable best efforts to complete these projects prior to December 31, 2009 and 2011, respectively. In the event ITC Midwest is found to have failed to meet these commitments, the allowed 12.38% rate of return on the actual equity portion of ITC Midwest’s capital structure would be reduced to 10.39% until such time as ITC Midwest completes these projects, and ITC Midwest would refund with interest any amounts collected since the close date of the transaction that exceeded what would have been collected if the 10.39% return on equity had been used. The project that was required to be completed prior to December 31, 2009 was completed by that deadline. With respect to the second project, the 345 kV Salem-Hazelton line, the IUB must provide certain regulatory approvals, but, due to the current case schedule, we do not expect the approvals to be received in time to allow the project to be completed by December 31, 2011. While we believe we have used commercially reasonable best efforts to meet the December 31, 2011 deadline, any of the events described above could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries’ actual capital expenditures may be lower than planned, which would decrease expected rate base and therefore our expected revenues and earnings. In addition, we expect to invest in strategic development opportunities to improve the efficiency 17 Table of Contents and reliability of the transmission grid, but we cannot assure you that we will be able to initiate or complete any of these investments. Each of our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries’ rate base, revenues and earnings are determined in part by additions to property, plant and equipment when placed in service. We anticipate making significant capital investments over the next five years which include estimated transmission network upgrades for generator interconnections. The amounts for network upgrades could change significantly due to factors beyond our control, such as changes in the MISO queue for generation projects and whether the generator meets the various criteria of Attachment FF of the MISO Open Access Transmission, Energy, and Operating Reserve Markets Tariff for the project to qualify as a refundable network upgrade, among other factors. If our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries’ capital expenditures and the resulting in-service property, plant and equipment are lower than anticipated for any reason, our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries will have a lower than anticipated rate base thus causing their revenue requirements and future earnings to be potentially lower than anticipated. In addition, we are pursuing broader strategic development investment opportunities for transmission construction related to building regional transmission facilities, interconnections for generating resources, and other investment opportunities. The incumbent utilities or other entities with transmission development initiatives may compete with us by deciding to pursue capital projects that we are pursuing. These estimates of potential investment opportunities are based primarily on foreseeable transmission needs and general transmission construction costs, not necessarily on particular project cost estimates. Any capital investment at our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries or as a result of our broader strategic development initiatives may be lower than expected due to, among other factors, the impact of actual loads, forecasted loads, regional economic conditions, weather conditions, union strikes, labor shortages, material and equipment prices and availability, our ability to obtain financing for such expenditures, if necessary, limitations on the amount of construction that can be undertaken on our system or transmission systems owned by others at any one time or regulatory approvals for reasons relating to rate construct, environmental, siting, regional planning, cost recovery and other issues or as a result of legal proceedings and variances between estimated and actual costs of construction contracts awarded. Our ability to engage in construction projects resulting from pursuing these initiatives is subject to significant uncertainties, including the factors discussed above, and will depend on obtaining any necessary regulatory and other approvals for the project and for us to initiate construction, our achieving status as the builder of the project in some circumstances and other factors. Therefore, we can provide no assurance as to the actual level of investment we may achieve at our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries or as a result of the broader strategic development initiatives. The regulations to which we are subject may limit our ability to raise capital and/or pursue acquisitions, development opportunities or other transactions or may subject us to liabilities. Each of our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries is a “public utility” under the FPA and, accordingly, is subject to regulation by the FERC. Approval of the FERC is required under Section 203 of the FPA for a disposition or acquisition of regulated public utility facilities, either directly or indirectly through a holding company. Such approval may also be required to acquire securities in a public utility. Section 203 of the FPA also provides the FERC with explicit authority over utility holding companies’ purchases or acquisitions of, and mergers or consolidations with, a public utility. Finally, each of our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries must also seek approval by the FERC under Section 204 of the FPA for issuances of its securities (including debt securities). We are also pursuing strategic development opportunities for construction of transmission facilities and interconnections with generating resources. These projects require regulatory approval by the FERC, applicable RTOs and state regulatory agencies. Failure to secure such regulatory approval for new strategic development projects could adversely affect our ability to grow our business and increase our revenues. In addition, we are subject to state and/or local regulations relating to, among other things, facility siting. If we fail to comply with these local regulations, we may incur liabilities for such failure. 18 Table of Contents Changes in federal energy laws, regulations or policies could impact cash flows and could reduce the dividends we may be able to pay our stockholders. The formula rate templates used by our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries to calculate their respective annual revenue requirements will be used by our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries for that purpose until and unless the FERC determines that such rate formula is unjust and unreasonable or that another mechanism is more appropriate. Such determinations could result from challenges initiated at the FERC by interested parties, by the FERC on its own initiative in a proceeding under Section 206 of the FPA or by a successful application initiated by any of our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries under Section 205 of the FPA. End-use consumers and entities supplying electricity to end-use consumers may attempt to influence government and/or regulators to change the rate setting methodologies that apply to our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries, particularly if rates for delivered electricity increase substantially. Each of our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries is regulated by the FERC as a “public utility” under the FPA and is a transmission owner in MISO or SPP. We cannot predict whether the approved rate methodologies for any of our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries will be changed. In addition, the U.S. Congress periodically considers enacting energy legislation that could shift new responsibilities to the FERC, modify provisions of the FPA or provide the FERC or another entity with increased authority to regulate transmission matters. We cannot predict whether, and to what extent, our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries may be affected by any such changes in federal energy laws, regulations or policies in the future. If amounts billed for transmission service for our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries’ transmission systems are lower than expected, the timing of collection of our revenues would be delayed. If amounts billed for transmission service are lower than expected, which could result from lower network load or point-to-point transmission service on our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries’ transmission systems due to weather, a weak economy, changes in the nature or composition of the transmission assets of our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries and surrounding areas, poor transmission quality of neighboring transmission systems, or for any other reason, the timing of the collection of our revenue requirement would likely be delayed until such circumstances are adjusted through the true-up mechanism in our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries’ formula rate templates. Each of our MISO Regulated Operating Subsidiaries depends on its primary customer for a substantial portion of its revenues, and any material failure by those primary customers to make payments for transmission services would adversely affect our revenues and our ability to service our debt obligations and affect our ability to pay dividends. ITCTransmission derives a substantial portion of its revenues from the transmission of electricity to Detroit Edison’s local distribution facilities. Detroit Edison accounted for 77.5% of ITCTransmission’s total operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010 and is expected to constitute the majority of ITCTransmission’s revenues for the foreseeable future. Detroit Edison is rated BBB+/stable and Baa1/stable by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services and Moody’s Investors Services, Inc., respectively. Similarly, Consumers Energy accounted for 72.3% of METC’s total operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010 and is expected to constitute the majority of METC’s revenues for the foreseeable future. Consumers Energy is rated BBB-/stable and Baa2/stable by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services and Moody’s Investors Service, Inc., respectively. Further, IP&L accounted for 82.5% of ITC Midwest’s total operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010 and is expected to constitute the majority of ITC Midwest’s revenues for the foreseeable future. IP&L is rated BBB+/stable and A3/stable by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services and Moody’s Investors Service, Inc., respectively. These percentages of total operating revenues of Detroit Edison, Consumers Energy and IP&L include an estimate for the 2010 revenue accrual and deferrals that were included in our 2010 operating revenues, but will not be billed to our customers until 2012. We have assumed that the revenues billed to these customers in 2012 would be in the same proportion of the respective percentages of network and regional cost sharing revenues billed to them in 2010. 19 Table of Contents Any material failure by Detroit Edison, Consumers Energy or IP&L to make payments for transmission services could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and our ability to service our debt obligations, and could impact the amount of dividends we pay our stockholders. A significant amount of the land on which our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries’ assets are located is subject to easements, mineral rights and other similar encumbrances. As a result, our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries must comply with the provisions of various easements, mineral rights and other similar encumbrances, which may adversely impact their ability to complete construction projects in a timely manner. METC does not own the majority of the land on which its electric transmission assets are located. Instead, under the provisions of an Easement Agreement with Consumers Energy, METC pays annual rent of $10.0 million to Consumers Energy in exchange for rights-of-way, leases, fee interests and licenses which allow METC to use the land on which its transmission lines are located. Under the terms of the Easement Agreement, METC’s easement rights could be eliminated if METC fails to meet certain requirements, such as paying contractual rent to Consumers Energy in a timely manner. Additionally, a significant amount of the land on which ITCTransmission’s, ITC Midwest’s and ITC Great Plains’ assets are located is subject to easements, mineral rights and other similar encumbrances. As a result, they must comply with the provisions of various easements, mineral rights and other similar encumbrances, which may adversely impact their ability to complete their construction projects in a timely manner. If ITC Midwest’s Operations Services Agreement with IP&L is terminated, ITC Midwest may face a shortage of labor or replacement contractors to provide the services formerly provided by IP&L. ITC Midwest and IP&L have entered into the Operations Services Agreement For 34.5 kV Transmission Facilities (the “OSA”), under which IP&L performs certain operations functions for ITC Midwest’s 34.5 kV transmission system. The OSA’s term is from January 1, 2011 until December 31, 2015, and by its terms will remain in full force and effect from year to year thereafter until terminated by either party upon not less than one year prior written notice to the other party. If the OSA is terminated for any reason or at a time when ITC Midwest is unprepared for such termination, ITC Midwest may face difficulty finding a qualified replacement work force to provide such services, which could have a material adverse effect on its ability to carry on its business and on its results of operations. Hazards associated with high-voltage electricity transmission may result in suspension of our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries’ operations or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. The operations of our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries are subject to the usual hazards associated with high-voltage electricity transmission, including explosions, fires, inclement weather, natural disasters, mechanical failure, unscheduled downtime, equipment interruptions, remediation, chemical spills, discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases and other environmental risks. The hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and environmental damage, and may result in suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. We maintain property and casualty insurance, but we are not fully insured against all potential hazards incident to our business, such as damage to poles, towers and lines or losses caused by outages. Our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries are subject to environmental regulations and to laws that can give rise to substantial liabilities from environmental contamination. The operations of our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, which impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the environment, establish standards for the management, treatment, storage, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials and of solid and hazardous wastes, and impose obligations to investigate and remediate contamination in certain circumstances. Liabilities to investigate or remediate contamination, as 20 Table of Contents well as other liabilities concerning hazardous materials or contamination such as claims for personal injury or property damage, may arise at many locations, including formerly owned or operated properties and sites where wastes have been treated or disposed of, as well as at properties currently owned or operated by our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries. Such liabilities may arise even where the contamination does not result from noncompliance with applicable environmental laws. Under a number of environmental laws, such liabilities may also be joint and several, meaning that a party can be held responsible for more than its share of the liability involved, or even the entire share. Environmental requirements generally have become more stringent in recent years, and compliance with those requirements more expensive. Our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries have incurred expenses in connection with environmental compliance, and we anticipate that each will continue to do so in the future. Failure to comply with the extensive environmental laws and regulations applicable to each could result in significant civil or criminal penalties and remediation costs. Our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries’ assets and operations also involve the use of materials classified as hazardous, toxic, or otherwise dangerous. Some of our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries’ facilities and properties are located near environmentally sensitive areas such as wetlands and habitats of endangered or threatened species. In addition, certain properties in which our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries operate are, or are suspected of being, affected by environmental contamination. Compliance with these laws and regulations, and liabilities concerning contamination or hazardous materials, may adversely affect our costs and, therefore, our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, claims have been made or threatened against electric utilities for bodily injury, disease or other damages allegedly related to exposure to electromagnetic fields associated with electric transmission and distribution lines. We cannot assure you that such claims will not be asserted against us or that, if determined in a manner adverse to our interests, such claims would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries are subject to various regulatory requirements, including reliability standards. Violations of these requirements, whether intentional or unintentional, may result in penalties that, under some circumstances, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The various regulatory requirements to which we are subject include reliability standards established by the NERC, which acts as the nation’s Electric Reliability Organization approved by the FERC in accordance with Section 215 of the FPA. These standards address operation, planning and security of the bulk power system, including requirements with respect to real-time transmission operations, emergency operations, vegetation management, critical infrastructure protection and personnel training. Failure to comply with these requirements can result in monetary penalties as well as non-monetary sanctions. Monetary penalties vary based on an assigned risk factor for each potential violation, the severity of the violation and various other circumstances, such as whether the violation was intentional or concealed, whether there are repeated violations, the degree of the violator’s cooperation in investigating and remediating the violation and the presence of a compliance program. Penalty amounts range from $1,000 to a maximum of $1.0 million per day, depending on the severity of the violation. Non-monetary sanctions include potential limitations on the violator’s activities or operation and placing the violator on a watchlist for major violators. Despite our best efforts to comply and the implementation of a compliance program intended to ensure reliability, there can be no assurance that violations will not occur that would result in material penalties or sanctions. If any of our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries were to violate the NERC reliability standards, even unintentionally, in any material way, any penalties or sanctions imposed against us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 21 Table of Contents Acts of war, terrorist attacks and threats or the escalation of military activity in response to such attacks or otherwise may negatively affect our business, financial condition and cash flows. Acts of war, terrorist attacks and threats or the escalation of military activity in response to such attacks or otherwise may negatively affect our business, financial condition and cash flows in unpredictable ways, such as increased security measures and disruptions of markets. Strategic targets, such as energy related assets, including, for example, our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries’ transmission facilities and Detroit Edison’s, Consumers Energy’s and IP&L’s generation and distribution facilities, may be at risk of future terrorist attacks. In addition to the increased costs associated with heightened security requirements, such events may have an adverse effect on the economy in general. A lower level of economic activity could result in a decline in energy consumption, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and cash flows. Risks Relating to Our Structure and Financial Leverage ITC Holdings is a holding company with no operations, and unless we receive dividends or other payments from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to pay dividends and fulfill our other cash obligations. As a holding company with no business operations, ITC Holdings’ material assets consist primarily of the stock and membership interests in our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries and our other subsidiaries, deferred tax assets relating primarily to federal income tax NOLs and cash on hand. Our only sources of cash to pay dividends to our stockholders are dividends and other payments received by us from time to time from our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries and our other subsidiaries and the proceeds raised from the sale of our debt and equity securities. Each of our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries, however, is legally distinct from us and has no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to make funds available to us for the payment of dividends to ITC Holdings’ stockholders or otherwise. The ability of each of our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries and our other subsidiaries to pay dividends and make other payments to us is subject to, among other things, the availability of funds, after taking into account capital expenditure requirements, the terms of its indebtedness, applicable state laws and regulations of the FERC and the FPA. While we currently intend to continue to pay quarterly dividends on our common stock, we have no obligation to do so. The payment of dividends is within the absolute discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, working capital requirements, capital expenditure requirements, financial condition, contractual restrictions, anticipated cash needs and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. We are highly leveraged and our dependence on debt may limit our ability to fulfill our debt obligations and/or to obtain additional financing. We are highly leveraged and our consolidated indebtedness consists of various outstanding debt securities and borrowings under various revolving credit agreements. This capital structure can have several important consequences, including, but not limited to, the following: • If future cash flows are insufficient, we may not be able to make principal or interest payments on our debt obligations, which could result in the occurrence of an event of default under one or more of those debt instruments. • If future cash flows are insufficient, we may need to incur further indebtedness in order to make the capital expenditures and other expenses or investments planned by us. • Our indebtedness has the general effect of reducing our flexibility to react to changing business and economic conditions insofar as they affect our financial condition and, therefore, may pose substantial risk to our shareholders. A substantial portion of the dividends and payments in lieu of taxes we receive from our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries will be dedicated to the payment of interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available for the payment of dividends on our common stock. 22 Table of Contents • In the event that we are liquidated, our senior or subordinated creditors and the senior or subordinated creditors of our subsidiaries will be entitled to payment in full prior to any distributions to the holders of shares of our common stock. • We currently have debt instruments outstanding with relatively short remaining maturities. Our ability to secure additional financing prior to or after these facilities mature, if needed, may be substantially restricted by the existing level of our indebtedness and the restrictions contained in our debt instruments. • Market conditions could affect our access to capital markets, restrict our ability to secure financing to make the capital expenditures and other expenses or investments planned by us and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We may incur substantial indebtedness in the future. The incurrence of additional indebtedness would increase the leverage-related risks described here. Certain provisions in our debt instruments limit our financial flexibility. Our debt instruments include senior notes, secured notes, first mortgage bonds and revolving credit agreements containing numerous financial and operating covenants that place significant restrictions on, among other things, our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • engage in sale and lease-back transactions; • create liens or other encumbrances; • enter into mergers, consolidations, liquidations or dissolutions, or sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; • create and acquire subsidiaries; and • pay dividends or make distributions on our and ITCTransmission’s capital stock and METC’s, ITC Midwest’s, and ITC Great Plains’ member capital. The revolving credit agreements, ITC Holdings’ senior notes, ITCTransmission’s first mortgage bonds, ITC Midwest’s first mortgage bonds and METC’s senior secured notes require us to meet certain financial ratios, such as maintaining certain debt to capitalization ratios. Our ability to comply with these and other requirements and restrictions may be affected by changes in economic or business conditions, results of operations or other events beyond our control. A failure to comply with the obligations contained in any of our debt instruments could result in acceleration of the related debt and the acceleration of debt under other instruments evidencing indebtedness that may contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. Adverse changes in our credit ratings may negatively affect us. Our ability to access capital markets is important to our ability to operate our business. Increased scrutiny of the energy industry and the impact of regulation, as well as changes in our financial performance and unfavorable conditions in the capital markets could result in credit agencies reexamining our credit ratings. A downgrade in our credit ratings could restrict or discontinue our ability to access capital markets at attractive rates and increase our borrowing costs. A rating downgrade could also increase the interest we pay under our revolving credit agreements. The amount of our federal income tax NOLs that we may use to reduce our tax liability in any given period is limited. We have significant federal income tax NOLs resulting in part from accelerated depreciation methods for property, plant and equipment for income tax reporting purposes. These federal income tax NOLs may 23 Table of Contents be used to offset future taxable income and thereby reduce our U.S. federal income taxes otherwise payable. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended imposes an annual limit on the ability of a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” to use its federal income tax NOLs to reduce its tax liability. We are subject to annual limitations on the use of such federal income tax NOLs as a result of changes in our ownership in 2006. We have not recorded a valuation allowance relating to our federal income tax NOLs. In the event it becomes more likely than not that any portion of the federal income tax NOLs will expire unused, we would be required to recognize an expense to establish a valuation allowance in the period in which the determination is made. If the expense is significant, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Provisions in our Articles of Incorporation and bylaws, Michigan corporate law and our debt agreements may impede efforts by our shareholders to change the direction or management of our company. Our Articles of Incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that might enable our management to resist a proposed takeover. These provisions could discourage, delay or prevent a change of control or an acquisition at a price that our shareholders may find attractive. These provisions also may discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our shareholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. The existence of these provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions include: • a requirement that special meetings of our shareholders may be called only by our board of directors, the chairman of our board of directors, our president or the holders of a majority of the shares of our outstanding common stock; • advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals and nominations; and • the authority of our board to issue, without shareholder approval, common or preferred stock, including in connection with our implementation of any shareholders rights plan, or “poison pill.” In addition, our revolving credit agreements provide that a change in a majority of ITC Holdings’ board of directors that is not approved by the current ITC Holdings directors or acquiring beneficial ownership of 35% or more of ITC Holdings outstanding common shares will constitute a default under those agreements. Provisions in our Articles of Incorporation restrict market participants from voting or owning 5% or more of the outstanding shares of our capital stock. Certain of our Regulated Operating Subsidiaries have been granted favorable rate treatment by the FERC based on their independence from market participants. The FERC defines a “market participant” to include any person or entity that, either directly or through an affiliate, sells or brokers electricity, or provides ancillary services to an RTO. An affiliate, for these purposes, includes any person or entity that directly or indirectly owns, controls or holds with the power to vote 5% or more of the outstanding voting securities of a market participant. To help ensure that we and our subsidiaries will remain independent of market participants, our Articles of Incorporation impose certain restrictions on the ownership and voting of shares of our capital stock by market participants. In particular, the Articles of Incorporation provide that we are restricted from issuing any shares of capital stock or recording any transfer of shares if the issuance or transfer would cause any market participant, either individually or together with members of its “group” (as defined in SEC beneficial ownership rules), to beneficially own 5% or more of any class or series of our capital stock. Additionally, if a market participant, together with its group members, acquires beneficial ownership of 5% or more of any series of the outstanding shares of our capital stock, such market participant or any shareholder who is a member of a group including a market participant will not be able to vote or direct or control the votes of shares representing 5% or more of any series of our outstanding capital stock. Finally, to the extent a market participant, together with its group members, acquires beneficial ownership of 5% or more of the outstanding shares of any series of our capital stock, our Articles of Incorporation allow our board of directors to redeem any shares of our capital stock so that, after giving 24 Table of Contents effect to the redemption, the market participant, together with its group members, will cease to beneficially own 5% or more of that series of our outstanding capital stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 