Risk Factors Important factors that could cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include, but are not limited to, the risk factors set forth below. If any of the events discussed in these risk factors occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected in a material way, and the market value of our common stock could decline. Risks Related to Our Business We currently depend on sales of the Hi Art system for substantially all of our revenue, and, if we are unable to grow or sustain sales of the Hi Art system and other radiation therapy systems we have recently launched, we may not generate sufficient revenue to support our business. Currently, our primary product is the Hi Art system, which we began selling in 2003. We expect to generate the substantial majority of our revenue for the near term from sales of and post-warranty service contracts for the Hi Art system. We have recently announced the introduction of the TomoHD treatment system and the TomoMobile relocatable radiation therapy system. While these new systems, as well as the TomoDirect software and other related products, provide some diversity to our product portfolio, all of our products are still focused on and directed toward the middle to high end of the radiation therapy market. Any factor materially adversely affecting our ability to market and sell our TomoTherapy radiation therapy systems, or pricing and demand for such systems, including, among other factors, weak economic conditions, new competitive technologies, our failure to maintain a strong sales and marketing team, reliability and safety issues and reductions in U.S. government reimbursement amounts, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because the substantial majority of our revenue currently is derived from sales of TomoTherapy treatment systems, and because of the long sales cycle and high unit price of such systems, our results of operations will vary significantly from period to period. These fluctuations in revenue may make it difficult to compare our results of operations across periods. We expect to generate the substantial majority of our revenue for the foreseeable future from sales of and post-warranty service contracts for the Hi Art system and other TomoTherapy treatment systems. Moreover, these systems are a major capital equipment item with a lengthy sales cycle, can often take 12 months or more from initial discussion with the customer to a sale, and another 12 months or more from order to installation of a system. We 20 Table of Contents typically recognize revenue from the sale of the TomoTherapy treatment systems after installation and upon receipt of a signed acceptance test procedure report from the customer. Because of the high unit price of the treatment systems and the relatively small number of units installed each quarter, each installation may represent a significant component of our revenue for a particular quarter. Furthermore, as of December 31, 2009, approximately 15 percent of our orders in backlog were from for-profit institutions in the United States, often for multiple systems. Orders from these types of customers typically remain in backlog longer and are typically installed by us over a greater period of time than single system orders. In addition, other unexpected factors may affect whether and when orders become revenue, including construction delays at customer locations, rescheduling by customers, weather problems or natural disasters, unforeseen delays in delivery, a change in a customer’s financial condition, outlook or ability to obtain financing, and regulatory approvals. If a small number of customers defer installation of a TomoTherapy treatment system for even a short period of time, recognition of a significant amount of revenue may be deferred to a subsequent period. Since our operating costs are relatively fixed, our inability to recognize revenue in a particular quarter could materially adversely affect our profitability in that quarter and may make it difficult to compare our operating results with prior periods. Our sales and receivables may be adversely impacted if current economic conditions persist or worsen, or credit becomes more difficult to obtain on reasonable terms. The TomoTherapy treatment systems are major capital equipment items that represent a significant purchase for most of our customers and may require funding through a credit facility or lease arrangement. If the global economy is weak, our customers may hesitate to place large capital equipment orders for items such as the TomoTherapy treatment systems or they may be required to delay or cancel previously planned purchases. Our customers may also be slower to pay, thereby increasing receivables. A number of orders we expected to receive in 2009 have not been placed because of certain hospitals’ freezes on capital equipment purchases. Although there are some early indications that the U.S. economy may be improving, whether and when it will improve significantly remains uncertain at the time of this filing. If macroeconomic conditions continue to be poor, our customers may purchase fewer TomoTherapy treatment systems, we may need to reduce our prices or our customers may have difficulty paying us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our backlog, which is an important measure of future revenue, declines further, our future financial performance will be adversely affected. As of December 31, 2009, we had a backlog of $136 million, the majority of which we believe will convert to revenue during 2010. We believe the value of new incoming orders is an important measure of our future financial performance. During both 2008 and 2009, we experienced a decline in incoming orders as compared to previous years. We believe that this decline resulted from a combination of the current global economic downturn, the ongoing credit crisis, our transition in sales leadership and enhanced competitive pressure. If we are unable to respond effectively to increased competition and our sales and marketing leadership is not effective in increasing new orders, our backlog may continue to decline. If economic conditions, particularly in the United States, remain weak or worsen, our customers may have greater difficulty obtaining the funding necessary to place new orders. This could lead to further erosion of our current backlog. Significant decline in new orders and erosion of existing backlog for any of the reasons stated above could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face competition from numerous competitors, many of whom have greater resources than we do, which may make it more difficult for us to achieve significant market penetration and maintain or increase our prices. The market for radiation therapy equipment is characterized by intense competition and pricing pressure. We consider the competition for the TomoTherapy treatment systems to be existing radiation therapy systems, primarily using C-arm linear accelerators, sold by large, well-capitalized companies with significantly greater market share and resources than we have. Several of these competitors are also able to leverage their fixed sales, service and other costs over multiple products or product lines. In particular, we compete with a number of existing 21 Table of Contents radiation therapy equipment companies including Varian Medical Systems, Inc., Elekta AB, Siemens Medical Solutions, and, to a lesser extent, Accuray Incorporated and BrainLAB AG. Varian Medical Systems has been the radiation therapy systems market leader for many years and has the majority market share for radiation therapy systems worldwide. In 2008, Varian began selling and installing the RapidArc technology. The RapidArc technology purports to be able to deliver image-guided, intensity-modulated radiation therapy more rapidly than other similar systems, including the Hi Art system, and Varian has maintained a strong marketing campaign claiming this technology has the same capabilities as, or better capabilities than, our Hi Art system. If we are unable to compete effectively with this and other products of existing or future competitors, our revenue will decline, and there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of our competitors may compete by changing their pricing model or by lowering the price of their conventional radiation therapy systems or ancillary supplies. If such pricing strategies are implemented, there could be downward pressure on the price of radiation therapy systems. If we are unable to maintain or increase our selling prices, our gross margins will decline, and there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Sales of the TomoTherapy treatment systems may be adversely affected if clinicians do not widely adopt IGRT and adaptive radiotherapy, which is an emerging cancer treatment technique. Our success in marketing the Hi Art system and our other TomoTherapy treatment systems depends in part on persuading clinicians and patients of the benefits of adaptive radiation therapy. IMRT is a widely accepted technique, which involves varying, or modulating, the intensity of the radiation beam across a targeted treatment area. However, while becoming more accepted in the United States and other developed countries, image guided radiation therapy, or IGRT, which involves delivering IMRT guided by images of the treatment area taken shortly before treatment, using CT, x-ray, ultrasound or other imaging technologies, is an emerging cancer treatment technique in much of the world. Adaptive radiation therapy involves adjusting a patient’s radiation therapy plan between treatment sessions to account for changes in the patient’s anatomy, the amount and location of the radiation received by the patient, and the size, shape and location of the tumor. In particular, we believe that adaptive radiation therapy requires, and we have designed the TomoTherapy treatment systems to enable, frequent adjustments to a patient’s treatment plan throughout the entire course of treatment, facilitated by both the regular acquisition of updated quantitative images showing the location, geometry and density of the tumor, as well as the verification of the actual radiation dose received by the patient. Increased sales of our products depend, in part, on widespread adoption of these techniques by clinicians both within and outside the United States. Widespread adoption of IGRT and adaptive radiation therapy depends on many factors, including some that are outside of our control. These factors include acceptance by clinicians that IGRT and adaptive radiation therapy are clinically effective and cost-effective in treating a wide range of tumors, demand by patients for such treatment, successful education of clinicians on the various aspects of these techniques, adequate reimbursement for procedures performed using adaptive radiation therapy and our customers’ ability to afford or finance a purchase of our treatment systems. If widespread market acceptance of IGRT and adaptive radiation therapy do not occur, or do not occur as rapidly as we anticipate, new orders and sales of the TomoTherapy treatment systems may be adversely affected and our revenue may decline further. The effectiveness of procedures performed using conformal radiation therapy delivery systems like the Hi Art system are not yet supported by long-term clinical data, and the medical community has only begun to develop a large body of peer-reviewed literature that supports the efficacy of the TomoTherapy treatment systems. We are only just beginning to have significant clinical data supporting the advantages of highly conformal dose delivery that we believe the TomoTherapy treatment systems offer in comparison to competing products and technologies. For example, because the Hi Art system has only been on the market since 2003, we have only limited complication or patient survival rate data for our unique technology, which are common long-term measures of clinical effectiveness in cancer treatment. In addition, while the effectiveness of radiation therapy is well understood, there is a growing but still limited number of peer-reviewed medical journal publications regarding the efficacy of highly conformal treatment such as that delivered by the TomoTherapy treatment systems. If future patient studies or clinical experience do not support our beliefs that the TomoTherapy treatment systems offer a 22 Table of Contents more advantageous treatment for a wide variety of cancer types, use of our products could fail to increase or could decrease, and our business, financial condition and results of operations would therefore be adversely affected. We may be unable to penetrate the market we currently serve or the unserved single linear accelerator facility market if we fail to educate clinicians and patients about the benefits of the TomoTherapy treatment systems and to implement enhancements to the systems in a timely manner. We believe that sales of the Hi Art system to date have been principally to those hospitals and cancer treatment centers that are most open to the adoption of new technologies. In order to expand our sales, we must raise awareness of the range of benefits that we believe the Hi Art system and other TomoTherapy treatment systems offer to both existing and potential customers, and their patients. An important part of our sales strategy involves educating and training clinicians to utilize the entire functionality of the TomoTherapy treatment systems. In particular, many clinicians are currently unfamiliar with techniques using the full quantitative imaging capabilities of our treatment systems, which enable clinicians to adapt a patient’s treatment plan in response to anatomical changes and the cumulative amount of radiation received by specific areas within the patient over the course of treatment. In addition, we must further educate clinicians about the ability of our treatment systems to treat a wide range of cancer types effectively and efficiently. If clinicians are not properly educated about the use of the TomoTherapy treatment systems for adaptive radiation therapy, they may be unwilling or unable to take advantage of the full range of functionality that we believe our products offer, which could have an adverse effect on our product sales. In determining whether to purchase a single treatment system or whether to purchase multiple treatment systems, we understand that clinicians may weigh the benefits that the TomoTherapy treatment systems offer their patients, especially those with tumors typically treated using less sophisticated equipment, against the additional time required to implement the TomoTherapy treatment systems’ image guided treatment functionality and the higher cost of the TomoTherapy treatment systems when compared to systems with less functionality. Customers or potential customers may decide that certain tumors can be adequately treated using traditional radiation therapy systems, notwithstanding the greater precision and functionality enabled by the TomoTherapy treatment systems. These considerations may be particularly relevant to cancer treatment centers that only have space for a single radiation therapy system. In order to increase sales of the TomoTherapy treatment systems to these customers, we must succeed in implementing enhancements to our products to improve speed and patient throughput in order to render the time differentials between certain procedures performed using the TomoTherapy treatment system and those performed using competitive systems insignificant. We must also succeed in educating clinicians about the potential for cost-effective reimbursement for procedures performed using the TomoTherapy treatment system. We believe the TomoDirect product, which we launched in 2009, enables customers to use the TomoTherapy treatment systems more efficiently and effectively for a broader range of cases. However, we have additional products under development that could increase efficiency and effectiveness further. Our ability to increase system sales could be materially adversely affected if we delay or are unable to develop these other system enhancements. Our reliance on single-source suppliers for critical components of the TomoTherapy treatment systems could harm our ability to meet demand for our products in a timely and cost-effective manner. We currently depend on single-source suppliers for a number of critical components necessary for the assembly of the TomoTherapy treatment systems, including the ring gantry, the solid state modulator, the radiation detector and the magnetron. We purchase some of these components from several major industry suppliers. If the supply of any of these components were to be disrupted or terminated, or if these suppliers were unable to supply the quantities of components that we require because of financial difficulties or for other reasons, we may have difficulty or be unable to find alternative sources for these key components. As a result, we may be unable to meet the demand for our treatment systems, which could harm our ability to generate revenue and damage our reputation. In addition, such a delay in components might cause us to have insufficient spare parts to service existing installed systems, which may lead to customer dissatisfaction. We believe it will be necessary to find alternative manufacturers for key components of the TomoTherapy treatment systems over time as our quantity and quality demands evolve. We may experience a significant delay in locating alternative manufacturers. Furthermore, we will need to verify that any new manufacturer meets our 23 Table of Contents technical specifications and maintains facilities, procedures and operations that comply with our quality requirements. We will also have to assess any new manufacturer’s compliance with all applicable regulations and guidelines, which could further impede our ability to manufacture our products in a timely manner. If the change in manufacturer results in a significant change to our TomoTherapy treatment systems, a new 510(k) clearance from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, or similar foreign clearance may be necessary. The occurrence of any of these events could harm our ability to meet the demand for our products in a timely manner or within budget and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to increase our profitability depends in part on maintaining our average selling prices and increasing our gross margins on product sales, which we may not be able to achieve. A number of factors may result in lower average selling prices for the TomoTherapy treatment system, which may adversely impact our gross margins. Although we have diversified our product offerings and we have a number of initiatives underway to reduce costs for certain key components, we may not be successful in driving down costs to any significant degree. In response to increased competition from the TomoTherapy treatment systems, our competitors may reduce the prices of their systems, which may, in turn, result in downward pressure on the price of radiation therapy systems, including the TomoTherapy treatment systems. We also seek to sell the TomoTherapy treatment systems to customers that place orders for multiple systems; however, such sales may result in pressure to provide volume discounts. If economic conditions fail to improve and the economy contracts further, we may also face pressure to lower prices. In addition, we may be exposed to pricing pressures and greater exchange rate risks as we expand our sales within specific regions. Sales into Europe are typically denominated in Euros. Our profitability on those sales would vary significantly based on fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Euro and the U.S. dollar. Any one or combination of these and other factors could result in lower gross margins and adversely affect our profitability. Our ability to increase our profitability also depends in part on reducing our warranty and service costs for the TomoTherapy treatment systems and improving our economies of scale, which we may not be able to achieve. Our overall service operations currently are not profitable. Moreover, our gross margins may decline in a given period due in part to significant replacement rates for components, resulting in increased warranty expense and negative profit margins on service contracts. We are implementing a number of improvements to our service processes, which might reduce costs. We also are developing alternate components and identifying lower priced components of comparable or improved performance and quality. If we are unable to reduce our expenses through these initiatives and maintain competitive pricing of service contracts, our profitability may not improve or may be materially adversely affected, particularly given the increased percentage of our revenue attributable to service contracts. Even if we are able to implement these cost reduction efforts successfully, our service operations may remain unprofitable given the relatively small size and geographic dispersion of our installed base, which prevents us from achieving significant economies of scale for provision of service. We may be required to use more cash generated from our initial public offering to pay expenses, reducing our ability to use those proceeds for long-term investments. During 2009, we took a number of actions, including reductions in our workforce, to reduce our expenses and the use of our cash. Nonetheless, even with such cost reductions, we experienced lower than anticipated operating margins. If our orders growth and revenue remain weak and we are unable to continue to manage expenses accordingly, or if we face unanticipated expenses, we may have difficulty bringing expenses in line with revenues, resulting in even lower than anticipated margins and negative cash flow. We may be required to use more of our cash reserves generated from our 2007 initial public offering for operational needs, rather than using such funds for longer term investments, such as expansion of our research and development programs and marketing and sales capabilities, and investments in complementary businesses, products or technologies. This could impair our ability to continue to bring new and innovative products to market, or to further enhance our existing product offerings. 24 Table of Contents If we are unable to maintain existing research collaboration relationships, enter into new collaboration arrangements in the future or enter into license agreements with our collaborators and others, our ability to enhance the TomoTherapy treatment systems may be adversely affected. To date, we have entered into over 30 research collaboration arrangements with a range of hospitals, cancer treatment centers and academic institutions. These collaborations support our internal research and development capabilities and represent a key element of our ongoing research and development program. Among other things, our current collaborations supplement initiatives to more fully automate the treatment and adaptive therapy processes enabled by the TomoTherapy treatment systems, as well as initiatives to accommodate real-time patient movements during treatment. Our research collaboration partners may not fulfill all of their obligations under our arrangements with them. If our current research collaborations do not meet our research and development expectations, or if we are unable to enter into additional research collaborations in the future to replace unproductive collaborations or add new collaborations, our ability to enhance the TomoTherapy treatment systems may be adversely affected. Our inability to successfully collaborate with third parties could increase our development costs, delay new or pending developments and limit the likelihood of successful enhancements to the TomoTherapy treatment systems. Our collaboration agreements generally provide that we either own, in the case of our own developments, have the right to use, in the case of joint developments, or have the right to license, in the case of developments by our collaborator, technology developed pursuant to a collaboration. We cannot provide any assurance that we will successfully enter into license agreements with any of our collaborators concerning technology that is jointly developed or developed by the collaborator, which may prevent us from using that technology. If we are unable to enter into exclusive license agreements with a collaborator over technology that is jointly developed with, or solely developed by, the collaborator, the collaborator may be able to use or license the technology to third parties. Furthermore, if we are unable to enter into license agreements with a collaborator for technology that is jointly developed with, or solely developed by, the collaborator, we may be unable to use that technology. In addition, if we are unable to agree with our collaborators concerning ownership or proper inventorship of technology developed under the collaboration agreement, we may be forced to engage in arbitration or litigation to determine the proper ownership or inventorship. We rely on a third party to perform spare parts shipping and other logistics functions on our behalf. A failure or disruption at our logistics provider would adversely impact our business. Customer service is a critical element of our sales strategy. As of December 31, 2009, a third-party logistics provider, Kuehne + Nagel Inc., stored almost all of our spare parts inventory in depots around the world and performed a significant portion of our spare parts logistics and shipping activities. We may utilize additional logistics service providers in connection with the expansion of international sales. If Kuehne + Nagel suffers an interruption in its business, or experiences delays, disruptions or quality control problems in its operations, or we have to change and qualify an alternative logistics provider, shipments of spare parts to our customers may be delayed and our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Changes in healthcare policies and changes to reimbursement to healthcare providers for use of the TomoTherapy treatment system could adversely affect sales of the TomoTherapy treatment system. Our ability to market and sell the TomoTherapy treatment system successfully depends in part on the extent to which sufficient reimbursement for treatment procedures using the TomoTherapy treatment system will be available from third-party payors such as private health insurance plans and health maintenance organizations and government payor programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Third-party payors, and in particular managed care organizations, challenge the prices charged for medical products and services and institute cost containment measures to control or significantly influence the purchase of medical products and services. For example, in November 2009, the United States Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, issued new reimbursement rates for 2010. For 2010, CMS increased rates slightly for hospitals and implemented only modest reimbursement rate decreases for free-standing clinics. However, CMS reviews such rates annually, and could implement more significant changes in 2011 and future years. If in the future CMS significantly decreases reimbursement rates for radiation oncology services, or if other cost containment measures are implemented in the 25 Table of Contents United States or elsewhere, clinicians may be reluctant to purchase TomoTherapy treatment systems or may decline to do so entirely if they determine there is insufficient coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors for the cost of procedures performed, which could have an adverse impact on our sales. In the United States, reimbursement for services rendered to Medicaid beneficiaries is determined pursuant to each state’s Medicaid plan, which is established by state law and regulations and is subject to the requirements of federal laws and regulations. The Balanced Budget Act of 1997 revised the Medicaid program to provide each state more control over coverage and payment matters. In addition, CMS has granted many states waivers to allow for greater control of the Medicaid program at the state level. The impact on our business of this greater state control on Medicaid payment for diagnostic services remains uncertain, particularly in light of current economic conditions. Healthcare policies and costs continue to be a focus of discussion in the United States and elsewhere. In the United States, a number of healthcare reforms are being discussed or proposed, but it is unclear at this time which might be enacted by the U.S. Congress and which might be signed into law by the Obama administration. New laws or regulations could be issued that could radically affect the way healthcare is delivered in the United States, resulting in changes that may materially and negatively affect demand for our products. Our success in non-U.S. markets also depends upon treatment procedures using our products being eligible for reimbursement through government-sponsored healthcare payment systems, private third-party payors and labor unions. Reimbursement and healthcare payment systems in international markets vary significantly by country and, within some countries, by region. In many international markets, payment systems may control reimbursement for procedures performed using new products as well as procurement of these products. In addition, as economies of emerging markets develop, these countries may implement changes in their healthcare delivery and payment systems. Healthcare cost containment efforts are prevalent in many of the countries in which we sell, or intend to sell, our products, and these efforts are expected to continue. Market acceptance of TomoTherapy treatment systems in a particular country may depend on the availability and level of reimbursement in that country. Our ability to generate sales may be adversely affected if customers are unable to obtain or maintain adequate reimbursement for treatment procedures using our products in markets outside of the United States Our manufacturing operations are conducted at a single location, and any disruption at our manufacturing facility could increase our expenses. All of our manufacturing operations are conducted at a single location in Madison, Wisconsin. This location contains bunkers for testing the TomoTherapy treatment system because it emits radiation. We do not maintain a backup manufacturing facility, and we therefore depend on our current facility for the continued operation of our business. A natural or other disaster could cause substantial delays in our manufacturing operations, damage or destroy our manufacturing equipment or inventory, and cause us to incur additional expenses. The insurance we maintain against natural or other disasters may not be adequate to cover our losses in any particular case. With or without insurance, damage to our manufacturing facility or our other property, or to any of our suppliers, due to a natural disaster or casualty event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent upon third-party local distributors to market and distribute our products in key markets. We rely on third-party distributors for exclusive marketing and distribution of our products in certain countries in Asia-Pacific, the Middle East, Eastern Europe and Latin America. Our success in generating sales in countries where we have engaged local distributors depends in part on the efforts of others whom we do not employ. Many of these local distributors have only limited personnel, which could impair their ability to successfully market, sell and service the TomoTherapy treatment systems. Because of limited resources or for other reasons, they may not comply with applicable local regulations or respond promptly to adverse event reporting requirements under U.S. FDA regulations. As a result of such failures to comply with regulatory requirements, we may experience significant loss of revenue, increased costs and damage to our reputation, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if a distributor is terminated by us or goes out of business, it may take us a period of time to locate an alternative distributor, to transfer or obtain appropriate 26 Table of Contents regulatory approvals and to train its personnel to market our products, and our ability to sell and service our products in the region formerly serviced by such terminated distributor could be materially adversely affected. Any of these factors could materially adversely affect our revenue from international markets, increase our costs in those markets or damage our reputation. For example, in 2008 we terminated our distributor in Japan and entered into an agreement with Hitachi Medical Corporation to serve as our new distributor. While we were able to transfer certain assets to the new distributor, such as inventory and the regulatory license, in order to support that transition, we incurred additional costs and experienced a delay in fulfilling orders in 2008 and 2009 from Japan as a result of the transition. We also have incurred costs as a result of a dispute with our former distributor over the payments we owe related to termination of the distribution agreement. If in the future other distributor transitions are not as smooth, we could experience significant loss of revenue, increased costs and damage to our reputation, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Technological breakthroughs in cancer treatment could render the TomoTherapy treatment systems obsolete. The cancer treatment market is characterized by rapid technological change and product innovation. Other radiation-based technologies for treating cancer that may or may not incorporate IGRT and adaptive radiation therapy, such as proton therapy, may increase competition for the TomoTherapy treatment systems. In addition, companies in the pharmaceutical or biotechnology fields may seek to develop methods of cancer treatment that are more effective than radiation therapy, resulting in decreased demand for our products. Because the TomoTherapy treatment systems have a long development cycle and because it can take significant time to receive government approvals for changes to our TomoTherapy treatment systems, we must anticipate changes in the marketplace and the direction of technological innovation. Accordingly, if we are unable to anticipate and keep pace with new innovations in the cancer treatment market, our products may be rendered obsolete, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A significant percentage of our sales are outside of North America, and economic, political and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our sales or make them less predictable. The percentage of our revenue derived from sales outside of North America was 45% in 2009, 34% for 2008, and 44% in 2007. To accommodate our international sales, we have invested significant financial and management resources to develop an international infrastructure that will meet the needs of our customers. In particular, we operate a European office in Brussels, Belgium which includes sales, service and physics operations. In addition, we have entered into agreements with distributors in Asia-Pacific, the Middle East, and Eastern Europe who purchase TomoTherapy treatment systems from us for resale to end customers. We support our international marketing and sales activities from both our U.S. headquarters in Madison, Wisconsin and our office in Brussels, Belgium. We face additional risks resulting from our international operations, including: • difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables in a timely manner through the legal systems of many countries outside the United States; • the potential failure to comply with foreign regulatory requirements to market TomoTherapy treatment systems on a timely basis or at all; • availability of, and changes in, reimbursement within prevailing foreign health care payment systems; • compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and comparable foreign anti-bribery laws; • difficulties in managing foreign relationships and operations, including any relationships that we establish with foreign distributors or sales or marketing agents; • limited protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; 27 Table of Contents • the possibility that foreign countries may impose additional withholding taxes or otherwise tax our foreign income, impose tariffs or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade; • the possibility of material shipping delays; and • significant changes in the political, regulatory, safety or economic conditions in a country or region in which we operate. If we fail to overcome the challenges we encounter in our international operations, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. Product liability suits, whether or not meritorious, could be brought against us due to an alleged defective component of a TomoTherapy treatment system or for the misuse of our products. These suits could result in expensive and time-consuming litigation, payment of substantial damages and an increase in our insurance rates. Our business exposes us to potential product liability claims that are inherent in the manufacture, sale, installation, servicing and support of medical devices. The medical device industry has historically been litigious, and we would face financial exposure to product liability claims in the U.S., and potentially elsewhere, if the use of a TomoTherapy treatment system were to cause or contribute to injury or death, whether by aggravating existing patient symptoms, harming operators, or otherwise. Because the TomoTherapy treatment systems involve the delivery of radiation to the human body, the possibility for significant injury or death exists. The tolerance for error in the design, manufacture, installation, servicing, support or use of our products may be small or nonexistent. We may also be subject to claims for property damage or economic loss related to, or resulting from, any errors or defects in our products, or the installation, servicing and support of the products, or any professional services rendered in conjunction with our products. Additionally, it is also possible that defects in the design or manufacture of our products might necessitate a product recall. For instance, components or enhancements to our treatment systems may contain undetected errors or performance problems that, despite testing, are discovered only after installation. Although we maintain product liability insurance for our products, the coverage limits of these policies may be inadequate to cover future claims. As sales of our products increase, we may be unable to maintain product liability insurance on acceptable terms or at reasonable costs, and such insurance may not provide us with adequate coverage for all potential liabilities. A successful claim brought against us relating to a liability that is in excess of our insurance coverage, or for which insurance coverage is denied or limited, would require us to pay damage amounts that could be substantial and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could divert management’s attention from our core business. We are subject to federal, state and foreign laws governing our business practices, which, if investigated or violated, could subject us to substantial costs and penalties, and cause adverse publicity. The federal Medicare and Medicaid anti-kickback laws, and similar laws in some states, prohibit any payments or other forms of remuneration that are intended to induce healthcare providers or their employees to refer patients or to purchase, or recommend to purchase, healthcare products and services for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs. These laws affect our sales and marketing activities by limiting the kinds of promotional and sales programs and financial arrangements we may offer or enter into with potential customers. The kinds of programs and practices that could be affected include our discount and rebate practices, support for customer education and training, consulting arrangements with customers, research collaborations and other similar arrangements. These laws constrain our sales, marketing and other promotional activities by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements, including sales programs, we may have with hospitals, physicians or other potential purchasers of medical devices. We have a variety of arrangements with our customers that could implicate these laws. For example, we provide research grants to some of our customers to support customer studies related to protocols in using the Hi Art system and other products. Due to the breadth of some of these laws, and the range of interpretations to which they are subject, it is possible that some of our current or future practices might be challenged under one or more of these laws. Other federal and state laws generally prohibit individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid or other third- 28 Table of Contents party payors that are false or fraudulent, or for items or services that were not provided as claimed. While we do not give our customers advice on coding or billing procedures performed using our products, we may inadvertently or informally provide billing or code information in response to customer inquiries regarding reimbursement for procedures. We cannot provide any assurance that the government will not view our inadvertent or informal statements regarding billing or coding to be advice, in which case we could be liable for providing erroneous advice. Anti-kickback and false claims laws prescribe civil and criminal penalties for noncompliance, which can be substantial. Even an unsuccessful challenge or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity, and be costly to respond to, and thus could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, antitrust, anti-competition and similar laws in other jurisdictions which, if violated, could lead to substantial liability. We could also face investigations by one or more government agencies that could be costly to respond to and divert the attention of key personnel from our business operations. An adverse outcome from any such investigation could subject us to fines or other penalties, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success will depend on our ability to effectively manage employee costs while also attracting and retaining qualified personnel. In October 2009, we implemented a restructuring program that resulted in a reduction of approximately 10% of our workforce, the second such reduction in a twelve-month time period. This second reduction particularly impacted our service organization. If these actions together do not result in proper alignment of human resources with business needs and revenue levels, our financial results may worsen. We may also need to reduce our workforce further to align with any further decline in our revenue. Our continued success will also depend on our ability to manage costs while at the same time retaining management personnel and qualified personnel with expertise in research and development, engineering, service, manufacturing, sales, marketing and finance. If we are unable to maintain an adequate number of trained, qualified and motivated personnel, particularly in our service organization, we may be unable to maintain adequate service levels or otherwise meet business objectives. As a result, our reputation and business operations could suffer, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may need to raise additional capital in the future and may be unable to do so on acceptable terms. This could limit our ability to grow and carry out our business plan. We believe that our cash reserves, investments and cash from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. If our estimates of revenue, expenses, or capital or liquidity requirements change or are inaccurate, or if cash generated from operations is insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may seek to borrow against our current bank facility, sell additional equity or arrange additional debt financing. In addition, we may seek to sell additional equity or arrange debt financing to give us financial flexibility to pursue attractive investment opportunities that may arise. We also cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain additional financing for this or other future projects on commercially reasonable terms or at all, particularly if the current economic conditions continue or worsen, which could limit our ability to grow and carry out our business plan. We cannot be certain that we will be able to renew our current one-year credit facility on commercially reasonable terms. There can be no assurance that additional financing will not be dilutive to our existing shareholders. If we raise additional funds through licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish potentially valuable rights to our products or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products, execute our business plan, take advantage of future opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated customer requirements. If any of these events occurs, there could be a material adverse effect to our business, financial condition and results of operations. 29 Table of Contents In April 2008, we invested in continued development of a new compact proton therapy system through a separate entity. If this development project is unsuccessful, or we are unable to raise the additional capital that may be necessary for this project on acceptable terms, our ability to diversify our business could be impaired. In April 2008, we announced our participation in a new venture, Compact Particle Acceleration Corporation (or CPAC), to continue development of our research initiative for a compact proton therapy system for the treatment of cancer. CPAC has and is continuing to seek investments from third parties to support development of this technology. We retain the option to purchase a portion of the CPAC stock held by CPAC investors in exchange for the right to commercialize the technology in the medical field, with the right first exercisable at the end of April 2010 and at any time thereafter through 2015. We cannot be certain that CPAC will be able to obtain all of the additional financing required for this project on commercially reasonable terms or that the technology development will be successful, any of which could limit our ability to grow and diversify our product portfolio. Even if CPAC is able to obtain financing and the technology development is successful, it may not have the resources to commercialize the compact proton system, the market requirements may change such that commercialization is no longer feasible, or we may not be in a position to finance our call right. If we are unable to diversify our business, we will continue to rely on a single product line for substantially all of our revenue, including all of the risks and fluctuations in revenue or profitability resulting from such reliance. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we are not able to meet the requirements of our license agreement with the Wisconsin Alumni Research Foundation, or WARF, we could lose access to the technologies licensed thereunder and be unable to manufacture, market or sell the TomoTherapy treatment systems. We license from WARF patents covering the multi-leaf collimator and other key technologies incorporated into the TomoTherapy treatment systems under a license agreement that requires us to pay royalties to WARF. In addition, the license agreement obligates us to pursue an agreed development plan and to submit periodic reports, and restricts our ability to take actions to defend the licensed patents. WARF has the right to unilaterally terminate the agreement if we do not meet certain minimum royalty obligations or satisfy other obligations related to our utilization of the technology. If WARF were to terminate the agreement or if we were to otherwise lose the ability to exploit the licensed patents, our competitive advantage would be reduced and we may not be able to find a source to replace the licensed technology. The license agreement reserves to WARF the initial right to defend or prosecute any claim arising with respect to the licensed technology. If WARF does not vigorously defend the patents, we may be required to engage in expensive patent litigation to enforce our rights, and any competitive advantage we have based on the licensed technology may be hampered. If we are not able to adequately protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology, our competitive position, future business prospects and financial performance will be adversely affected. Our success depends significantly on our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technologies used in our products. If we fail to obtain patents, we are unable to obtain patents with claims of a scope necessary to cover our technology, or our issued patents are determined to be invalid or to not cover our technology, our competitors could use portions of our intellectual property, which could weaken our competitive position. We have an active program to protect our proprietary inventions through the filing of patent applications and taking certain steps to preserve the confidentiality of our confidential and proprietary information. There can be no assurance, however, that: • current or future U.S. or foreign patent applications will be approved in a timely manner or at all; • our issued patents will protect our intellectual property and not be challenged by third parties; • we will develop patentable intellectual property; • the validity of our patents will be upheld; • the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on our ability to do business; or 30 Table of Contents • others will not independently develop similar or competing products or methods or design around any patents that may be issued to us. Although we have attempted to obtain patent coverage for our technology where available and appropriate, there are aspects of the technology for which patent coverage was never sought or never received. There are also countries in which we sell or intend to sell our products, but have no patents or pending patent applications. Our ability to prevent others from making or selling duplicate or similar technologies will be impaired in those countries in which we have no patent protection. We also may not be able to protect our patent rights effectively in some foreign countries. Moreover, as our patent portfolio matures, our patents will expire. Our current patent portfolios, both those licensed from third parties and those we own directly, are expected to expire at various dates between 2012 and 2027. As key patents expire, our ability to prevent competitors from copying our technology may be limited. In addition to patents, we rely on a combination of copyright, trade secret and other laws, and contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and transferring title, including confidentiality agreements with vendors, strategic partners, co-developers, employees, consultants and other third parties, to protect our proprietary rights. We cannot be certain that these contracts have not and will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary information will be sufficient to safeguard the technology underlying our products. We may initiate lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights, which could be expensive and, if we lose, could cause us to lose some of our intellectual property rights. There may be companies that are currently marketing, or may in the future market, products that compete with the TomoTherapy treatment systems in a direct challenge to our intellectual property position. In such cases, we may initiate litigation in order to stop them. We may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate, and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially valuable. Even if successful, litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patents against challenge could be expensive and time consuming and could divert our management’s attention from our core business. Litigation also puts our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Additionally, we may provoke third parties to assert claims against us. In addition, we may become involved in litigation to protect our trademark rights associated with our company name or our product names. Third parties may assert that our company name and product names infringe rights held by others or are ineligible for proprietary protection. If we have to change the name of our company or our products, we may experience a loss in goodwill associated with our brand name, customer confusion and a loss of sales. We may become subject to costly intellectual property litigation, which could affect our future business and financial performance. The medical device industry has been characterized by frequent intellectual property litigation. In particular, the field of radiation therapy for cancer is well-established and crowded with the intellectual property of competitors and others. A number of companies in our market, as well as universities and research institutions, have intellectual property, including patents and patent applications as well as trade secrets that relate to the use of radiation therapy to treat cancer. We have not conducted an extensive search of patents pending or issued to third parties, and no assurance can be given that third-party patents containing claims covering our products, technology or methods do not exist, have not been filed or could not be filed or issued. Because of the number of patents issued and patent applications filed in our technical areas or fields, our competitors or other third parties may assert that our products and the methods we employ in the use of our products are covered by United States or foreign patents held by them. As the number of competitors in the market for less invasive cancer treatment alternatives grows, and as the number of patents issued in this area grows, the possibility of patent infringement claims against us increases. Any such claim or litigation, regardless of merit, could cause us to incur substantial expenses and delay or materially disrupt the conduct of our business. We could also be required to pay a substantial damage award, develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty-bearing licensing agreements, if such licenses are available on terms 31 Table of Contents reasonable to us or at all, or stop selling our products. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. We may be subject to claims that our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. As is common in the medical device industry, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other medical equipment or biotechnology companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. Risks Related to Regulatory Matters Modifications, upgrades and future products related to the TomoTherapy treatment systems may require new FDA premarket approvals or 510(k) clearances, and such modifications or new products may also require us to recall or cease marketing one or more existing products until approvals or clearances are obtained. The TomoTherapy treatment systems are medical devices that are subject to extensive regulation in the United States and elsewhere, including by the FDA and its foreign counterparts. Before a new medical device, or a significant change involving a new use of or claim for an existing medical device, can be marketed in the United States, it must first receive either premarket approval or 510(k) clearance from the FDA, unless an exemption exists. Either process can be expensive and lengthy. The FDA’s 510(k) clearance process usually takes from three to twelve months, but can last longer. The process of obtaining premarket approval is much more costly and uncertain than the 510(k) clearance process and generally takes from one to three years, or even longer, from the time the application is filed with the FDA. Despite the time, effort and cost, there can be no assurance that any particular device will be approved or cleared by the FDA through either the premarket approval process or 510(k) clearance process. We have obtained 510(k) clearance from the FDA to market the TomoTherapy treatment systems for the treatment of tumors or other targeted tissues anywhere in the body where radiation therapy is indicated. An element of our strategy is to continue to upgrade the TomoTherapy treatment systems to incorporate new software and hardware enhancements that may require the approval of or clearance from the FDA or its foreign counterparts. Certain upgrades previously released by us required 510(k) clearance before we were able to offer them for sale. We expect that certain of our future upgrades to the TomoTherapy treatment systems will also require 510(k) clearance; however, future upgrades may be subject to the substantially more time-consuming and uncertain premarket review process. The FDA requires device manufacturers to determine whether or not a modification requires an approval or clearance. Any modification to an FDA approved or cleared device that would significantly affect its safety or efficacy or that would constitute a major change in its intended use would require a new premarket approval or 510(k) clearance. We have made modifications to the Hi Art system in the past and may make additional modifications to our products in the future that we believe do not or will not require additional approvals or clearances. If the FDA disagrees and requires us to obtain additional premarket approvals or 510(k) clearances for any modifications to our products and we fail to obtain such approvals or clearances or fail to secure approvals or clearances in a timely manner, we may be required to cease manufacturing and marketing the modified device or to recall modified devices until we obtain FDA approval or clearance. In addition, we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties. The FDA and equivalent agencies in other countries may change regulations or policies governing 510(k) clearances, premarket approvals or other regulatory requirements in a way that adversely affects our existing products and business. The FDA and its foreign counterparts regulate virtually all aspects of a medical device’s design, development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, record keeping, reporting, sale, promotion, distribution and shipping. The 32 Table of Contents FDA and its foreign counterparts may change these policies, adopt additional regulations, or revise existing regulations, each of which could prevent or delay premarket approval or 510(k) clearance of our device, or could impact our ability to market our currently cleared devices. The FDA, for example, has recently announced its intention to review the 510(k) process and consider enhancements that could impact future 510(k) submissions. Such enhancements could result in additional scrutiny by the FDA on 510(k) applications submitted that could result in delays and increased costs in obtaining FDA clearances, which could materially impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our products are subject to recalls even after receiving FDA clearance or approval, which would harm our reputation, business and financial results. We are subject to the medical device reporting regulations, which require us to report to the FDA if our products cause or contribute to a death or serious injury, or malfunction in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. The FDA and similar governmental bodies in other countries have the authority to require the recall of our products if we fail to comply with relevant regulations pertaining to manufacturing practices, labeling, advertising or promotional activities, or if new information is obtained concerning the safety or efficacy of our products. A government-mandated or voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of manufacturing defects, labeling deficiencies, packaging defects or other failures to comply with applicable regulations. Any recall would divert management attention and financial resources and could harm our reputation with customers. A recall involving one or more of the TomoTherapy treatment systems could be particularly harmful to our business, financial condition and results of operations given our relatively small size and the fact that we rely upon a single product line. If we or our distributors do not obtain and maintain the necessary regulatory approvals in a specific country, we will not be able to market and sell our products in that country. To be able to market and sell our products in a specific country, we or our distributors must comply with applicable regulations of that country. While the regulations of some countries do not impose barriers to marketing and selling our products or only require notification, others require that we or our distributors obtain the approval of a specified regulatory body. These regulations, including the requirements for approvals, and the time required for regulatory review vary from country to country. The governmental agencies regulating medical devices in some countries, for example, require that the user interface on medical device software be in the local language. We currently provide user guides, manuals and on-line, in the local language but only provide an English language version of the user interface. Obtaining regulatory approvals is expensive and time-consuming, and we cannot be certain that we or our distributors will receive regulatory approvals in each country in which we plan to market our products. If we modify our products, we or our distributors may need to apply for additional regulatory approvals before we are permitted to sell it. We may not continue to meet the quality and safety standards required to maintain the authorizations that we or our distributors have received. It can also be costly for us and our distributors to keep up with regulatory changes issued or mandated from time to time. If we change distributors, it may be time-consuming and disruptive to our business to transfer the required regulatory approvals, particularly if such approvals are maintained by our third-party distributors on our behalf. If we or our distributors are unable to maintain our authorizations, or fail to obtain appropriate authorizations, in a particular country, we will no longer be able to sell our products in that country, and our ability to generate revenue will be materially adversely affected. We must manufacture our products in accordance with federal and state regulations, and we could be forced to recall our installed systems or terminate production if we fail to comply with these regulations. We are required to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, which is a complex regulatory scheme that covers the procedures and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, sterilization, storage and shipping of our products. Furthermore, we are required to verify that our suppliers maintain facilities, procedures and operations that comply with our quality requirements. The FDA enforces the Quality System Regulation through periodic inspections. FDA inspections usually occur every two to three years. During such inspections, the FDA may issue reports, known as Form FDA 483 reports, listing instances where the manufacturer has failed to comply with applicable regulations and procedures, or warning letters. If the 33 Table of Contents manufacturer does not adequately respond to such reports or letters, the FDA may take enforcement action against the manufacturer, including the imposition of fines, restriction of the ability to export product, total shutdown of production facilities and criminal prosecution. If in the future we fail a Quality System Regulation inspection or receive a Form FDA 483 report, our operations could be disrupted and our manufacturing operations delayed. Failure to take adequate corrective action in response to a Quality System Regulation inspection could force a shutdown of our manufacturing operations and a recall of one or more of our products which, since we manufacture exclusively in the United States, could impact our business globally. In addition, because some foreign regulatory approvals are based on approvals or clearances from the FDA, any failure to comply with FDA requirements may also disrupt our sales of products in other countries. Our products are also subject to similar state regulations and various foreign laws and regulations, which could have similar consequences in a given state or country. If any of these events occurs, our reputation could be harmed, we could lose customers and there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are found to have violated laws protecting the confidentiality of patient health information, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, which could increase our liabilities and harm our reputation or our business. There are a number of federal and state laws protecting the confidentiality of certain patient health information, including patient records, and restricting the use and disclosure of that protected information. In particular, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services has promulgated patient privacy rules under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, as amended by the HITECH Act of 2009. These privacy rules protect medical records and other personal health information by limiting their use and disclosure, giving individuals the right to access, amend and seek accounting of their own health information and limiting most uses and disclosures of health information to the minimum amount reasonably necessary to accomplish the intended purpose. Although we are not a covered entity under HIPAA, we have entered into agreements with certain covered entities under which we are considered to be a “business associate” under HIPAA. As a business associate, we are required to implement policies, procedures and reasonable and appropriate security measures to protect individually identifiable health information we receive from covered entities. Our failure to protect health information received from customers could subject us to liability and adverse publicity, and could harm our business and impair our ability to attract new customers. In addition, if the firewall software protecting the information contained in the TomoTherapy treatment systems’ databases fail or someone is successful in hacking into the databases, we could face damage to our business reputation and possible litigation and regulatory action. Certain governmental agencies, such as the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and the Federal Trade Commission, have the authority to protect against the misuse of consumer information by targeting companies that collect, disseminate or maintain personal information in an unfair or deceptive manner. We are also subject to the laws of those foreign jurisdictions in which we sell our products, some of which currently have more protective privacy laws. If we fail to comply with applicable regulations in this area, our business and prospects could be harmed. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations in the United States and other countries that, if violated, could subject us to penalties and fines, which could increase our liabilities and harm our reputation or our business. We are required to comply with several regulations and directives currently issued by the European Union relating to hazardous substances and protection of the environment. For example, regulations in Europe referred to as the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (or WEEE) Directive, provide for the proper disposal of electrical equipment in a way that minimizes impact to the environment. The WEEE Directive imposes certain labeling and registration requirements on manufacturers of electrical equipment such as us. Similarly, the Reduction of Hazardous Substances (or RoHS) Directive generally applies to the electrical and electronics industries and seeks to disallow use of certain hazardous substances common in those types of products. The RoHS Directive initially exempted medical devices from compliance, but recently was amended to require new medical devices introduced after January 1, 2013 to be in compliance. Compliance with these and similar regulations in other jurisdictions will require us to undertake a number of initiatives to train our employees, modify our products or their labeling in 34 Table of Contents certain circumstances and otherwise impose additional costs on our business. Failure to comply may result in fines or other penalties, or result in disruption of sales of products in certain countries, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our common stock has only been publicly traded since May 2007, and its price may fluctuate substantially. Prior to our initial public offering in May 2007, there was no public market for shares of our common stock. Since that time, the market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly. The price of our common stock will continue to be affected by a number of factors, including: • fluctuations in quarterly revenue, net income and orders backlog; • regulatory developments related to the manufacturing, marketing or sale of our products; • announcements of technological innovations, new services or service enhancements, strategic alliances or significant agreements by us or by our competitors; • recruitment or departure of key personnel; • changes in the estimates of our operating results or new orders, or changes in recommendations by any securities analyst that elects to follow our common stock; • sales of large blocks of our common stock; and • changes in accounting principles or changes in interpretations of existing principles, which could affect our financial results. Share price fluctuations may be exaggerated if the trading volume of our common stock is low. The lack of a trading market may result in the loss of research coverage by securities analysts. Moreover, we cannot provide any assurance that any securities analysts will initiate or maintain research coverage of our company and our shares of common stock. If our future quarterly operating results are below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the price of our common stock would likely decline. Securities class action litigation, which is often brought against companies following periods of volatility, has been brought against us based on share price volatility in 2007 and 2008. Such claims could result in substantial expense and divert management’s attention from our business. Anti-takeover provisions included in our amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could delay or prevent a change of control of our company, which could materially adversely impact the value of our common stock and may prevent or frustrate attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our current management. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our Board of Directors that our shareholders might consider favorable. These provisions include the following: • our Board of Directors is authorized to issue preferred stock in series, with the designation, powers, preferences and rights of each series to be fixed by our Board of Directors; • a requirement that special meetings of shareholders be called only by our president, a majority of our Board of Directors, such officer(s) as our Board of Directors may authorize from time to time or by our president or secretary if a written request of the holders of record of at least 25% of all the votes entitled to be cast upon the matter(s) set forth as the purpose of the meeting in the written request is delivered to our president or secretary and such written requirements satisfies certain information requirements contained in our amended and restated bylaws; • advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals and nominations; and 35 Table of Contents • the ability of our Board of Directors to amend our bylaws except where our articles of incorporation or the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law reserves the power exclusively to our shareholders or our shareholders, in adopting, amending or repealing a particular bylaw, provide within the bylaws that our Board of Directors may not amend, repeal or readopt such bylaw. In addition, a change of control of our company may be discouraged, delayed or prevented by Sections 180.1140 to 180.1144 of the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law. These provisions generally restrict a broad range of business combinations between a Wisconsin corporation and a shareholder owning 10% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These and other provisions in our amended and restated articles of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and Wisconsin law could make it more difficult for shareholders or potential acquirers to obtain control of our Board of Directors or initiate actions that are opposed by the then-current Board of Directors, including to delay or impede a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our company. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our Board of Directors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 