ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to Our Business ITC Holdings is a holding company with no operations, and unless ITC Holdings receives dividends or other payments from ITCTransmission, ITC Holdings will be unable to pay dividends to its stockholders and fulfill its cash obligations. As a holding company with no business operations, ITC Holdings’ material assets consist only of the common stock of ITCTransmission (and any other subsidiaries ITC Holdings may own in the future) and ITC Holdings’ material cash inflows are only from dividends and other payments received from time to time from ITCTransmission or such subsidiaries and the proceeds raised from the sale of debt and equity securities. ITC Holdings may not be able to access cash generated by ITCTransmission in order to fulfill cash commitments or to pay dividends to stockholders. The ability of ITCTransmission to make dividend and other payments to ITC Holdings is subject to the availability of funds after taking into account ITCTransmission’s funding requirements, the terms of ITCTransmission’s indebtedness, the regulations of the FERC under the Federal Power Act, or the FPA, and applicable state laws. ITC Holdings relies, in part, upon dividends and other payments from ITCTransmission (and any other subsidiaries ITC Holdings may have in the future) to generate the funds necessary to fulfill its cash obligations. ITCTransmission, however, is legally distinct from ITC Holdings and has no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to make funds available to ITC Holdings. 8 Table of Contents Certain elements of ITCTransmission’s cost recovery through rates can be challenged which could result in lowered rates and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. ITCTransmission provides transmission service under rates regulated by the FERC. The FERC has approved ITCTransmission’s rate setting formula under Attachment O, but it has not expressly approved the amount of ITCTransmission’s actual capital and operating expenditures to be used in that formula. In addition, all aspects of ITCTransmission’s rates approved by the FERC, including the Attachment O rate mechanism, ITCTransmission’s allowed 13.88% return on the equity portion of its capital structure, and the data inputs provided by ITCTransmission for calculation of each year’s rate, are subject to challenge by interested parties at the FERC in a Section 206 proceeding under the FPA. If a challenger can establish that any of these aspects are unjust, unreasonable, imprudent or unduly discriminatory, then the FERC will make appropriate adjustments to them and/or disallow ITCTransmission’s inclusion of those aspects in the rate setting formula. This could result in lowered rates and an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The regulations to which we are subject may limit our ability to raise capital and/or pursue acquisition or development opportunities or other transactions. ITCTransmission is a “public utility” under the FPA and, accordingly, is subject to regulation by the FERC. Approval of the FERC is required under Section 203 of the FPA for a disposition or acquisition of regulated public utility facilities, either directly or indirectly through a holding company. Such approval also is required to acquire securities in a public utility. Under the recently enacted Energy Policy Act, Section 203 of the FPA also provides the FERC with explicit authority over utility holding companies’ purchases or acquisitions of, and mergers or consolidations with, a public utility. Finally, ITCTransmission must also seek approval by the FERC under Section 204 of the FPA for issuances of its securities. Changes in federal energy laws, regulations or policies could impact cash flows and could reduce the dividends we may be able to pay our stockholders. The Attachment O rate setting mechanism used by ITCTransmission has only been approved through January 31, 2008, subject to further extension that must be approved by the FERC. After January 31, 2008, we cannot predict whether the FERC will change its policies or regulations or whether the approved transmission rates, rate determination mechanism or methodologies will be changed. Any changes could significantly decrease our revenues and cash flows and ITC Holdings’ ability to pay dividends to its stockholders and meet its obligations. Transmission costs constitute a relatively small portion of end-use consumers’ overall electric utility costs. However, some large institutional end-use consumers may attempt to influence government and/or regulators to change the rate setting system that applies to ITCTransmission, particularly if rates for delivered electricity increase substantially. ITCTransmission is regulated by the FERC as a “public utility” under the FPA. The FERC could propose new policies and regulations concerning transmission services or rate setting methodologies. In addition, the U.S. Congress periodically considers enacting energy legislation that could shift new additional responsibilities to the FERC, modify provisions of the FPA or provide the FERC or another entity with increased authority to regulate transmission matters. ITCTransmission cannot predict whether, and to what extent, it may be affected by any such changes in federal energy laws, regulations or policies in the future. If the network load on ITCTransmission’s transmission system is lower than expected, our revenues would be reduced. If the network load on ITCTransmission’s transmission system is lower than expected due to weather, a weak economy, changes in the nature or composition of the transmission grid in Michigan or surrounding regions, poor transmission quality of neighboring transmission systems, or for any other reason, it would reduce our revenues until and unless such circumstances are adjusted for in ITCTransmission’s formula rate mechanism. ITCTransmission’s operating results fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis. Demand for electricity is largely dependent on weather conditions. As a result, ITCTransmission’s overall operating results typically fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis, thereby impacting ITCTransmission’s and our operating results. In general, ITCTransmission’s revenues typically are higher in summer months, although a particularly cool summer could reduce electricity demand and revenues for that period as compared to the same period of the previous year. ITCTransmission depends on Detroit Edison, its primary customer, for a substantial portion of its revenues, and any material failure by Detroit Edison to make payments for transmission services would adversely affect our revenues and our ability to service ITCTransmission’s and our debt obligations. ITCTransmission derives a substantial portion of its revenues from the transmission of electricity between Detroit Edison’s power generation facilities and Detroit Edison’s local distribution facilities. Payments from Detroit Edison, billed by MISO, constituted approximately 77% of ITCTransmission’s total operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005 and are expected to constitute the majority of ITCTransmission’s revenues for the foreseeable future. Any material failure by Detroit Edison to make payments for transmission services would adversely affect our revenues and our ability to service ITCTransmission’s and our debt obligations. 9 Table of Contents Deregulation and/or increased competition may adversely affect ITCTransmission’s customers, or Detroit Edison’s customers, which in turn may reduce our revenues. The business of ITCTransmission’s primary customer, Detroit Edison, is subject to regulation that has undergone substantial change in accordance with Michigan Public Act 141 of 2000, which mandates the implementation of retail access, as well as changes in federal regulatory requirements. The utility industry has also been undergoing dramatic structural change for several years, resulting in increasing competitive pressures on electric utility companies, such as Detroit Edison, and it is possible that trend could continue. Finally, the manufacturing sector in Detroit Edison’s service territory has also been subject to increasing competitive pressures. As a result, demand for electricity transmission service by manufacturing companies in ITCTransmission’s service territory may be negatively impacted. These factors may create greater risks to the stability of Detroit Edison’s revenues and may affect Detroit Edison’s ability to make its payments for transmission service to MISO and thus to ITCTransmission, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. On April 1, 2005, MISO began centrally dispatching generation resources throughout much of the Midwest with the launch of its Midwest Energy Markets. Because of this restructuring of power markets throughout the Midwest, the risk profile of some of ITCTransmission’s customers may affect their ability to pay for the services provided by ITCTransmission. Hazards associated with high-voltage electricity transmission may result in suspension of ITCTransmission’s operations or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. ITCTransmission’s operations are subject to the usual hazards associated with high-voltage electricity transmission, including explosions, fires, inclement weather, natural disasters, mechanical failure, unscheduled downtime, equipment interruptions, remediation, chemical spills, discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases and other environmental risks. The hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and environmental damage, and may result in suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. We maintain property and casualty insurance, but we are not fully insured against all potential hazards incident to our business, such as damage to poles and towers or losses caused by outages. ITCTransmission is subject to environmental regulations and to laws that can give rise to substantial liabilities from environmental contamination. ITCTransmission’s operations are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, which impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the environment, establish standards for the management, treatment, storage, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials and of solid and hazardous wastes, and impose obligations to investigate and remediate contamination in certain circumstances. Liabilities to investigate or remediate contamination, as well as other liabilities concerning hazardous materials or contamination such as claims for personal injury or property damage, may arise at many locations, including formerly owned or operated properties and sites where wastes have been treated or disposed of, as well as at properties currently owned or operated by ITCTransmission. Such liabilities may arise even where the contamination does not result from noncompliance with applicable environmental laws. Under a number of environmental laws, such liabilities may also be joint and several, meaning that a party can be held responsible for more than its share of the liability involved, or even the entire share. Environmental requirements generally have become more stringent in recent years, and compliance with those requirements more expensive. ITCTransmission has incurred expenses in connection with environmental compliance, and we anticipate that it will continue to do so in the future. Failure to comply with the extensive environmental laws and regulations applicable to it could result in significant civil or criminal penalties and remediation costs. ITCTransmission’s assets and operations also involve the use of materials classified as hazardous, toxic, or otherwise dangerous. Some of ITCTransmission’s facilities and properties are located near environmentally sensitive areas such as wetlands. In addition, certain properties in which ITCTransmission has an ownership interest or at which ITCTransmission operates are, and others are suspected of being, affected by environmental contamination. Compliance with these laws and regulations, and liabilities concerning contamination or hazardous materials, may adversely affect our costs and, therefore our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, claims have been made or threatened against electric utilities for bodily injury, disease or other damages allegedly related to exposure to electromagnetic fields associated with electricity transmission and distribution lines. We cannot assure you that such claims will not be asserted against us or that, if determined in a manner adverse to our interests, would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents Acts of war, terrorist attacks and threats or the escalation of military activity in response to such attacks or otherwise may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Acts of war, terrorist attacks and threats or the escalation of military activity in response to such attacks or otherwise may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations in unpredictable ways, such as increased security measures and disruptions of markets. Strategic targets, such as energy related assets, including, for example, ITCTransmission’s transmission facilities and Detroit Edison’s generation and distribution facilities, may be at risk of future terrorist attacks. In addition to the increased costs associated with heightened security requirements, such events may have an adverse effect on the economy in general. A lower level of economic activity could result in a decline in energy consumption, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Capital Structure and Leverage Because we are controlled by the IT Holdings Partnership, the ability of stockholders of ITC Holdings, other than the IT Holdings Partnership, to influence our management and policies will be severely limited. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 53.4% of the outstanding shares of common stock of ITC Holdings was beneficially owned by the IT Holdings Partnership. Consequently, the IT Holdings Partnership has the power to determine matters submitted to a vote of ITC Holdings stockholders without the consent of ITC Holdings other stockholders and could take other actions that might be favorable to the IT Holdings Partnership or its partners, including electing all of ITC Holdings’ directors, appointing new management and adopting amendments to ITC Holdings’ Articles of Incorporation and bylaws. In addition, the ability of stockholders, other than the IT Holdings Partnership, to influence our management and policies will be severely limited, including with respect to our acquisition or disposition of assets, the approval of a merger or similar business combination, the incurrence of indebtedness, the issuance of additional shares of common stock or other equity securities and the payment of dividends or other distributions on our common stock. In addition, we cannot take certain actions that would adversely affect the limited partners of the IT Holdings Partnership without their approval. We cannot assure you that the interests of the IT Holdings Partnership and/or its limited partners will not conflict with the interests of other holders of our common stock. We are highly leveraged and our dependence on debt may limit our ability to pay dividends and/or obtain additional financing. We had $517.3 million of consolidated indebtedness as of December 31, 2005. ITCTransmission had $185.0 million of 4.45% First Mortgage Bonds Series A due July 15, 2013 and ITC Holdings had $267.0 million of 5.25% Senior Notes due July 15, 2013 outstanding as of December 31, 2005. Additionally, we had total revolving credit facility commitments at ITCTransmission and ITC Holdings of $75.0 million and $50.0 million, respectively, and amounts outstanding of $66.3 million at ITCTransmission at December 31, 2005. There are no amounts outstanding under the ITC Holdings revolving credit facility. In February 2006 the FERC approved ITCTransmission’s January 2006 application to issue additional securities in the amount of $100.0 million. This capital structure can have several important consequences, including, but not limited to, the following: • If future cash flows are insufficient, we or our subsidiaries may need to incur further indebtedness in order to make the capital expenditures and other expenses or investments planned by us. • ITC Holdings’ indebtedness will have the general effect of reducing its flexibility to react to changing business and economic conditions insofar as they affect its financial condition and, therefore, may pose substantial risk to ITC Holdings’ stockholders. A substantial portion of the dividends and payments in lieu of taxes ITC Holdings receives from ITCTransmission will be dedicated to the payment of interest on its indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available for the payment of dividends on our common stock. • In the event that ITC Holdings is liquidated, any senior or subordinated creditors of ITC Holdings and any senior or subordinated creditors of our subsidiaries will be entitled to payment in full prior to any distributions to the holders of shares of common stock of ITC Holdings. • Our credit facilities mature in March 2007, and our ability to secure additional financing prior to or after that time, if needed, may be substantially restricted by the existing level of our indebtedness and the restrictions contained in our debt instruments. Adverse changes in our credit ratings may negatively affect us. Our ability to access capital markets is important to operate our business. Increased scrutiny of the energy industry and the impacts of regulation, as well as changes in our financial performance could result in credit agencies reexamining our credit rating. A downgrade in our credit rating could restrict or discontinue our ability to access capital markets at attractive rates and increase our borrowing costs. A rating downgrade could also increase the interest we pay under our revolving credit facility. 11 Table of Contents ITCTransmission’s actual capital expenditures may be lower than planned, which would decrease ITCTransmission’s expected rate base and therefore our revenues. ITCTransmission’s rate base is determined in part by additions to property, plant and equipment when placed in service. ITCTransmission expects to invest at least $125 million in additional property, plant and equipment in 2006. Additionally, 2006 is the second year of a five to seven year capital investment program where we expect to invest a total of $1 billion in needed infrastructure improvements to the transmission system. If ITCTransmission’s capital expenditures and the resulting in-service property, plant and equipment are lower than anticipated for any reason, including, among other things, the impact of weather conditions, union strikes, labor shortages, material prices and availability, our ability to obtain financing for such expenditures, if necessary, limitations on the amount of construction that can be undertaken on our system at any one time or regulatory approvals for reasons relating to environmental, siting or regional planning issues or as a result of legal proceedings, ITCTransmission will have a lower than anticipated rate base thus causing its revenue requirement and future earnings to be potentially lower than anticipated. Certain provisions in our debt instruments limit our capital flexibility. Our debt instruments include senior notes and first mortgage bonds and revolving credit facilities containing numerous financial and operating covenants that place significant restrictions on, among other things, our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • engage in sale and lease-back transactions; • create liens or other encumbrances; • enter into mergers, consolidations, liquidations or dissolutions, or sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and • pay dividends or make distributions on ITC Holdings and ITCTransmission’s capital stock. The revolving credit facilities also require ITC Holdings and ITCTransmission to meet certain financial ratios. The ability of ITC Holdings and ITCTransmission to comply with these and other requirements and restrictions may be affected by changes in economic or business conditions, results of operations or other events beyond our control. A failure to comply with the obligations contained in the senior secured credit facilities could result in acceleration of the related debt and the acceleration of debt under other instruments evidencing indebtedness that may contain cross acceleration or cross default provisions. Our ability to raise capital may be restricted which may, in turn, restrict our ability to make capital expenditures or dividend payments to our stockholders. Because the IT Holdings Partnership may seek to maintain its beneficial ownership percentage of ITC Holdings and may not choose to acquire additional shares of our common stock in connection with any future issuances of shares of our common stock by us, we may be constrained in our ability to raise equity capital in the future from sources other than the limited partners of the IT Holdings Partnership and their affiliates. Moreover, we cannot assure that the IT Holdings Partnership will make any capital contributions to us in the future. If we are unable to raise capital and we do not receive capital contributions from the IT Holdings Partnership in the future, our ability to make capital expenditures or dividend payments to our stockholders may be limited. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange rules and, as a result, qualify for and rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. IT Holdings Partnership controls a majority of our outstanding common stock. As a result, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, corporate governance standards. Under the NYSE rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, group or another company is a “controlled company” and may elect not to comply with certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, including: • the requirement that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors; • the requirement that we have a nominating/corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; • the requirement that we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; and • the requirement for an annual performance evaluation of the nominating/corporate governance and compensation committees. We have utilized certain of these exemptions. As a result, we do not have a majority of independent directors nor do our nominating/corporate governance and compensation committees consist entirely of independent directors. Accordingly, you do not 12 Table of Contents have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. Future transactions may limit our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards. As of December 31, 2005, we had net operating loss carryforwards, or NOLs, of $68.1 million. These NOLs may be used to offset future taxable income and thereby reduce our U.S. federal income taxes otherwise payable. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, imposes an annual limit on the ability of a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” to use its NOLs to reduce its tax liability. It is possible that future transactions (including issuances of new shares of our common stock and sales of shares of our common stock), would cause us to undergo an ownership change. In that event, we would not be able to use our pre-ownership change NOLs in excess of the limitation imposed by Section 382. We may not be able to pay dividends, and the reduction or elimination of dividends would negatively affect the market price of our common stock. While we currently intend to continue to pay quarterly dividends on our common stock, we have no obligation to do so. Dividend payments are within the absolute discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, working capital requirements, capital expenditure requirements, financial condition, contractual restrictions, anticipated cash needs and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. For example, we may not generate sufficient cash from operations in the future to pay dividends on our common stock in the intended amounts or at all. In addition, ITC Holdings is a holding company and its ability to pay dividends may be limited by restrictions upon transfer of funds applicable to its subsidiaries (including, for example, those which are contained in ITCTransmission’s revolving credit facility and the IT Holdings Partnership agreement). As a holding company without any specific operations, ITC Holdings is dependent on receiving dividends from its operating subsidiaries, such as ITCTransmission, in order to be able to make dividend distributions of its own. Any reduction or elimination of dividends could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Provisions in the Articles of Incorporation and bylaws of ITC Holdings and Michigan corporate law may prevent efforts by our stockholders to change the direction or management of our company. The Articles of Incorporation and bylaws of ITC Holdings contain provisions that might enable our management to resist a proposed takeover. These provisions could discourage, delay or prevent a change of control or an acquisition at a price that our stockholders may find attractive. These provisions also may discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. The existence of these provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions include: • a requirement that special meetings of our stockholders may be called only by our board of directors, the chairman of our board of directors, our president or the holders of a majority of the shares of our outstanding common stock; • a requirement of unanimity when stockholders are acting by consent without a meeting if the IT Holdings Partnership owns less than 35% of the common stock of ITC Holdings; • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; and • the authority of our board to issue, without stockholder approval, common or preferred stock, including in connection with our implementation of any stockholders rights plan, or “poison pill.” Provisions of the Articles of Incorporation of ITC Holdings restrict market participants from voting or owning 5% or more of the outstanding shares of capital stock of ITC Holdings. ITCTransmission was granted favorable rate treatment by the FERC based on its independence from market participants. The FERC defines a “market participant” as any person or entity that, either directly or through an affiliate, sells or brokers electricity or provides ancillary services to ITCTransmission or MISO. An affiliate, for these purposes, includes any person or entity that directly or indirectly owns, controls or holds with the power to vote 5% or more of the outstanding voting securities of a market participant. To help ensure that ITC Holdings and ITCTransmission will remain independent of market participants, ITC Holdings’ Articles of Incorporation impose certain restrictions on the ownership and voting of shares of capital stock of ITC Holdings by market participants. In particular, the Articles of Incorporation provide that ITC Holdings is restricted from issuing any shares of capital stock or recording any transfer of shares if the issuance or transfer would cause any market participant, either individually or together with members of its “group” (as defined in SEC beneficial ownership rules), to beneficially own 5% or more of any class or series of our capital stock. Additionally, if a market participant, together with its group members, acquires beneficial ownership of 5% or more of any series of the outstanding shares of capital stock of ITC Holdings, such market participant or any stockholder who is a member of a group including a market participant will not be able to vote or direct or control the votes of shares representing 5% or more of any series of ITC Holdings’ outstanding capital stock. Finally, to the extent a market participant, together with its group members, acquires beneficial ownership of 5% or more of the outstanding shares of any series of capital stock of ITC Holdings, the Articles of Incorporation allow the board of directors of ITC Holdings to redeem any shares of capital stock of ITC Holdings so that, 13 Table of Contents after giving effect to the redemption, the market participant, together with its group members, will cease to beneficially own 5% or more of that series of ITC Holdings’ outstanding capital stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 