Item 1A. Risk Factors The risk factors listed in this section and other factors noted herein or incorporated by reference could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. The following risk factors, in addition to the information discussed elsewhere herein, should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our business: Risks Related to Our Business Our independent auditors have expressed a reservation that we can continue as a going concern. We are reporting net losses for the year ended December 31, 2009 and currently anticipate losses for 2010. These cumulative losses, in addition to our current liquidity situation, raise substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern for a period longer than the current fiscal year. Our ability to continue as a going concern depends on the achievement of profitable operations or the success of our financial and strategic alternatives process, which includes the Asset Sale. Until the possible completion of the financial and strategic alternatives process, the Company’s future remains uncertain, and there can be no assurance that our efforts in this regard will be successful. We may file for bankruptcy protection, or an involuntary petition for bankruptcy may be filed against us. If our debt is accelerated due to a default by us, our assets may not be sufficient to repay our debt in full, and our available cash flow may not be adequate to maintain our current operations. Under those circumstances, or if we believe those circumstances are likely to occur, we may be required to seek protection under court supervision pursuant to a voluntary bankruptcy filing under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. In addition, under certain circumstances creditors may file an involuntary petition for bankruptcy against us. If we file for bankruptcy protection, our business and operations will be subject to certain risks. A bankruptcy filing under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code would subject our business and operations to various risks, including but not limited to, the following: • Our suppliers may attempt to cancel our contracts or restrict ordinary credit terms, require financial assurances of performance or refrain entirely from doing business with us; • Our employees may become distracted from performance of their duties or more easily attracted to other career opportunities; • The coordination of a bankruptcy filing and operating under protection of the bankruptcy court would involve significant costs, including expenses of legal counsel and other professional advisors; • We may have difficulty continuing to obtain and maintain contracts necessary to continue our operations and at affordable rates with competitive terms; • We may have difficulty maintaining existing and building new relationships; 10 Table of Contents • Transactions outside the ordinary course of business would be subject to the prior approval of the Bankruptcy Court, which may limit our ability to respond timely to certain events or take advantage of certain opportunities; • We may not be able to obtain court approval or such approval may be delayed with respect to motions made in the bankruptcy proceedings; • We may be unable to retain and motivate key executives and associates through the process of a Chapter 11 reorganization, and we may have difficulty attracting new employees; • There can be no assurance as to our ability to maintain or obtain sufficient financing sources for operations or to fund any reorganization plan and meet future obligations; • There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop, confirm and consummate one or more plans of reorganization that are acceptable to the bankruptcy court and our creditors, and other parties in interest; and • The value of our common stock could be affected as a result of a bankruptcy filing. As with any judicial proceeding, a Chapter 11 proceeding (even if there is a pre-packaged or pre-arranged plan of reorganization) involves the potential for significant delays in reaching a final resolution. In a Chapter 11 proceeding, there are risks of delay with the confirmation of the plan of reorganization and there are risks of objections from certain stakeholders, including any creditors that vote to reject the plan, that could further delay the process and potentially cause a plan of reorganization to be rejected by the court. Any material delay in the confirmation of a Chapter 11 proceeding would compound the risks described above and add substantial expense and uncertainty to the process. Our success in meeting our obligations and obtaining waivers of covenant violations from our lenders in the next twelve months relies in large part, upon whether our business continues to experience significant declines in revenue. If we continue to experience similar significant declines in revenue, our ability to obtain waivers of covenant violations may be unsuccessful and we may be unable to meet our payment obligations, especially if payment requirements are accelerated by our lenders. Our ability to meet covenant restrictions on our loan agreements is primarily based on current conditions in our market and expected future developments, especially if we continue to experience significant declines in revenue, as well as other factors. Whether actual future results and developments will be consistent with our recent financial performance depends on a number of factors, including but not limited to: • Our customers’ confidence in our ability to serve their needs and our ability to continue to attract customers, particularly for new upcoming projects; • The financial viability of our suppliers and our ability to purchase concrete materials from our key suppliers at competitive prices; • Our ability to manage our batch plants and aggregate pit production facilities as needed to manage production volume with the least amount of cost and to complete other planned asset sales; • Our ability to obtain adequate backlog to offset continued revenue declines and our ability to execute on backlog at improved margins; • The overall strength and stability of general economic conditions and of the ready-mix concrete industry, in the Phoenix, Arizona and Las Vegas, Nevada metropolitan areas. Inadequate liquidity could materially adversely affect our business operations in the future and threaten our ability to continue as a going concern. We require substantial liquidity to maintain our production facilities, meet scheduled term debt and lease obligations and run our normal business operations. If we continue to operate at or close to the minimum cash levels necessary to support our normal business operations, we will be forced to further curtail capital spending and other programs that are important to the future success of our business. Our suppliers might respond to an apparent weakening of our liquidity position by requesting quicker payment of invoices or other assurances. If this were to happen, our need for cash would be intensified, and we might be unable to make payments to our suppliers as they become due. 11 Table of Contents Our efforts to continue to maintain adequate liquidity will be very challenging given the current business environment and the immediate working capital requirements of our business. We anticipate that the effect on working capital of reductions in production volume will result in significant liquidity needs during 2010. Our ability to maintain adequate liquidity through 2010 will depend significantly on the volume and sales prices of cubic yards of concrete sold, the continuing curtailment of operating expenses and capital spending and the availability of additional short-term financing and the completion of some of our planned asset sales. We are not in compliance with certain covenants in of our credit agreements with our lenders. At December 31, 2009, we are not in compliance with various covenants that are required pursuant to our credit agreements with our lenders. We are not pursuing waivers and amendments with our lenders at this time. Our loans could become immediately due and payable and our lenders could proceed against our property and equipment securing the loans. If our lenders were to accelerate the payment requirements, we would not have sufficient liquidity to pay off the related debt and there would be a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Further, if we are not able to refinance the debt and our lenders seized our property and equipment, we may not be able to continue as a going concern. We are currently losing money, may need additional financing, and may not be able to obtain it on favorable terms or at all. As a result of the expansion efforts after our initial public offering in August 2005, we entered into debt and operating lease obligations which, in turn, increased our total fixed minimum monthly payment obligations. As a result of the downturn in the economy, operations did not provide the cash flow needed to meet the monthly obligations and cash reserves were utilized. Our ability to meet our debt and lease obligations and to fund our working capital needs will depend on the state of the economy generally and on our future operating performance and financial results, all of which will be subject in part to factors beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our cash flow from operations, combined with our existing cash and cash equivalents, will be adequate to meet our debt and operating lease obligations and our working capital needs over the next 12 months, particularly if our lenders accelerate our payment requirements. If we are unable to generate cash flow from operations sufficient to cover these obligations and needs, and if we are unable to borrow sufficient funds, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt or obtain additional financing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance our debt, sell assets or borrow more money on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In addition, the terms of certain of our debt restricts our ability to sell assets and our use of the proceeds therefrom. We are and will continue to be subject to conflicts of interest resulting from Meadow Valley Parent Corp.’s control of us, and we do not have any procedures in place to resolve such conflicts. Meadow Valley Parent Corp. (“Parent”) owns approximately 69% of our outstanding common stock and may be able to control our business. Parent also wholly owns Meadow Valley and Meadow Valley’s chief executive officer, chief administrative officer and chief financial officer also serve us in similar capacities. We also sell a small amount of concrete to Meadow Valley. These relationships could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when Meadow Valley’s officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for Meadow Valley and us. These decisions could result in reducing our profitability. Also, the appearance of conflicts, even if such conflicts do not materialize, might adversely affect the investing public’s perception of us. We do not have any formal procedure for resolving such conflicts of interest. We are at risk of a change in control of ownership. Based on a Schedule 13D filed by Parent on February 5, 2009, Parent pledged 100% of the shares of Common Stock it owns in Ready Mix (the “Ready Mix Shares”) to LBC Credit Partners II, L.P., as agent (“Agent”), as security for a portion of the debt financing obtained in connection with the recent acquisition of Meadow Valley by affiliates of Insight Equity Holdings LLC pursuant to a pledge agreement dated February 2, 2009 (the “Pledge Agreement”). The pledge of the Ready Mix Shares includes all rights associated with the ownership of the Ready Mix Shares, including the right to receive or the power to direct the receipt of dividends from, or the proceeds from 12 Table of Contents the sale of, the Ready Mix Shares. In the event the Agent exercises its rights under the Pledge Agreement to take ownership of the Ready Mix Shares, a change in control of the Company could occur. At any given time, one or a limited number of customers may account for a large percentage of our revenue, which means that we face a greater risk of loss of revenue and a reduction in our profitability if we lose a major customer or if a major customer faces financial difficulties. At times a small number of customers have generated a large percentage of our revenue in any given period. For the year ended December 31, 2009, our largest customer provided approximately 9.9% of our revenue and our ten largest customers collectively provided approximately 44.7% of our revenue. In 2008, one customer provided approximately 9.1% of our revenue and our ten largest customers collectively provided approximately 49.4% of our revenue. In 2007, one customer provided approximately 7.7% of our revenue and our ten largest customers collectively provided approximately 47.8% of our revenue. Companies that constitute our largest customers vary from year to year, and our revenue from individual customers fluctuates each year. If we lose one or more major customers or if any of these customers face financial difficulties, our revenue could be substantially reduced, thereby reducing our profitability. We may not meet our minimum purchase agreement obligations. Our purchase agreement obligations require us to purchase a minimum quantity of aggregate product in any given purchase year. If we fail to meet this minimum requirement the purchase agreement obligator has the right to charge us the equivalent of the required minimum quantity purchases, as stipulated in the agreement, less our actual purchases without providing any additional product. We may lose business to competitors who underbid us or who have greater resources to supply larger jobs than we have, and we may be otherwise unable to compete favorably in our highly competitive industry. Our competitive position in a given market depends largely on the location and operating costs of our ready-mix concrete plants and prevailing prices in that market. Price is a primary competitive factor among suppliers for small or simple jobs, principally in residential construction, while timeliness of delivery and consistency of quality and service, in addition to price, are the principal competitive factors among suppliers for large or complex jobs. Our competitors range from small, owner-operated private companies offering simple mixes to subsidiaries or operating units of large, vertically integrated cement manufacturing and concrete products companies. Our vertically integrated competitors generally have greater manufacturing, financial and marketing resources than we, providing them with a competitive advantage. Competitors having lower operating costs than we do or having the financial resources to enable them to accept lower margins than we do will have a competitive advantage over us for larger jobs which are particularly price-sensitive. Competitors having greater financial resources than we do to invest in new mixer trucks or build plants in new areas also have competitive advantages over us. We depend on third parties for cement, fly ash, aggregates and other supplies essential to operate our business. The loss of any such suppliers could impact our ability to provide concrete to, or otherwise service our customers, as well as our ability to retain and attract customers. We rely on third parties to provide us with supplies, including cement and other raw materials, necessary for our operations. We cannot be sure that these relationships will continue in the future or that raw materials will continue to be available to us when required and at a reasonable price. If shortages of cement or other raw materials were to occur, we might be unable to meet our supply commitments to our customers which would severely impact our ability to retain and attract new customers. 13 Table of Contents Our operating results may vary significantly from reporting period to reporting period and may be adversely affected by the cyclical nature of the ready-mix concrete markets we serve, causing significant reductions in our revenue. Our business and the business environment which supports the ready-mix concrete business can be cyclical in nature. As a result, our revenue may be significantly reduced as a result of declines in construction in Nevada and Arizona caused by: • the level of residential and commercial construction in Nevada and Arizona; • the availability of funds for public or infrastructure construction from local, state and federal sources; • changes in interest rates; • availability of credit; • variations in the margins of jobs performed during any particular quarter; and • the budgetary spending patterns of our customers. As a result, our operating results in any particular quarter may not be indicative of the results that you can expect for any other quarter or for the entire year. Furthermore, negative trends in the ready-mix concrete industry or in our markets could reduce our revenue, thereby decreasing our gross profit and reducing our profitability. Our business is seasonal, causing quarterly variations in our revenue and earnings, which in turn could negatively affect our stock price. The construction industry, even in Arizona and Nevada, is seasonal in nature, often as a result of adverse weather conditions, with significantly stronger construction activity in the second and third calendar quarters, than in the first and fourth quarters. Such seasonality or unanticipated inclement weather could cause our quarterly revenue and earnings to vary significantly. Because of our relatively small size, even a short acceleration or delay in filling customers’ orders can have a material adverse effect on our financial results in a given reporting period. Our varying quarterly results may result in a decline in our common stock price if investors react to our reporting operating results which are less favorable than in a prior period or than those anticipated by investors or the financial community generally. Governmental regulations covering the ready-mix concrete industry, including environmental regulations, may result in increases in our operating costs and capital expenditures and decreases in our earnings. A wide range of federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations apply to our production of ready-mix concrete, including: • zoning regulations affecting plant locations; • restrictions on street and highway usage; • US Department of Transportation regulations; • limitations on noise levels; and • regulation of health, safety and environmental matters. In many instances, we must have various certificates, permits or licenses in order to conduct our business. Our failure to maintain required certificates, permits or licenses or to comply with applicable governmental requirements could result in substantial fines or possible revocation of our authority to conduct some of our operations. Governmental requirements that impact our ready-mix concrete operations also include those relating to air quality, solid waste management and water quality. These requirements are complex and subject to frequent change. They impose strict liability in some cases without regard to negligence or fault and expose us to liability for the conduct of, or conditions caused by others, or for our acts that may otherwise have complied with all applicable requirements when we performed them. Our compliance with amended, new or more stringent requirements, stricter interpretations of existing requirements or the future discovery of environmental conditions may require us to make material expenditures we currently do not anticipate, thereby decreasing our earnings, if any. 14 Table of Contents There are special risks related to our operating and internal growth strategies that could adversely affect our operating practices and overall profitability. One key component of our strategy is to operate our businesses on a decentralized basis, with local Phoenix and Las Vegas metro-wide management retaining responsibility for day-to-day operations, profitability and the internal growth of the local business. If we do not maintain proper overall internal controls, this decentralized operating strategy could result in inconsistent operating and financial practices and our overall profitability could be adversely affected. Our internal growth will also be affected by local management’s ability to: • attract new customers and retain existing customers; • differentiate our company in a competitive market by successfully emphasizing the quality of our products and our service; • hire and retain mixer truck drivers and other specialized employees; and • place orders for new equipment on a timely basis to meet production needs. The departure of key personnel could disrupt our business and limit our growth, as this growth requires the hiring of new local senior managers and executive officers. We depend on the continued efforts of our executive officers, some of whom are executive officers of Meadow Valley, and, in many cases, on our local senior management. In addition, any future growth will impose significant additional responsibilities on members of our senior management and executive officers. The success of our operations, which is based upon a decentralized management, will depend on recruiting new local senior level managers and officers, and we cannot be certain that we can recruit and retain such additional managers and officers. To the extent we are unable to attract and retain qualified management personnel, our growth could be limited and our business could be disrupted, resulting in decreased revenue and increased costs associated with the loss of experienced managers responsible for generating new clients, marketing and cost containment efforts. If some or all of our employees unionize, it could result in increases in our operating costs, disruptions in our business and decreases in our earnings. If our employees were to become represented by a labor union, we could experience disruptions of our operations caused by labor strikes or slow downs as well as higher ongoing labor costs, which could increase our overall costs to do business. In addition, the coexistence of union and non-union employees on particular jobs may lead to conflicts between these employees or impede our ability to integrate our operations efficiently. Labor relations matters affecting our suppliers could increase our costs, disrupt our supply chains and adversely impact our business. Our operations are subject to special hazards that may cause personal injury or property damage, subjecting us to liabilities and possible losses which may not be covered by insurance. Operating mixer trucks, particularly when loaded, exposes our drivers and others to traffic hazards. Our drivers are subject to the usual hazards associated with providing services on construction sites, while our plant personnel are subject to the hazards associated with moving and storing large quantities of heavy raw materials. Operating hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, plant and equipment and environmental damage. We maintain insurance coverage in amounts and against the risks we believe are consistent with industry practice, but this insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses or liabilities we may incur in our operations. Our insurance policies are subject to varying levels of deductibles. Losses up to our deductible amounts will be accrued based upon our estimates of the ultimate liability for claims incurred and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported. However, insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties, the number of incidents not reported and the effectiveness of our safety program. If we were to experience insurance claims or costs above our estimates, we might also be required to use working capital to satisfy these claims rather than using the working capital to maintain or expand our operations. 15 Table of Contents We may incur material costs and losses as a result of claims that our products do not meet regulatory requirements or contractual specifications. One of the services we provide to our customers is the formulation of specific mix designs for ready-mix concrete that meet building code or other regulatory requirements and contractual specifications for durability, compressive strength, weight-bearing capacity and other characteristics. If we fail or are unable to provide products meeting these requirements and specifications, material claims may arise against us and our reputation could be damaged. Additionally, if a significant uninsured or non-indemnified mix design or product-related claim is resolved against us in the future, that resolution may increase our costs and reduce our profitability and cash flows. Our revenue attributable to public works projects could be negatively impacted by a decrease or delay in governmental spending. Our business depends to some extent on the level of federal, state and local spending on public works projects in our markets. Reduced levels of governmental funding for public works projects or delays in that funding could significantly reduce our revenue and thereby reduce our cash flow and profitability. Meadow Valley Parent Corp. beneficially owns a significant number of shares of our common stock which will have an impact on all major decisions on which our shareholders may vote and which may discourage an acquisition of the Company. Meadow Valley Parent Corp. (“Parent”) currently owns 69.4% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Parent will have the ability to significantly impact virtually all corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, including the following actions: • election of our directors; • the amendment of our organizational documents; • the merger of our company or the sale of our assets or other corporate transactions; and • controlling the outcome of any other matter submitted to the security holders for vote. The interests of Parent may differ from the interests of our other shareholders. Further, Parent’s beneficial stock ownership may discourage potential investors from investing in shares of our common stock due to the lack of influence they could have on our business decisions, which in turn could reduce our stock price. The application of the “penny stock” rules could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and increase your transaction costs to sell those shares. When the trading price of our common stock is below $5.00 per share, the open-market trading of our common stock will be subject to the “penny stock” rules. The “penny stock” rules impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally those with assets in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000 or $300,000 together with their spouse). For transactions covered by these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchase of securities and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction before the purchase. Additionally, for any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the broker-dealer must deliver, before the transaction, a disclosure schedule prescribed by the SEC relating to the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must disclose the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities. Finally, monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information on the limited market in penny stocks. These additional burdens imposed on broker-dealers may restrict the ability or decrease the willingness of broker-dealers to sell the common stock, and may result in decreased liquidity for our common stock and increased transaction costs for sales and purchases of our common stock as compared to other securities. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings and do not expect to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. 16 Table of Contents Failure to maintain adequate general liability, commercial and product liability insurance could subject us to adverse financial results. Any general, commercial and/or product liability claim which is not covered by such policy, or is in excess of the limits of liability of such policy, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our general liability, product liability, and commercial insurance on reasonable terms. If we fail to implement effective internal controls required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to remedy any material weaknesses in our internal controls that we may identify or to obtain the attestation required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, such failure could result in material misstatements in our financial statements, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires management of public companies to develop and implement internal controls over financial reporting and evaluate the effectiveness thereof, and the independent auditors to attest to the effectiveness of such internal controls. We have not yet been required to obtain the independent auditor attestation required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any failure to complete our assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting, to remediate any material weaknesses that we may identify or to implement new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure also could adversely affect the results of the periodic management evaluations of our internal controls and, in the case of a failure to remediate any material weaknesses that we may identify, would adversely affect our ability to obtain the annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting that are required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Inadequate internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control even if the change in control would be beneficial to our shareholders. In addition to the ownership of a significant amount of the Company’s outstanding common stock by Parent, our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our Company, even if it were beneficial to our shareholders to do so. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Among other things, these provisions: • Authorize the issuance of preferred stock that can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior shareholder approval and deter or prevent a takeover attempt; and • Do not allow cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of shareholders to elect director candidates. Risks Related to the Asset Sale Except for Parent, our current stockholders have no opportunity to approve or disapprove the Asset Sale. The Purchase Agreement has been adopted and the consequent Asset Sale has been approved by our Board of Directors and we anticipate that Parent will, by written consent, adopt the Purchase Agreement and approve the Asset Sale on or before April 30, 2010 in accordance with the terms of the Voting Agreement. Thus the Purchase Agreement and the Asset Sale will not be presented to our other stockholders for adoption and approval. Accordingly, stockholders are not being asked to approve or disapprove the Purchase Agreement and the Asset Sale. If the closing of the Asset Sale does not occur, we will not benefit from the expenses we have incurred in the pursuit of the Asset Sale. We have incurred substantial expenses in connection with the Asset Sale. The completion of the Asset Sale depends on the satisfaction of specified conditions in the Purchase Agreement. We cannot guarantee that these 17 Table of Contents conditions will be met. If the Asset Sale is not completed, these expenses could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the market price of our common stock could decline in the event that the Asset Sale is not consummated as our current market price may reflect an assumption that the Asset Sale will be completed. If the Asset Sale is not completed, we may have to revise our business strategy. During the past several months, our management has been focused on, and has devoted significant resources to, the Asset Sale. This focus is continuing and we have not pursued certain business opportunities which may have been beneficial to us. If the Asset Sale is not completed, we will have to revisit our business strategy in an effort to determine what changes may be required in order for us to continue its operations. We may need to consider raising additional capital or financing in order to continue as a going concern if the Asset Sale is not completed. No assurance can be given whether we would be able to successfully raise capital or financing in such circumstances or, if so, under what terms. Termination of the Purchase Agreement could negatively impact the Company. If the Purchase Agreement is terminated, there may be various consequences. For example, the Company’s business may have been adversely impacted by the failure to pursue other beneficial opportunities due to the focus of management on the Asset Sale, without realizing any of the anticipated benefits of completing the Asset Sale, or the market price of the Company’s common stock could decline to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that the Asset Sale will be completed. If the Purchase Agreement is terminated and the Company’s Board of Directors seeks another transaction or business combination, the Company’s stockholders cannot be certain that the Company will be able to find a party willing to pay an equivalent or more attractive price than the price Skanon has agreed to pay in the Asset Sale. Furthermore, under certain specified circumstances, the Company will be required to pay a termination fee of $500,000 if the Purchase Agreement is terminated and it is likely that the Company would have insufficient liquidity to pay such termination fee when due. If the Asset Sale is not consummated by April 30, 2010, either Skanon or the Company may choose not to proceed with the Asset Sale. Either Skanon or the Company may terminate the Purchase Agreement if the Asset Sale has not been completed by April 30, 2010 (subject to specified automatic extensions), unless the failure of the Asset Sale to be completed has resulted from the material failure of the party seeking to terminate the Purchase Agreement to perform its obligations. The Purchase Agreement limits the Company’s ability to pursue alternatives to the Asset Sale. The Purchase Agreement contains provisions that limit the Company’s ability to solicit competing third-party proposals to acquire all or a significant part of the Company. These provisions, which include a $500,000 termination fee payable under certain circumstances, might discourage a potential competing acquiror that might have an interest in acquiring all or a significant part of the Company from considering or proposing that acquisition even if it were prepared to pay more consideration for the Assets than that proposed in the Purchase Agreement. The opinion obtained by the Company from its financial advisor will not reflect changes in circumstances between signing the Purchase Agreement and completion of the Asset Sale. The Company has not obtained an updated opinion as of the date of this Form 10-K from its financial advisor, Lincoln International LLC. Changes in the operations and prospects of the Company, general market and economic conditions and other factors that may be beyond the control of the Company, and on which the Company’s financial advisor’s opinion was based, may significantly alter the value of the Company by the time the Asset Sale is completed. The opinion does not speak as of the time the Asset Sale will be completed or as of any date other than the date of such opinion. Because the Company does not currently anticipate asking its financial advisor to update its opinion, the opinion will not address the fairness of the Purchase Price from a financial point of view at the time the Asset Sale is completed. 18 Table of Contents The Company will be subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the Asset Sale is pending. Uncertainty about the effect of the Asset Sale on employees and customers may have an adverse effect on the Company. These uncertainties may impair the Company’s ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the Asset Sale is consummated, and could cause customers and others that deal with the Company to seek to change existing business relationships with the Company. Retention of certain employees may be challenging during the pendency of the Asset Sale, as certain employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles, if any, with Skanon. In addition, the Purchase Agreement restricts the Company from making certain acquisitions and taking other specified actions until the Asset Sale occurs without the consent of Skanon. These restrictions may prevent the Company from pursuing attractive business opportunities that may arise prior to the completion of the Asset Sale. Following the announcement of the Asset Sale, legal proceedings may be instituted against the Company challenging the Asset Sale, and an adverse ruling in such legal proceedings may prevent the Asset Sale from closing. The Company, the members of the Board of Directors and others may become parties to legal proceedings challenging the proposed Asset Sale, seeking, among other things, to enjoin the Company from consummating the Asset Sale on the agreed-upon terms. The Purchase Agreement provides that either the Company or Skanon could terminate the Purchase Agreement if a court or other agency of competent jurisdiction has issued an order, decree or ruling or taken any other action permanently restraining, enjoining or otherwise prohibiting the Asset Sale. In addition, the Company could incur substantial legal fees in connection with the defense of any legal proceedings against the Company or the members of the Board of Directors or could become responsible for significant monetary damages. The Company may not have adequate liquidity to maintain its operations while the Asset Sale is pending. We require substantial liquidity to maintain our production facilities, meet scheduled term debt and lease obligations and run our normal business operations. While the Asset Sale is pending and we continue to operate at or close to the minimum cash levels necessary to support our normal business operations, our need for cash might continue to intensify and we might be unable to make payments to our suppliers, which could severely limit our ability to close the Asset Sale and may result in the termination of the Purchase Agreement that could require us to pay a $500,000 termination fee. The Company cannot be certain of the exact amount of the Purchase Price as it is subject to downward adjustment under specified circumstances described in the Purchase Agreement. The Purchase Agreement provides that the purchase price for the assets subject to the Asset Sale will be subject to substantial downward adjustment if (1) the amount of cash the Company is entitled to retain under the Purchase Agreement is not sufficient to satisfy certain liabilities specified in the Purchase Agreement, or (2) if the Company breaches any of its obligations pursuant to Section 5.1 of the Purchase Agreement (regarding interim operations of the Company) and such breach results in (a) actual damages to the Assets of greater than $10,000 but less than $500,000, or (b) an increase of the dollar amount of liabilities to be assumed by Skanon at the closing by more than $10,000 but less than $500,000. The completion of the Asset Sale is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of conditions. The Asset Sale is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of a number of closing conditions set forth in the Purchase Agreement. If these conditions are not satisfied or waived, the Asset Sale will not be completed. Also, even if all of these conditions are satisfied, the Asset Sale may not be completed, as each of the Company and Skanon has the right to terminate the Purchase Agreement under certain circumstances specified in the Purchase Agreement. 19 Table of Contents Parent may elect to terminate the Voting Agreement. Parent may materially breach or terminate the Voting Agreement with or without cause at any time and without penalty, and consequently could determine not to vote or give written consent in favor of adoption of the Purchase Agreement and the Asset Sale. We anticipate that Parent will, by written consent, adopt the Purchase Agreement and approve the Asset Sale on or before April 30, 2010 in accordance with the terms of the Voting Agreement, but there can be no assurance to this effect. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 