ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to Our Business ITC Holdings is a holding company with no operations, and unless we receive dividends or other payments from ITCTransmission, METC or our other subsidiaries, we will be unable to pay dividends to our shareholders and fulfill our cash obligations. As a holding company with no business operations, ITC Holdings’ material assets consist only of the common stock of ITCTransmission, indirect ownership interests in METC, ownership interests of our other subsidiaries, deferred tax assets relating primarily to NOLs and cash. Our material cash inflows are only from dividends and other payments received from ITCTransmission, METC or our other subsidiaries and the proceeds raised from the sale of debt and equity securities. We may not be able to access cash generated by ITCTransmission or METC or any other subsidiaries in order to fulfill cash commitments or to pay dividends to shareholders. The ability of ITCTransmission and METC to make dividend and other payments to us is subject to the availability of funds after taking into account ITCTransmission’s and METC’s respective funding requirements, the terms of ITCTransmission’s and METC’s respective indebtedness, the regulations of the FERC under the FPA, and applicable state laws. Each of ITCTransmission, METC and each other subsidiary, however, is legally distinct from us and has no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to make funds available to us. 12 Table of Contents The FERC’s December 2005 rate order authorizing METC’s current rates will be subject to a hearing and possible judicial appeals unless the FERC approves the settlement agreement filed by the interested parties. In any such proceedings, METC could be required to refund revenues to customers and the rates that METC charges for services could be reduced, thereby materially and adversely impacting our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and future earning capacity. On January 19, 2007, METC, ITCTransmission, MISO, Consumers Energy, Michigan Public Power Agency, Michigan South Central Power Agency and Wolverine Power Supply Cooperative, Inc. entered into a settlement agreement resolving all pending matters in METC’s pending rate case before the FERC, including those set for hearing in the FERC’s December 30, 2005 rate order, which authorized METC, beginning on January 1, 2006, to charge rates for its transmission service using the rate setting formula contained in Attachment O. On December 5, 2006, METC and other parties to the rate case jointly filed a motion to suspend the procedural schedule and the FERC chief administrative law judge approved the suspension. The terms of this settlement agreement have been filed with the FERC and remain subject to its approval. Under the filed settlement terms, METC would be required to make payments totaling $20.0 million to various transmission customers within 30 days after there is a final FERC order approving the settlement. METC’s payment pursuant to this settlement would be in lieu of any and all refunds and/or interest payment requirements in this proceeding in connection with METC’s rates in effect on and after January 1, 2006. METC would have no other refund obligation or liability beyond this payment in connection with this proceeding. Additionally, the settlement would establish the balances and amortization to be used for ratemaking for the Regulatory Deferrals and ADIT Deferrals, as defined in the settlement. If the FERC rejects the settlement agreement, contested issues in the pending rate case may be resolved through a contested hearing process, and interested parties may seek a rehearing or judicial review of any order issued as a result thereof. Although we cannot predict if any subsequent requests for rehearing or appeals will be filed, the FERC, in an order following a contested hearing or in response to requests for rehearing or on remand after a successful appeal, could modify the terms of its authorization of METC’s current rates, including reducing those rates retroactively to January 1, 2006 and ordering refunds. This could result in a significant reduction in METC’s earnings from what we currently expect and, accordingly, our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Certain elements of ITCTransmission’s and METC’s cost recovery through rates can be challenged, which could result in lowered rates and/or refunds of amounts previously collected and thus have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. ITCTransmission and METC provide transmission service under rates regulated by the FERC. The FERC has approved ITCTransmission’s and METC’s use of the rate setting formula under Attachment O, but it has not expressly approved the amount of ITCTransmission’s or METC’s actual capital and operating expenditures to be used in that formula. In addition, all aspects of ITCTransmission’s or METC’s rates approved by the FERC, including the Attachment O rate mechanism, ITCTransmission’s and METC’s respective allowed 13.88% and 13.38% rates of return on the actual equity portion of their respective capital structures, and the data inputs provided by ITCTransmission and METC for calculation of each year’s rate, are subject to challenge by interested parties at the FERC in a Section 206 proceeding under the FPA. If a challenger can establish that any of these aspects are unjust, unreasonable, imprudent or unduly discriminatory, then the FERC will make appropriate prospective adjustments to them and/or disallow ITCTransmission’s or METC’s inclusion of those aspects in the rate setting formula. This could result in lowered rates and/or refunds of amounts collected after the date that a Section 206 challenge is filed. In addition, the FERC’s order approving our acquisition of METC is conditioned upon ITCTransmission and METC not recovering acquisition-related costs in their rates unless a separate informational filing is submitted to the FERC. The informational filing, which could be challenged by interested parties, 13 Table of Contents would need to identify those costs and show that such costs are outweighed by the benefits of the acquisition. Determinations by ITCTransmission or METC that expenses included in Attachment O for recovery are not acquisition-related costs are also subject to challenge by interested parties at the FERC. If challenged at the FERC and ITCTransmission or METC fail to show that costs included for recovery are not acquisition-related, this also could result in lowered rates and/or refunds of amounts collected. Such events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. ITCTransmission’s or METC’s actual capital investments may be lower than planned, which would decrease expected rate base and therefore our revenues. Each of ITCTransmission’s and METC’s rate base is determined in part by additions to property, plant and equipment when placed in service. If ITCTransmission’s or METC’s capital investments and the resulting in-service property, plant and equipment are lower than anticipated for any reason, including, among other things, the impact of weather conditions, union strikes, labor shortages, material and equipment prices and availability, our ability to obtain financing for such expenditures, if necessary, limitations on the amount of construction that can be undertaken on our system at any one time or regulatory approvals for reasons relating to environmental, siting or regional planning issues or as a result of legal proceedings and variances between estimated and actual costs of construction contracts awarded, ITCTransmission or METC will have a lower than anticipated rate base thus causing its revenue requirement and future earnings to be potentially lower than anticipated. The regulations to which we are subject may limit our ability to raise capital and/or pursue acquisitions, development opportunities or other transactions or may subject us to liabilities. Each of ITCTransmission and METC is a “public utility” under the FPA and, accordingly, is subject to regulation by the FERC. Approval of the FERC is required under Section 203 of the FPA for a disposition or acquisition of regulated public utility facilities, either directly or indirectly through a holding company. Such approval also is required to acquire securities in a public utility. Under the Energy Policy Act, Section 203 of the FPA also provides the FERC with explicit authority over utility holding companies’ purchases or acquisitions of, and mergers or consolidations with, a public utility. Finally, each of ITCTransmission and METC must also seek approval by the FERC under Section 204 of the FPA for issuances of its securities. In addition, we are subject to local regulations relating to, among other things, facility siting. If we fail to comply with these local regulations, we may incur liabilities for such failure. Changes in federal energy laws, regulations or policies could impact cash flows and could reduce the dividends we may be able to pay our shareholders. Attachment O, the rate formula mechanism used by ITCTransmission and METC to calculate their respective annual revenue requirements, will be used by ITCTransmission and METC for that purpose until and unless it is determined by the FERC to be unjust and unreasonable or another mechanism is determined by the FERC to be just and reasonable. Such determinations could result from challenges initiated at the FERC by interested parties or the FERC in a proceeding under Section 206 of the FPA, or by an application initiated by ITCTransmission or METC under Section 205 of the FPA. We cannot predict whether the approved rate methodologies will be changed. End-use consumers and entities supplying electricity to end-use consumers may attempt to influence government and/or regulators to change the rate setting methodologies that apply to ITCTransmission and METC, particularly if rates for delivered electricity increase substantially. Each of ITCTransmission and METC is regulated by the FERC as a “public utility” under the FPA and is a transmission owner in MISO. The FERC could propose new policies and regulations concerning transmission services or rate setting methodologies. In addition, the U.S. Congress periodically considers enacting energy legislation that could shift new responsibilities to the FERC, modify provisions of the FPA 14 Table of Contents or provide the FERC or another entity with increased authority to regulate transmission matters. ITCTransmission and METC cannot predict whether, and to what extent, ITCTransmission and METC may be affected by any such changes in federal energy laws, regulations or policies in the future. If the network load or point-to-point transmission service on either ITCTransmission’s or METC’s transmission system is lower than expected, the timing of collection of our revenues would be delayed. If the network load on either ITCTransmission’s or METC’s transmission system is lower than expected due to weather, a weak economy, changes in the nature or composition of the transmission grid in Michigan or surrounding regions, poor transmission quality of neighboring transmission systems, or for any other reason, the timing of the collection of our revenue requirement would be delayed until such circumstances are adjusted through the true-up mechanism in ITCTransmission’s or METC’s formula rate mechanism. Each of ITCTransmission and METC depends on its primary customer for a substantial portion of its revenues, and any material failure by those primary customers to make payments for transmission services would adversely affect our revenues and our ability to service ITCTransmission’s and METC’s and our debt obligations. ITCTransmission derives a substantial portion of its revenues from the transmission of electricity to Detroit Edison’s local distribution facilities. Payments from Detroit Edison, billed by MISO, constituted approximately 90% of ITCTransmission’s total operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006 and are expected to constitute the majority of ITCTransmission’s revenues for the foreseeable future. Detroit Edison is rated BBB/stable and Baa1/stable by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services and Moody’s Investors Services, Inc., respectively. Similarly, Consumers Energy accounted for approximately 84% of METC’s revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006, which includes a period prior to the acquisition of METC, and is expected to constitute the majority of METC’s revenues for the foreseeable future. Consumers Energy is rated BB/watch positive and Baa2/positive by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services and Moody’s Investors Service, Inc., respectively. Any material failure by Detroit Edison or Consumers Energy to make payments for transmission services would adversely affect our revenues and our ability to service ITCTransmission’s, METC’s and our debt obligations. We may be materially and adversely affected by the termination of METC’s services contract with Consumers Energy. Consumers Energy provides METC with operating, maintenance, inspection and other services relating to METC’s transmission assets pursuant to a services contract. For the year ended December 31, 2006, including amounts paid prior to our acquisition of METC, METC paid approximately $21.7 million to Consumers Energy for these services. METC gave Consumers Energy notice of termination of the system control and system optimization portions of the services contract on November 2, 2004 and of the remainder of the services provided by Consumers Energy under the services contract on February 6, 2006. Each of these notices is effective in May 2007. We have nearly completed the process of hiring staff and procuring services to replace those provided under the services contract and will contract with qualified parties on the most economically attractive terms available to METC. However, METC may not be able to fully replace these services in a timely manner or on terms and conditions, including service levels and costs, as favorable as those METC has received from Consumers Energy. As discussed above, Consumers Energy also provides system control and optimization functions for METC at an integrated transmission and distribution control center in Jackson, Michigan. Effective upon the termination of the services contract in May 2007, METC will be performing these functions. METC may not be able to hire all of the qualified staff required to operate the new operations and control center or the new operations and control center may not be fully functional by the anticipated transition date, in which event METC will be required to continue to rely on Consumers Energy for the performance of those services even after the termination of the services contract. 15 Table of Contents METC does not own the majority of the land on which its transmission assets are located and, as a result, it must comply with the provisions of an easement agreement with Consumers Energy. METC does not own the majority of the land on which the transmission assets it acquired from Consumers Energy are located. Instead, under the provisions of an easement agreement with Consumers Energy, METC pays annual rent of approximately $10.0 million to Consumers Energy in exchange for rights-of-way, leases, fee interests and licenses which allow METC to use the land on which its transmission lines are located. Under the terms of the easement agreement, METC’s easement rights could be eliminated if METC fails to meet certain requirements, such as paying contractual rent to Consumers Energy in a timely manner. Deregulation and/or increased competition may adversely affect ITCTransmission’s and METC’s customers, or Detroit Edison’s and Consumers Energy’s customers, which in turn may reduce our revenues. The business of ITCTransmission’s and METC’s primary customers is subject to regulation that has undergone substantial change in accordance with Michigan Public Act 141 of 2000, which mandates the implementation of retail access, as well as changes in federal regulatory requirements. The utility industry has also been undergoing dramatic structural change for several years, resulting in increasing competitive pressures on electric utility companies, such as Detroit Edison and Consumers Energy. The manufacturing sector in Detroit Edison’s and Consumers Energy’s service territories has also been subject to increasing competitive pressures. As a result, demand for electricity transmission service by manufacturing companies in ITCTransmission’s and METC’s service territories may be negatively impacted. These factors may create greater risks to the stability of Detroit Edison’s and Consumers Energy’s revenues and may affect Detroit Edison’s and Consumers Energy’s ability to make payments for transmission service to MISO and thus to ITCTransmission and METC, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. On April 1, 2005, MISO began centrally dispatching generation resources throughout much of the Midwest with the launch of its Midwest Energy Markets. Because of this restructuring of power markets throughout the Midwest, the risk profile of some of our customers may have changed, which may affect their ability to pay for the services provided by ITCTransmission and METC. Hazards associated with high-voltage electricity transmission may result in suspension of ITCTransmission’s or METC’s operations or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. ITCTransmission’s and METC’s operations are subject to the usual hazards associated with high-voltage electricity transmission, including explosions, fires, inclement weather, natural disasters, mechanical failure, unscheduled downtime, equipment interruptions, remediation, chemical spills, discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases and other environmental risks. The hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and environmental damage, and may result in suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. We maintain property and casualty insurance, but we are not fully insured against all potential hazards incident to our business, such as damage to poles, towers and lines or losses caused by outages. ITCTransmission and METC are subject to environmental regulations and to laws that can give rise to substantial liabilities from environmental contamination. ITCTransmission’s and METC’s operations are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, which impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the environment, establish standards for the management, treatment, storage, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials and of solid and hazardous wastes, and impose obligations to investigate and remediate contamination in certain circumstances. Liabilities to investigate or remediate contamination, as well as other liabilities concerning hazardous materials or contamination such as claims for personal injury or property damage, 16 Table of Contents may arise at many locations, including formerly owned or operated properties and sites where wastes have been treated or disposed of, as well as at properties currently owned or operated by ITCTransmission or METC. Such liabilities may arise even where the contamination does not result from noncompliance with applicable environmental laws. Under a number of environmental laws, such liabilities may also be joint and several, meaning that a party can be held responsible for more than its share of the liability involved, or even the entire share. Environmental requirements generally have become more stringent in recent years, and compliance with those requirements more expensive. ITCTransmission and METC have incurred expenses in connection with environmental compliance, and we anticipate that each will continue to do so in the future. Failure to comply with the extensive environmental laws and regulations applicable to each could result in significant civil or criminal penalties and remediation costs. ITCTransmission’s and METC’s assets and operations also involve the use of materials classified as hazardous, toxic, or otherwise dangerous. Some of ITCTransmission’s and METC’s facilities and properties are located near environmentally sensitive areas such as wetlands and habitats of endangered or threatened species. In addition, certain properties in which ITCTransmission has an ownership interest or at which ITCTransmission or METC operates are, and others are suspected of being, affected by environmental contamination. Compliance with these laws and regulations, and liabilities concerning contamination or hazardous materials, may adversely affect our costs and, therefore our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, claims have been made or threatened against electric utilities for bodily injury, disease or other damages allegedly related to exposure to electromagnetic fields associated with electricity transmission and distribution lines. We cannot assure you that such claims will not be asserted against us or that, if determined in a manner adverse to our interests, would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Acts of war, terrorist attacks and threats or the escalation of military activity in response to such attacks or otherwise may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Acts of war, terrorist attacks and threats or the escalation of military activity in response to such attacks or otherwise may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations in unpredictable ways, such as increased security measures and disruptions of markets. Strategic targets, such as energy related assets, including, for example, ITCTransmission’s and METC’s transmission facilities and Detroit Edison’s and Consumers Energy’s generation and distribution facilities, may be at risk of future terrorist attacks. In addition to the increased costs associated with heightened security requirements, such events may have an adverse effect on the economy in general. A lower level of economic activity could result in a decline in energy consumption, which may adversely affect our business and financial condition. Risks Related to the Recent Acquisition of METC We may encounter difficulties consolidating METC into our business and may not fully attain or retain, or achieve within a reasonable time frame, expected strategic objectives, cost savings and other expected benefits of the acquisition. We expect to realize strategic and other benefits as a result of our acquisition of the indirect ownership interests in METC. Our ability to realize these benefits or successfully consolidate METC’s business with ours, however, is subject to certain risks and uncertainties, including, among others: • the challenges of consolidating businesses; • the costs of consolidating METC and upgrading and enhancing its operations may be higher than we expect and may require more resources, capital expenditures and management attention than anticipated; 17 Table of Contents • delay of capital investments in METC’s system due to uncertainty around the timing of procurement of construction materials; • employees important to METC’s operations may decide not to continue employment with us; and • we may be unable to anticipate or manage risks that are unique to METC’s historical business, including those related to its workforce, customer demographics and information systems. In addition, METC may incur costs relating to the termination of contracts for engineering and other services performed on behalf of METC prior to the acquisition. We may choose not to utilize these services following the consummation of our acquisition of METC. We are in the process of identifying such contracts, and METC has received invoices from one of its vendors for aggregate termination payments of approximately $2.8 million, which we are disputing. Any such termination payments made by METC may have an adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our failure to manage these risks, or other risks related to the acquisition that are not presently known to us, could prevent us from realizing the expected benefits of the acquisition and also may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to the Pending Acquisition of IP&L Transmission Assets The proposed IP&L acquisition may not occur on a timely basis or at all, and the required governmental approvals may not be obtained on a timely basis or at all. On January 19, 2007, we announced that ITC Midwest LLC had signed a definitive agreement to acquire for cash the transmission assets of IP&L, an Alliant Energy Corporation subsidiary, in a transaction valued at approximately $750.0 million, excluding expenses. The consummation of the proposed IP&L acquisition may not occur on a timely basis or at all. A number of governmental approvals will be required in order to complete the proposed acquisition. These approvals may not be obtained in the time required under the asset sale agreement or at all. A delay in obtaining or failure to obtain these approvals may prevent the proposed acquisition from being completed. Under certain circumstances, if we terminate the asset sale agreement, we may be liable for liquidated damages of approximately $24.0 million or $45.0 million depending on the facts of the situation. The purchase price for the assets is subject to adjustment and, therefore, the final purchase price cannot be determined at this time. Under the asset sale agreement, the purchase price for the purchase of the assets to be acquired is $750.0 million. However, the purchase price is subject to adjustment both upward and downward depending on the occurrence of specified events. As a result, it is not possible to ascertain the final purchase price at this time. The proposed IP&L acquisition may not be as financially or operationally successful as originally contemplated. In agreeing to the terms and conditions of the asset sale agreement, we made certain business assumptions and determinations based on our investigation of IP&L’s assets and business, as well as other information then available. However, these assumptions and determinations involve certain risks and uncertainties that may cause these assumptions and determinations to be inaccurate. As a result, we may not realize the full benefits that we are expecting from the proposed acquisition. 18 Table of Contents We may encounter difficulties consolidating IP&L’s transmission assets into our business and may not fully attain or retain, or achieve within a reasonable time frame, expected strategic objectives, cost savings and other expected benefits of the proposed acquisition. We expect to realize strategic and other benefits as a result of ITC Midwest’s acquisition of IP&L’s transmission assets. Our ability to realize these benefits or successfully consolidate IP&L’s transmission assets into our business, however, is subject to certain risks and uncertainties, including, among others: • the challenges of separating IP&L’s transmission assets into stand alone ownership by ITC Midwest and consolidating businesses with ITC Holdings; • the costs of consolidating IP&L’s transmission assets may be higher than we expect and may require more resources, capital expenditures and management attention than anticipated; • delay of capital investments in IP&L’s transmission system due to uncertainty around the timing of procurement of construction materials; • employees important to the operation of IP&L’s transmission assets may decide not to be employed by us; and • we may be unable to anticipate or manage risks that are unique to the historical business of IP&L’s transmission assets, including those related to its workforce, customer demographics and information systems. Our failure to manage these risks, or other risks related to the acquisition that are not presently known to us, could prevent us from realizing the expected benefits of the acquisition and also may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Capital Structure and Leverage We are highly leveraged and our dependence on debt may limit our ability to pay dividends and/or obtain additional financing. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately $1.3 billion of consolidated indebtedness. ITC Holdings had outstanding $267.0 million aggregate principal amount of 5.25% Senior Notes due July 15, 2013, $255.0 million aggregate principal amount of 5.875% Senior Notes due September 30, 2016 and $255.0 million aggregate principal amount of 6.375% Senior Notes due September 30, 2036. ITCTransmission had outstanding $185.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.45% First Mortgage Bonds, Series A, due July 15, 2013 and $100.0 million aggregate principal amount of 6.125% First Mortgage Bonds, Series C, due March 31, 2036. METC had outstanding $175.0 million aggregate principal amount of 5.75% Senior Secured Notes due December 10, 2015. Additionally, at December 31, 2006, we had total revolving credit facility commitments at ITCTransmission, ITC Holdings, and METC of $75.0 million, $50.0 million and $35.0 million, respectively, with $12.5 million, $0.0 million, and $14.0 million outstanding, respectively. This capital structure can have several important consequences, including, but not limited to, the following: • If future cash flows are insufficient, we may need to incur further indebtedness in order to make the capital expenditures and other expenses or investments planned by us. • Our indebtedness will have the general effect of reducing our flexibility to react to changing business and economic conditions insofar as they affect our financial condition and, therefore, may pose substantial risk to our shareholders. A substantial portion of the dividends and payments in lieu of taxes we receive from ITCTransmission and METC will be dedicated to the payment of interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available for the payment of dividends on our common stock. 19 Table of Contents • In the event that we are liquidated, any of our senior or subordinated creditors and any senior or subordinated creditors of our subsidiaries will be entitled to payment in full prior to any distributions to the holders of shares of our common stock. • Our revolving credit facilities mature in March 2010 for ITCTransmission and ITC Holdings and in December 2008 for METC, and our ability to secure additional financing prior to or after that time, if needed, may be substantially restricted by the existing level of our indebtedness and the restrictions contained in our debt instruments. We may incur substantial indebtedness in the future. The incurrence of additional indebtedness would increase the leverage-related risks described herein. Certain provisions in our debt instruments limit our capital flexibility. Our debt instruments include senior notes, secured notes, first mortgage bonds and revolving credit facilities containing numerous financial and operating covenants that place significant restrictions on, among other things, our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • engage in sale and lease back transactions; • create liens or other encumbrances; • enter into mergers, consolidations, liquidations or dissolutions, or sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; • make capital expenditures at METC prior to the final determination of METC’s rate case, other than capital expenditures that METC reasonably believes are necessary to comply with its obligations as a regulated transmission company; • create or acquire subsidiaries; and • pay dividends or make distributions on our and ITCTransmission’s capital stock and METC’s member’s capital. The revolving credit facilities and METC’s Senior Secured Notes also require us to meet certain financial ratios. Our ability to comply with these and other requirements and restrictions may be affected by changes in economic or business conditions, results of operations or other events beyond our control. A failure to comply with the obligations contained in any of our debt instruments could result in acceleration of the related debt and the acceleration of debt under other instruments evidencing indebtedness that may contain cross acceleration or cross default provisions. Adverse changes in our credit ratings may negatively affect us. Our ability to access capital markets is important to our ability to operate our business. Increased scrutiny of the energy industry and the impacts of regulation, as well as changes in our financial performance could result in credit agencies reexamining our credit rating. A downgrade in any of our credit ratings could restrict or discontinue our ability to access capital markets at attractive rates and increase our borrowing costs. A rating downgrade could also increase the interest we pay under our revolving credit facilities. Our recent public offering caused us to undergo an “ownership change” for purposes of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code which will limit the amount of our NOLs that we may use to reduce our tax liability in a given period . As of December 31, 2006, we had estimated NOLs of $100.4 million. These NOLs may be used to offset future taxable income and thereby reduce our U.S. federal income taxes otherwise payable. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, imposes an annual limit on the ability 20 Table of Contents of a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” to use its NOLs to reduce its tax liability. In the event of an ownership change, we would not be able to use our pre-ownership change NOLs in excess of the limitation imposed by Section 382 for each annual period. Our recent public offering caused us to experience an ownership change. Included in the total estimated NOLs above, we estimate that we acquired approximately $35.0 million of NOLs when we acquired all of the indirect ownership interests in METC in October 2006. We will be subject to annual limitations on the use of such NOLs as a result of the acquisition of all of the indirect ownership interests in METC by us, as well as limitations resulting from prior transactions by the acquired entities. While our NOLs may be subject to an annual limitation as a result of the ownership changes described above, we expect that our ability to use the NOLs over time will not be materially affected by such limitation, although we cannot assure you in this regard. We may not be able to pay dividends, and the reduction or elimination of dividends would negatively affect the market price of our common stock. While we currently intend to continue to pay quarterly dividends on our common stock, we have no obligation to do so. Dividend payments are within the absolute discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, working capital requirements, capital expenditure requirements, financial condition, contractual restrictions, anticipated cash needs and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. For example, we may not generate sufficient cash from operations in the future to pay dividends on our common stock in the intended amounts or at all. In addition, ITC Holdings is a holding company and our ability to pay dividends may be limited by restrictions upon transfer of funds applicable to its subsidiaries (including, for example, those which are contained in ITCTransmission’s revolving credit facility, METC’s Senior Secured Notes and METC’s revolving credit facility). As a holding company without any specific operations, ITC Holdings is dependent on receiving dividends from its operating subsidiaries, such as ITCTransmission, METC and its other subsidiaries, in order to be able to make dividend distributions of its own. Any reduction or elimination of dividends could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Provisions in our Articles of Incorporation and bylaws and Michigan corporate law may prevent efforts by our shareholders to change the direction or management of our company. Our Articles of Incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that might enable our management to resist a proposed takeover. These provisions could discourage, delay or prevent a change of control or an acquisition at a price that our shareholders may find attractive. These provisions also may discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our shareholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. The existence of these provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions include: • a requirement that special meetings of our shareholders may be called only by our board of directors, the chairman of our board of directors, our president or the holders of a majority of the shares of our outstanding common stock; • a requirement of unanimity when shareholders are acting by consent without a meeting if the International Transmission Holdings Limited Partnership (the “IT Holdings Partnership”) owns less than 35% of the shares of our common stock; • advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals and nominations; and • the authority of our board to issue, without shareholder approval, common or preferred stock, including in connection with our implementation of any shareholders rights plan, or “poison pill.” 21 Table of Contents Provisions in our Articles of Incorporation restrict market participants from voting or owning 5% or more of the outstanding shares of our capital stock. ITCTransmission was granted favorable rate treatment by the FERC based on its independence from market participants. The FERC defines a “market participant” to include any person or entity that, either directly or through an affiliate, sells or brokers electricity, or provides ancillary services to MISO. An affiliate, for these purposes, includes any person or entity that directly or indirectly owns, controls or holds with the power to vote 5% or more of the outstanding voting securities of a market participant. To help ensure that we and our subsidiaries will remain independent of market participants, our Articles of Incorporation impose certain restrictions on the ownership and voting of shares of our capital stock by market participants. In particular, the Articles of Incorporation provide that we are restricted from issuing any shares of capital stock or recording any transfer of shares if the issuance or transfer would cause any market participant, either individually or together with members of its “group” (as defined in SEC beneficial ownership rules), to beneficially own 5% or more of any class or series of our capital stock. Additionally, if a market participant, together with its group members, acquires beneficial ownership of 5% or more of any series of the outstanding shares of our capital stock, such market participant or any shareholder who is a member of a group including a market participant will not be able to vote or direct or control the votes of shares representing 5% or more of any series of our outstanding capital stock. Finally, to the extent a market participant, together with its group members, acquires beneficial ownership of 5% or more of the outstanding shares of any series of our capital stock, our Articles of Incorporation allow our board of directors to redeem any shares of our capital stock so that, after giving effect to the redemption, the market participant, together with its group members, will cease to beneficially own 5% or more of that series of our outstanding capital stock. Future sales of our shares could depress the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. As of March 1, 2007, we had approximately 42,382,893 shares of common stock outstanding. Of those shares, 39,458,031 shares, were freely tradable. Approximately 2,924,862 shares outstanding as of March 1, 2007 are eligible for resale from time to time, subject to the contractual restrictions on sales referred to above and to the volume, manner of sale and other conditions of Rule 144. In addition, as of March 1, 2007, 4,358,334 shares were available for future issuance under our 2003 Stock Purchase and Option Plan, Employee Stock Purchase Plan and 2006 Long Term Incentive Plan, including 2,633,023 shares issuable upon the exercise of outstanding stock options, of which 1,526,125 were vested. In the future, we may issue our common stock in connection with investments or repayment of our debt. The amount of such common stock issued could constitute a material portion of our then outstanding common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 