Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business We currently depend on sales of the Hi Art system for substantially all of our revenue and, if we are unable to grow or sustain sales of the Hi Art system or are unable to diversify our business, we may not generate sufficient revenue to support our business. Currently, our sole product is the Hi Art system, which we commenced marketing in 2003. We expect to generate substantially all of our revenue for the foreseeable future from sales of and post-warranty service contracts for the Hi Art system. Accordingly, we are dependent on our ability to market and sell the Hi Art system. Any factor materially adversely affecting our ability to market and sell the Hi Art system or pricing and demand for the Hi Art system would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may experience substantial fluctuations in our quarterly operating results and stock price because of the long sales cycle and high unit price of the Hi Art system, as well as other factors, making it difficult to compare our results of operations to prior periods. The Hi Art system is a major capital equipment item and has a lengthy sales cycle. Once an order is placed, the customer may have to undergo a lengthy building process before installation of the Hi Art system. We recognize revenue from the sale of the Hi Art system after installation and upon receipt of a signed acceptance test procedure report from the customer. Because of the high unit price of the Hi Art system and the relatively small number of units installed each quarter, each installation currently represents a significant component of our revenue for a particular quarter. If a small number of customers defer installation of a Hi Art system for even a short period of 21 Table of Contents time, recognition of a significant amount of revenue may be deferred to a subsequent period. Since our operating costs are relatively fixed, our inability to recognize revenue in a particular quarter may adversely affect our profitability in that quarter. As a result, the inability to recognize revenue in a particular quarter may make it difficult to compare our quarterly operating results with prior periods. In addition, while we believe that our backlog of orders provides a better measure at any particular point in time of the long-term performance prospects of our business than our quarterly operating results, investors may attribute significant weight to our quarterly operating results, which may result in substantial fluctuations in our stock price. We face competition from numerous competitors, many of whom have greater resources than we do, which may make it more difficult for us to achieve significant market penetration. The market for radiation therapy equipment is characterized by intense competition and pricing pressure. We consider the competition for the Hi Art system to be existing radiation therapy systems, primarily using C-arm linear accelerators. In particular, we compete with a number of existing radiation therapy equipment companies including Varian Medical Systems, Inc., Elekta AB, Siemens Medical Solutions, and, to a lesser extent, Accuray Incorporated and BrainLAB AG. Varian Medical Systems has been the market leader for many years and has the majority market share for radiation therapy systems worldwide. Most of our competitors are large, well-capitalized companies with significantly greater market share and resources than we have. As a result, these companies may be better positioned than we are to spend more aggressively on research and development, marketing, sales and other product initiatives. Our current competitors or other companies may at any time develop new products for the treatment of tumors. For example, Varian Medical Systems recently began selling a new technology it refers to as RapicArc. The RapidArc technology purports to be able to deliver image-guided, intensity-modulated radiation therapy more rapidly than other similar systems. If we are unable to compete effectively against this and other products of existing or future competitors, our net revenue could decline. Some of our competitors may compete by changing their pricing model or by lowering the price of their conventional radiation therapy systems or ancillary supplies. If these competitors’ pricing techniques are effective, it could result in downward pressure on the price of radiation therapy systems. If we are unable to maintain or increase our selling prices in the face of competition, we may not improve our gross margins. In addition to the competition that we face from technologies performing similar functions to the Hi Art system, competition also exists for the limited capital expenditure budgets of our customers. A potential purchaser may be forced to choose between two items of capital equipment. Our ability to compete may also be adversely affected when purchase decisions are based largely upon price, since the Hi Art system is a premium priced system due to its greater functionality compared to traditional systems. If we are unable to market the Hi Art system more effectively than competing products, which could be purchased as an alternative to the Hi Art system using the same budget at comparable or lower prices, we may be unable to maintain our current growth rate. Our reliance on single-source suppliers for critical components of the Hi Art system could harm our ability to meet demand for our products in a timely and cost effective manner. We currently depend on single-source suppliers for a number of critical components necessary for the assembly of the Hi Art system, including the ring gantry, the linear accelerator, the solid state modulator, the radiation detector and the magnetron. We purchase some of these components from major industry suppliers. We do not have a long-term supply contract with the supplier of the solid state modulator and the magnetron. An affiliate of one of our competitors, Siemens Medical Solutions, Inc., is also our supplier for the linear accelerator used in the Hi Art system. If the supply of any of these components were to be disrupted or terminated, or if these suppliers were unable to supply the quantities of components that we require, we may have difficulty or be unable to find alternative sources for these key components. As a result, we may be unable to meet the demand for the Hi Art system, which could harm our ability to generate revenue and damage our reputation. In addition, such a delay in components might cause us to have insufficient spare parts to service existing installed systems, which may lead to customer dissatisfaction. Some of our single-source suppliers have at times had material difficulties maintaining an adequate supply of parts to meet our manufacturing and service demands. 22 Table of Contents We believe it will be necessary to find alternative manufacturers for key components of the Hi Art system over time as our quantity and quality demands evolve, but we may experience a significant delay in locating an alternative manufacturer. Furthermore, we will need to verify that any new manufacturer meets our technical specifications and maintains facilities, procedures and operations that comply with our quality requirements. We will also have to assess any new manufacturer’s compliance with all applicable regulations and guidelines, which could further impede our ability to manufacture our products in a timely manner. If the change in manufacturer results in a significant change to the product, a new 510(k) clearance from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, or similar foreign clearance may be necessary, which would likely cause substantial delays. The occurrence of any of these events could harm our ability to meet the demand for the Hi Art system in a timely manner or within budget. Sales of the Hi Art system may be adversely affected if clinicians do not widely adopt IGRT and adaptive radiotherapy, which is an emerging cancer treatment technique. Our success in marketing the Hi Art system depends in part on persuading clinicians and patients of the benefits of adaptive radiation therapy. Image guided radiation therapy, or IGRT, is an emerging cancer treatment technique which involves delivering intensity modulated radiation therapy, or IMRT, guided by images of the treatment area taken shortly before treatment, using CT, x-ray, ultrasound or other imaging technologies. IMRT is a widely accepted technique, which involves varying, or modulating, the intensity of the radiation beam across a targeted treatment area. Adaptive radiation therapy involves adjusting a patient’s radiation therapy plan between treatment sessions to account for changes in the patient’s anatomy, the amount and location of the radiation received by the patient, and the size, shape and location of the tumor. In particular, we believe that adaptive radiation therapy requires, and we have designed the Hi Art system to enable, continual adjustments to a patient’s treatment plan throughout the entire course of treatment, facilitated by both the regular acquisition of updated quantitative images showing the location, geometry and density of the tumor, as well as the verification of the actual radiation dose received by the patient. While IGRT and adaptive radiation therapy are becoming more widely accepted within the United States, these delivery techniques are still in the early stages of emergence and implementation in the rest of the world. Increased sales of the Hi Art system depend, in part, on widespread adoption of these techniques by clinicians both within and outside the United States. Widespread adoption of IGRT and adaptive radiation therapy depends on many factors, including some that are outside of our control. These factors include acceptance by clinicians that IGRT and adaptive radiation therapy are clinically effective and cost effective in treating a wide range of tumors, demand by patients for such treatment, successful education of clinicians on the various aspects of these techniques and adequate reimbursement for procedures performed using adaptive radiation therapy. If widespread market acceptance of IGRT and adaptive radiation therapy do not occur, or do not occur as rapidly as we anticipate, sales of the Hi Art system may be adversely affected and our revenue may decline or fail to grow at its current rate. We may be delayed or prevented from implementing our long-term sales strategy if we fail to educate clinicians and patients about the benefits of the Hi Art system and to implement enhancements to the system in a timely manner. We believe that sales of the Hi Art system to date have been principally to those hospitals and cancer treatment centers that are most open to the adoption of new technologies. In order to expand our sales, we must raise awareness of the range of benefits that we believe the Hi Art system offers to both existing and potential customers, and their patients. An important part of our sales strategy involves educating and training clinicians to utilize the entire functionality of the Hi Art system. In particular, many clinicians are currently unfamiliar with techniques using the full quantitative imaging capabilities of the Hi Art system, which enables clinicians to adapt a patient’s treatment plan in response to anatomical changes and the cumulative amount of radiation received by specific areas within the patient over the course of treatment. In addition, we must further educate clinicians about the ability of the Hi Art system to treat a wide range of cancer types effectively and efficiently. If clinicians are not properly educated about the use of the Hi Art system for adaptive radiation therapy, they may be unwilling or unable to take advantage of the full range of functionality that we believe the Hi Art system offers, which could have an adverse effect on our product sales. 23 Table of Contents In determining whether to purchase a single Hi Art system or whether to purchase multiple Hi Art systems, we understand that clinicians may weigh the benefits that the Hi Art system offers their patients, especially those with tumors typically treated using less sophisticated equipment, against the additional time required to implement the Hi Art system’s image guided treatment functionality and the higher cost of the Hi Art system when compared to systems with less functionality. Customers or potential customers may decide that certain tumors can be adequately treated using traditional radiation therapy systems, notwithstanding the greater precision and functionality enabled by the Hi Art system. These considerations may be particularly relevant to cancer treatment centers that only have space for a single radiation therapy system. In order to increase sales of the Hi Art system to these customers, we must succeed in implementing enhancements to the Hi Art system to improve speed and patient throughput in order to render the time differentials between certain procedures performed using the Hi Art system and those performed using competitive systems insignificant. We must also succeed in educating clinicians about the potential for cost effective reimbursement for procedures performed using the Hi Art system. In addition, we must raise awareness of the Hi Art system among potential patients, who are increasingly educated about cancer treatment options and therefore drive adoption of new technologies by clinicians. Our efforts to expand sales of the Hi Art system in the long-term may be adversely affected if we fail in implementing these strategies. Our ability to increase our profitability depends in part on maintaining our average selling prices and increasing our gross margins, which we may not be able to achieve. Our gross margins may decline in a given period due in part to higher component costs and significant replacement rates for components, resulting in increased warranty expense and negative profit margins on most of our existing service contracts for the Hi Art system. We are making investments in developing alternate components, implementing enhancements to increase the performance of components currently used in the Hi Art system, seeking to identify lower priced components of comparable or improved performance and quality, and implementing other improvements to our service processes. If we are unable to reduce our expenses through these initiatives and maintain competitive pricing of service contracts, our profitability may not improve or may be adversely affected. In addition, a number of factors may result in lower average selling prices for the Hi Art system, which may impact our gross margins. In response to increased competition from the Hi Art system, our competitors may reduce the prices of their systems, which may, in turn, result in downward pressure on the price of radiation therapy systems, including the Hi Art system. We also seek to sell the Hi Art system to customers that place orders for multiple systems; however, such sales may result in pressure to provide volume discounts. In addition, we may be exposed to pricing pressures as we expand our sales within specific regions. Any one or combination of these and other factors could result in lower gross margins and adversely affect our profitability. Our sales may be impacted, or we may be faced with order cancellations, if economic conditions in the United States or elsewhere worsen and credit becomes more difficult to obtain on reasonable terms. The Hi Art system is a major capital equipment item that represents a significant purchase for most of our customers and may require funding through a credit facility or lease arrangement. Although we have not received any order cancellations to date, should economic conditions worsen or the credit markets tighten, our customers who have placed orders may have difficulty making or completing payments for orders, resulting in an increase in outstanding payables and cancellations of some orders. Customers who have placed orders may have difficulty obtaining credit, possibly resulting in cancellations. In addition, potential new customers may delay placing orders for significant capital equipment in such situations, or may choose to purchase equipment that is less costly. If we are unable to maintain existing research collaboration relationships, enter into new collaboration arrangements in the future or enter into license agreements with our collaborators and others, our ability to enhance the Hi Art system may be adversely affected. To date, we have entered into research collaboration arrangements with over 25 hospitals, cancer treatment centers and academic institutions, and a national laboratory. These research collaborations support our internal research and development capabilities and represent a key element of our on-going research and development program. Among other things, our current collaborations supplement initiatives to more fully automate the 24 Table of Contents treatment and adaptive therapy processes enabled by the Hi Art system, as well as initiatives to accommodate real-time patient movements during treatment. Our research collaboration partners may not fulfill all of their obligations under our arrangements with them. If our current research collaborations do not meet our research and development expectations, or if we are unable to enter into additional research collaborations in the future to replace unproductive collaborations or add new collaborations, our ability to enhance the Hi Art system may be adversely affected. In addition, we may also face significant competition in seeking third-party collaborators and may be unable to find third parties with whom to pursue research collaborations on a timely basis or on acceptable terms. Our inability to successfully collaborate with third parties would increase our development costs, delay new or pending developments and could limit the likelihood of successful enhancements to the Hi Art system. Our collaboration agreements generally provide that we either own, in the case of our own developments, have the right to use, in the case of joint developments, or have the right to license, in the case of developments by our collaborator, technology developed pursuant to a collaboration. We cannot provide any assurance that we will successfully enter into license agreements with any of our collaborators concerning technology that is jointly developed or developed by the collaborator, which may prevent us from using that technology. If we are unable to enter into exclusive license agreements with a collaborator over technology that is jointly developed with, or solely developed by, the collaborator, the collaborator may be able to use or license the technology to third parties. Furthermore, if we are unable to enter into license agreements with a collaborator for technology that is jointly developed with, or solely developed by, the collaborator, we may be unable to use that technology. In addition, if we are unable to agree with our collaborators concerning ownership or proper inventorship of technology developed under the collaboration agreement, we may be forced to engage in arbitration or litigation to determine the proper ownership or inventorship. We continue to invest in developing technology that we may wish to incorporate into future Hi Art systems in order to improve our product offering and keep pace with our competition. We may need to license such technology from third parties, but there can be no assurance that such licenses will be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. We rely on a third party to perform spare parts shipping and other logistics functions on our behalf. A failure or disruption at our logistics providers would adversely impact our business. Customer service is a critical element of our sales strategy. In particular, Kuehne + Nagel Inc. stores almost all of our spare parts inventory in depots around the world and performs a significant portion of our spare parts logistics and shipping activities. We may utilize additional logistics service providers in connection with the expansion of international sales. If Kuehne + Nagel suffers an interruption in its business, or experiences delays, disruptions or quality control problems in its operations, or we have to change and qualify an alternative logistics provider, shipments of spare parts to our customers may be delayed and our reputation and results of operations may be adversely affected. If third-party payors do not continue to provide sufficient coverage and reimbursement to healthcare providers for use of the Hi Art system, sales of the Hi Art system may be adversely affected. Our ability to market and sell the Hi Art system successfully depends in part on the extent to which sufficient reimbursement for treatment procedures using the Hi Art system will be available from third-party payors such as private health insurance plans and health maintenance organizations and, to a lesser degree, government payor programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Third-party payors, and in particular managed care organizations, are continuously challenging the prices charged for medical products and services and instituting cost containment measures to control or significantly influence the purchase of medical products and services. For example, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, eliminated a stand-alone code in 2008 for reimbursement of IGRT using CT x-ray images for the purpose of patient positioning to ensure accurate delivery of radiation doses. CMS instead bundled such reimbursement with other procedures, resulting in a small decrease in total reimbursement for outpatient treatment in hospitals. These cost containment measures, if instituted in a manner significantly affecting the coverage of, or reimbursement for, treatment procedures performed using the Hi Art system, could discourage cancer treatment centers and hospitals from purchasing the Hi Art system. 25 Table of Contents Treatment procedures performed using the Hi Art system are currently covered and reimbursed at acceptable rates by third-party payors. However, we cannot provide any assurance that third-party payors will continue to reimburse these procedures at current rates or will continue to consider these procedures to be cost-effective compared to other treatments. Clinicians may be reluctant to purchase the Hi Art system or may decline to do so entirely if they determine there is insufficient coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors for the cost of procedures performed using the Hi Art system, which could have an adverse impact on our sales. In the United States, reimbursement for services rendered to Medicaid beneficiaries is determined pursuant to each state’s Medicaid plan, which is established by state law and regulations and is subject to the requirements of federal laws and regulations. The Balanced Budget Act of 1997 revised the Medicaid program to provide each state more control over coverage and payment matters. In addition, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services has granted many states waivers to allow for greater control of the Medicaid program at the state level. The impact on our business of this greater state control on Medicaid payment for diagnostic services remains uncertain. Our success in non-U.S. markets also depends upon treatment procedures using the Hi Art system being eligible for reimbursement through government-sponsored healthcare payment systems, private third-party payors and labor unions. Reimbursement and healthcare payment systems in international markets vary significantly by country and, within some countries, by region. In many international markets, payment systems may control reimbursement for procedures performed using new products as well as procurement of these products. In addition, as economies of emerging markets develop, these countries may implement changes in their healthcare delivery and payment systems. Healthcare cost containment efforts are prevalent in many of the countries in which we sell, or intend to sell, our product and these efforts are expected to continue. Market acceptance of the Hi Art system in a particular country may depend on the availability and level of reimbursement in that country. Our ability to generate sales may be adversely affected if customers are unable to obtain or maintain adequate reimbursement for treatment procedures using the Hi Art system in markets outside of the United States in which we are selling, or are seeking to sell, the Hi Art system. Our manufacturing operations are conducted at a single location and any disruption at our facility could increase our expenses. All of our manufacturing operations are conducted at a single location in Madison, Wisconsin. This location contains bunkers for testing the Hi Art system because it emits radiation. We do not maintain a backup manufacturing facility and we therefore depend on our current facility for the continued operation of our business. We take precautions to safeguard our facility, including insurance, health and safety protocols, and off-site storage of computer data. However, a natural or other disaster could cause substantial delays in our manufacturing operations, damage or destroy our manufacturing equipment or inventory, and cause us to incur additional expenses. The insurance we maintain against natural or other disasters may not be adequate to cover our losses in any particular case. With or without insurance, damage to our manufacturing facility or our other property, or to any of our suppliers, due to a natural disaster or casualty event may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on local distributors to market and distribute the Hi Art system in key markets. We rely on third-party distributors for the marketing and distribution of the Hi Art system in certain countries in Asia-Pacific, the Middle East and Eastern Europe. The percentage of our revenue derived from sales by local distributors was 18% in 2007, 21% in 2006, and 11% in 2005. A component of our growth strategy is to expand our marketing and sales through distributors in additional countries. In our standard distribution agreement, we appoint an exclusive distributor for a specific country for a specified period, usually three years. The agreement sets annual sales targets and we are entitled to terminate the agreement if the distributor fails to meet these sales targets. To date, we have not had to terminate our relationship with a single distributor due to a failure to meet the minimum sales targets. We have also developed a certification procedure to ensure each distributor can fulfill its obligations under the distribution agreement. Accordingly, our success in generating sales in countries where we have engaged local distributors depends in part on the efforts of others whom we do not control. Many of our local distributors have only limited personnel capabilities, although we require them to assume responsibility for marketing, sales and service efforts in their country. As a result, these distributors may not be able to successfully market, sell and service the Hi 26 Table of Contents Art system, may not devote sufficient time and resources to support adequate marketing and selling efforts, and may not market the Hi Art system at prices that will permit the Hi Art system to develop, achieve or sustain market acceptance, any of which could adversely affect our potential for revenue from international markets. In addition, if a distributor is terminated by us or goes out of business, it may take us a period of time to locate an alternative distributor and to train its personnel to market the Hi Art system and our ability to sell and service the Hi Art system in that distributor’s country could be adversely affected. Our results may be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. In 2007, we derived 78% of our revenue from contracts denominated in U.S. dollars, 18% in Euros, 2% in Swiss francs and 2% in Canadian dollars. In 2006, we derived 84% of our revenue from contracts denominated in U.S. dollars, 15% in Euros and 1% in Canadian dollars. Historically, the substantial majority of our expenses have been denominated in U.S. dollars. However, in 2006 we opened an office in Brussels, Belgium and increased our sales and service capabilities in Europe. As a result, an increasing portion of our expenses will be denominated in Euros. In addition, long-term movements in foreign currency exchange rates could affect the competitiveness of the Hi Art system. In the recent past, we have benefited from a relatively weak U.S. dollar that has made our pricing more competitive compared to our non-U.S. competitors. This has been a contributor to our international orders and revenue growth. Any significant strengthening of the U.S. dollar against other countries’ currencies may result in slower growth in our international orders and revenue, which could negatively affect our overall financial performance and results. We do not currently have a hedging program in place to offset these risks. Technological breakthroughs in cancer treatment could render the Hi Art system obsolete. The cancer treatment market is characterized by continual technological change and product innovation. Other radiation-based technologies for treating cancer that may or may not incorporate IGRT and adaptive radiation therapy, such as proton therapy, may increase competition for the Hi Art system. In addition, companies in the pharmaceutical or biotechnology fields may seek to develop methods of cancer treatment that are more effective than radiation therapy, resulting in decreased demand for the Hi Art system. Because the Hi Art system has a long development cycle and because it can take significant time to receive government approvals for changes to the Hi Art system, we must anticipate changes in the marketplace and the direction of technological innovation. Accordingly, if we are unable to anticipate and address new innovations in the cancer treatment market, the Hi Art system or an aspect of its functionality may be rendered obsolete, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A significant percentage of our sales are in international markets, and economic, political and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our sales or make them less predictable. The percentage of our revenue derived from sales outside of North America was 44% for 2007, 43% in 2006 and 22% in 2005. To accommodate our international sales, we have invested significant financial and management resources to develop an international infrastructure that will meet the needs of our customers. In particular, in 2006 we opened a European office in Brussels, Belgium which includes sales, service and call center operations. In addition, we have entered into agreements with distributors in Asia-Pacific, the Middle East and Eastern Europe who purchase the Hi Art system from us for resale to end customers. We support our international marketing and sales activities from both our U.S. headquarters in Madison, Wisconsin and our office in Brussels, Belgium. We face additional risks resulting from our international operations including: • difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables in a timely manner through the legal systems of many countries outside North America; • the failure to fulfill foreign regulatory requirements to market the Hi Art system on a timely basis or at all; • availability of, and changes in, reimbursement within prevailing foreign health care payment systems; • difficulties in managing foreign relationships and operations, including any relationships that we establish with foreign distributors or sales or marketing agents; 27 Table of Contents • limited protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • the possibility that foreign countries may impose additional withholding taxes or otherwise tax our foreign income, impose tariffs or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade; • the possibility of any material shipping delays; and • significant changes in the political, regulatory, safety or economic conditions in a country or region. If we fail to overcome the challenges we encounter in our international operations, our business will be materially adversely affected. Product liability suits, whether or not meritorious, could be brought against us due to an alleged defective component of the Hi Art system or for the misuse of the Hi Art system. These suits could result in expensive and time-consuming litigation, payment of substantial damages and an increase in our insurance rates. Our business exposes us to potential product liability claims that are inherent in the manufacture, sale, installation, servicing and support of medical devices. The medical device industry has historically been litigious, and we would face financial exposure to product liability claims if the use of the Hi Art system were to cause or contribute to injury or death, whether by aggravating existing patient symptoms or otherwise. Because the Hi Art system involves the delivery of radiation to the human body, the possibility for significant injury or death exists. The tolerance for error in the design, manufacture, installation, servicing, support or use of the Hi Art system may be small or nonexistent. We may also be subject to claims for property damage or economic loss related to, or resulting from, any errors or defects in the Hi Art system, or the installation, servicing and support of the Hi Art system, or any professional services rendered in conjunction with the Hi Art system. Additionally, it is also possible that defects in the design or manufacture of the Hi Art system might necessitate a product recall. For instance, new components or enhancements to the Hi Art system may contain undetected errors or performance problems that, despite testing, are discovered only after installation. Although we maintain product liability insurance for the Hi Art system, the coverage limits of these policies may be inadequate to cover future claims. As sales of the Hi Art system increase, we may be unable to maintain product liability insurance on acceptable terms or at reasonable costs and such insurance may not provide us with adequate coverage for all potential liabilities. A successful claim brought against us relating to a liability that is in excess of our insurance coverage, or for which insurance coverage is denied or limited, would require us to pay damage amounts that could be substantial and have a material adverse effect on our financial position and could divert management’s attention from our core business. The effectiveness of procedures performed using conformal radiation therapy delivery systems like the Hi Art system are not yet supported by long-term clinical data and the medical community has not yet developed a large body of peer-reviewed literature that supports the Hi Art system’s efficacy. We do not have significant clinical data supporting the advantages of highly conformal does delivery that we believe the Hi Art system offers in comparison with competing products and technologies. For example, because the Hi Art system has only been on the market since 2003, we have only limited complication or patient survival rate data, which are common long-term measures of clinical effectiveness in cancer treatment. In addition, while the effectiveness of radiation therapy is well understood, there are a limited number of peer-reviewed medical journal publications regarding the efficacy of highly conformal treatment such as that delivered by the Hi Art system. If future patient studies or clinical experience do not support our beliefs that the Hi Art system offers a more advantageous treatment for a wide variety of cancer types, use of the Hi Art system could fail to increase or could decrease, and our growth and operating results would therefore be adversely affected. Our success will depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. We are highly dependent on members of our senior management, operations, commercialization and research and development staff. Our continued success will depend on our ability to retain our current management and qualified personnel with expertise in research and development, engineering, service, manufacturing, sales, 28 Table of Contents marketing and finance. Competition is intense in the medical device industry for senior management personnel, as well as other qualified personnel, and finding and retaining such personnel with experience in our industry is very difficult. There is substantial time and training required for all newly-hired employees to learn our product and proprietary systems. The loss of the services of certain members of our senior management, scientists, clinicians, or engineers could prevent the implementation and completion of our business objectives. The loss of a member of senior management or our professional staff would also require the remaining executive officers to divert substantial attention to seeking a replacement. Additionally, the sale and after-sale support of the Hi Art system is logistically complex, requiring us to maintain an extensive infrastructure of field sales and customer support personnel. We face considerable challenges, including managing geographically dispersed efforts, in recruiting, training, managing, motivating and retaining these teams. If we are unable to maintain and grow an adequate pool of trained and motivated personnel, our reputation could suffer and our financial position could be adversely affected. If we do not effectively manage our growth, our business may be significantly harmed. The number of our employees has increased significantly over time, with 327 employees at the end of 2005, 492 at the end of 2006, and 665 as of December 31, 2007. We have also significantly expanded our infrastructure in the last several years, including activities and facilities in the United States, activities outside of the United States such as the establishment of a customer support center in Brussels, Belgium, and spare parts depots around the world. In order to implement our business strategy, we expect continued growth in our employee and infrastructure requirements, particularly as we expand our manufacturing, customer service and sales and marketing capacities. To manage our growth, we must expand our facilities, augment our management, operational and financial systems, hire and train additional qualified personnel, scale-up our manufacturing capacity and expand our marketing and distribution capabilities. Our manufacturing, assembly and installation process is complex and we must effectively scale this entire process to satisfy customer expectations and changes in demand. We must continue to recruit, train, manage and retain customer service personnel as the number of units installed in the field increase. We also expect to increase the number of sales and marketing personnel as we expand our business, and although the number of people we employ in our international offices has grown significantly, in many international locations we still lack the minimum critical mass to qualify for group efficiencies, which drives our overall cost of operations higher. We cannot be certain that our personnel, systems, procedures and internal controls will be adequate to support our future operations. Our business will suffer if we cannot manage our growth effectively. We may need to raise additional capital in the future and may be unable to do so on acceptable terms. This could limit our ability to grow and carry out our business plan. We believe that the net proceeds from our recent initial public offering, together with our cash reserves and cash from operations, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. If our estimates of revenue, expenses, or capital or liquidity requirements change or are inaccurate, or if cash generated from operations is insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or arrange additional debt financing. In addition, we may seek to sell additional equity or arrange debt financing to give us financial flexibility to pursue attractive acquisition or investment opportunities that may arise. We are currently seeking funding from potential customers and other investors for our proton therapy research project. We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain additional financing for this or other future projects on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could limit our ability to grow and carry out our business plan, or that any such additional financing, if raised through the issuance of equity securities, will not be dilutive to our existing shareholders. If we raise additional funds through licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish potentially valuable rights to our products or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products, execute our business plan, take advantage of future opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated customer requirements. If any of these events occurs, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 29 Table of Contents We have not yet evaluated our internal controls over financial reporting in compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We are required to comply with the internal control evaluation and certification requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act by no later than the end of our 2008 fiscal year. We are in the process of determining whether our existing internal controls over financial reporting systems are compliant with Section 404. This process may divert internal resources and will take a significant amount of time and effort to complete. To the extent that we are not currently in compliance with Section 404, we may be required to implement new internal control procedures and re-evaluate our financial reporting. We may experience higher than anticipated operating expenses as well as increased independent auditor fees during the implementation of these changes and thereafter. Further, we may need to hire additional qualified personnel in order for us to comply with Section 404. If we are unable to implement these changes effectively or efficiently, it could harm our operations, financial reporting or financial results and could result in our being unable to obtain an unqualified report on internal controls from our independent auditors, which could have a negative impact on our stock price. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we are not able to meet the requirements of our license agreement with the Wisconsin Alumni Research Foundation, or WARF, we could lose access to the technologies licensed thereunder and be unable to produce or sell the Hi Art system. We license from WARF significant technology under a license agreement that requires us to pay royalties to WARF. In addition, the license agreement obligates us to pursue an agreed development plan and to submit periodic reports, and restricts our ability to take actions to defend the licensed patents. WARF has the right to unilaterally terminate the agreement if we do not meet certain minimum royalty obligations or satisfy other obligations related to our utilization of the technology. If WARF were to terminate the agreement or if we were to otherwise lose the ability to exploit the licensed patents, our competitive advantage would be greatly reduced and we may not be able to find a source to replace the licensed technology. The license agreement reserves to WARF the right to defend or prosecute any claim arising with respect to the licensed technology. If WARF does not vigorously defend the patents, any competitive advantage we have based on the licensed technology may be hampered. If we are not able to adequately protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology our competitive position, future business prospects and financial performance will be adversely affected. Our success depends significantly on our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technologies used in the Hi Art system. If we fail to obtain patents, are unable to obtain patents with claims of a scope necessary to cover our technology, or our issued patents are determined to be invalid or to not cover our technology, our competitors could use portions of our intellectual property, which could weaken our competitive position. We have an active program to protect our proprietary inventions through the filing of patent applications and taking certain steps to preserve the confidentiality of our confidential and proprietary information. There can be no assurance, however, that: • current or future U.S. or foreign patent applications will be approved in a timely manner or at all; • our issued patents will protect our intellectual property and not be challenged by third parties; • we will develop patentable intellectual property; • the validity of our patents will be upheld; • the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on our ability to do business; or • others will not independently develop similar or competing products or methods or design around any patents that may be issued to us. Although we have attempted to obtain patent coverage for our technology where available and appropriate, there are aspects of the technology for which patent coverage was never sought or never received. There are also countries in which we sell or intend to sell the Hi Art system, but have no patents or pending patent applications. Our 30 Table of Contents ability to prevent others from making or selling duplicate or similar technologies will be impaired in those countries in which we have no patent protection. We also may not be able to protect our patent rights effectively in some foreign countries. In addition to patents, we rely on a combination of copyright, trade secret and other laws, and contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and transferring title, including confidentiality agreements with vendors, strategic partners, co-developers, employees, consultants and other third parties, to protect our proprietary rights. We cannot be certain that these contracts have not and will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary information will be sufficient to safeguard the technology underlying the Hi Art system. We may initiate lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights, which could be expensive and, if we lose, could cause us to lose some of our intellectual property rights. There may be companies that are currently marketing or may, in the future, market products that compete with the Hi Art system in a direct challenge to our intellectual property position. In such cases, we may initiate litigation in order to stop them. We may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially valuable. Even if successful, litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patents against challenge could be expensive and time consuming and could divert our management’s attention from our core business. Litigation also puts our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Additionally, we may provoke third parties to assert claims against us. In addition, we may become involved in litigation to protect our trademark rights associated with our company name or the names used with the Hi Art system. Third parties may assert that our company name and names used with the Hi Art system infringe rights held by others or are ineligible for proprietary protection. If we have to change the name of our company or the Hi Art system, we may experience a loss in goodwill associated with our brand name, customer confusion and a loss of sales. We may become subject to costly intellectual property litigation, which could affect our future business and financial performance. The medical device industry has been characterized by frequent intellectual property litigation. In particular, the field of radiation therapy for cancer is well-established and crowded with the intellectual property of competitors and others. A number of companies in our market, as well as universities and research institutions, have intellectual property, including patents and patent applications as well as trade secrets, that relate to the use of radiation therapy to treat cancer. We have not conducted an extensive search of patents pending or issued to third parties, and no assurance can be given that third party patents containing claims covering the Hi Art system, technology or methods do not exist, have not been filed or could not be filed or issued. Because of the number of patents issued and patent applications filed in our technical areas or fields, our competitors or other third parties may assert that the Hi Art system and the methods we employ in the use of our product are covered by United States or foreign patents held by them. As the number of competitors in the market for less invasive cancer treatment alternatives grows, and as the number of patents issued in this area grows, the possibility of patent infringement claims against us increases. Any such claim or litigation, regardless of merit, could cause us to incur substantial expenses and delay or materially disrupt the conduct of our business. We could also be required to pay a substantial damage award, develop non-infringing technology, enter into royalty-bearing licensing agreements, if such licenses are available on terms reasonable to us or at all, or stop selling our products. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. In addition, any uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise the funds necessary to continue our operations. 31 Table of Contents We may be subject to claims that our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. As is common in the medical device industry, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other medical equipment or biotechnology companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. Risks Related to Regulatory Matters Modifications, upgrades and future products related to the Hi Art system or new indications may require new FDA premarket approvals or 510(k) clearances, and such modifications, or any defects in design or manufacture, may require us to recall or cease marketing the Hi Art system until approvals or clearances are obtained. The Hi Art system is a medical device that is subject to extensive regulation in the United States and elsewhere, including by the FDA and its foreign counterparts. Before a new medical device, or a new use of or claim for an existing medical device, can be marketed in the United States, it must first receive either premarket approval or 510(k) clearance from the FDA, unless an exemption exists. Either process can be expensive and lengthy. The FDA’s 510(k) clearance process usually takes from three to twelve months, but can last longer. The process of obtaining premarket approval is much more costly and uncertain than the 510(k) clearance process and generally takes from one to three years, or even longer, from the time the application is filed with the FDA. Despite the time, effort and cost, there can be no assurance that any particular device will be approved or cleared by the FDA through either the premarket approval process or 510(k) clearance process. We have obtained 510(k) clearance from the FDA to market the Hi Art system for the treatment of tumors or other targeted tissues anywhere in the body where radiation therapy is indicated. An element of our strategy is to continue to upgrade the Hi Art system to incorporate new software and hardware enhancements that may require the approval of or clearance from the FDA or its foreign counterparts. Certain upgrades previously released by us required 510(k) clearance before we were able to offer them for sale. We expect that certain of our future upgrades to the Hi Art system will also require 510(k) clearance; however, future upgrades may be subject to the substantially more time-consuming and uncertain premarket approval process. The FDA requires device manufacturers to determine whether or not a modification requires an approval or clearance. Any modification to an FDA approved or cleared device that would significantly affect its safety or efficacy or that would constitute a major change in its intended use would require a new premarket approval or 510(k) clearance. We have made modifications to the Hi Art system in the past and may make additional modifications in the future that we believe do not or will not require additional approvals or clearances. If the FDA disagrees and requires us to obtain additional premarket approvals or 510(k) clearances for any modifications to the Hi Art system and we fail to obtain such approvals or clearances or fail to secure approvals or clearances in a timely manner, we may be required to cease manufacturing and marketing the modified device or to recall modified devices until we obtain FDA approval or clearance. In addition, we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties. The FDA and its foreign counterparts regulate virtually all aspects of a medical device’s design, development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, record keeping, reporting, sale, promotion, distribution and shipping. Medical devices may be marketed only for those indications for which they are approved or cleared. The FDA and its foreign counterparts also may change these policies, adopt additional regulations, or revise existing regulations, each of which could prevent or delay premarket approval or 510(k) clearance of our device, or could impact our ability to market our currently cleared device. 32 Table of Contents The Hi Art system is subject to recalls even after receiving FDA clearance or approval, which would harm our reputation, business and financial results. We are subject to the medical device reporting regulations, which require us to report to the FDA if the Hi Art system causes or contributes to a death or serious injury, or malfunctions in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. The FDA and similar governmental bodies in other countries have the authority to require the recall of the Hi Art system if we fail to comply with relevant regulations pertaining to manufacturing practices, labeling, advertising or promotional activities, or if new information is obtained concerning the safety or efficacy of the Hi Art system. A government-mandated or voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of manufacturing defects, labeling deficiencies, packaging defects or other failures to comply with applicable regulations. Any recall would divert management attention and financial resources and could harm our reputation with customers. A recall involving the Hi Art system could be particularly harmful to our business, financial condition and results of operations because it is currently our only product. If we or our distributors do not obtain and maintain the necessary regulatory approvals in a specific country, we will not be able to market and sell the Hi Art system in that country. To be able to market and sell the Hi Art system in a specific country, we or our distributors must comply with the regulations of that country. While the regulations of some countries do not impose barriers to marketing and selling the Hi Art system or only require notification, others require that we or our distributors obtain the approval of a specified regulatory body. These regulations, including the requirements for approvals, and the time required for regulatory review vary from country to country. The governmental agencies regulating medical devices in some countries, for example, require that the user interface on medical device software be in the local language. We currently provide user guides, manuals and on-line screens in the local language but only provide an English language version of the user interface. Obtaining regulatory approvals is expensive and time-consuming, and we cannot be certain that we or our distributors will receive regulatory approvals in each country in which we plan to market the Hi Art system. If we modify the Hi Art system, we or our distributors may need to apply for additional regulatory approvals before we are permitted to sell it. We may not continue to meet the quality and safety standards required to maintain the authorizations that we or our distributors have received. If we or our distributors are unable to maintain our authorizations in a particular country, we will no longer be able to sell the Hi Art system in that country, and our ability to generate revenue will be materially adversely affected. We must manufacture the Hi Art system in accordance with federal and state regulations and we could be forced to recall our installed systems or terminate production if we fail to comply with these regulations. We are required to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, which is a complex regulatory scheme that covers the procedures and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, sterilization, storage and shipping of the Hi Art system. Furthermore, we are required to verify that our suppliers maintain facilities, procedures and operations that comply with our quality requirements. The FDA enforces the Quality System Regulation through periodic inspections. The Hi Art system is also subject to similar state regulations and various worldwide laws and regulations. If in the future we fail a Quality System Regulation inspection, our operations could be disrupted and our manufacturing operations delayed. Failure to take adequate corrective action in response to a Quality System Regulation inspection could force a shutdown of our manufacturing operations and a recall of the Hi Art system. If any of these events occurs, our reputation could be harmed, and we could lose customers and suffer reduced revenue and increased costs. If we are found to have violated laws protecting the confidentiality of patient health information, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, which could increase our liabilities and harm our reputation or our business. There are a number of federal and state laws protecting the confidentiality of certain patient health information, including patient records, and restricting the use and disclosure of that protected information. In particular, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services has promulgated patient privacy rules under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA. These privacy rules protect medical records and 33 Table of Contents other personal health information by limiting their use and disclosure, giving individuals the right to access, amend and seek accounting of their own health information and limiting most uses and disclosures of health information to the minimum amount reasonably necessary to accomplish the intended purpose. Although we are not a covered entity under HIPAA, we have entered into agreements with certain covered entities under which we are considered to be a “business associate” under HIPAA. As a business associate, we are required to implement policies, procedures and reasonable and appropriate security measures to protect individually identifiable health information we receive from covered entities. Our failure to protect health information received from customers could subject us to liability and adverse publicity, and could harm our business and impair our ability to attract new customers. In addition, if the firewall software protecting the information contained in the Hi Art system’s database fails or someone is successful in hacking into the database, we could face damage to our business reputation and possible litigation and regulatory action. Certain governmental agencies, such as the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and the Federal Trade Commission, have the authority to protect against the misuse of consumer information by targeting companies that collect, disseminate or maintain personal information in an unfair or deceptive manner. We are also subject to the laws of those foreign jurisdictions in which we sell the Hi Art system, some of which currently have more protective privacy laws. If we fail to comply with applicable regulations in this area, our business and prospects could be harmed. We are subject to federal and state laws prohibiting “kickbacks” and false or fraudulent claims, which, if violated, could subject us to substantial penalties. Additionally, any challenge to or investigation into our practices under these laws could cause adverse publicity and be costly to respond to, and thus could harm our business. A federal law commonly referred to as the Medicare/Medicaid anti-kickback law, and several similar state laws, prohibit persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce either the referral of an individual, or furnishing or arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. These laws constrain our sales, marketing and other promotional activities by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements, including sales programs, we may have with hospitals, physicians or other potential purchasers of medical devices. We have a variety of arrangements with our customers that could implicate these laws. For example, we provide research grants to some of our customers to support customer studies related to protocols in using the Hi Art system. Due to the breadth of some of these laws, and the range of interpretations to which they are subject to, it is possible that some of our current or future practices might be challenged under one or more of these laws. Other federal and state laws generally prohibit individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent, or for items or services that were not provided as claimed. While we do not give our customers advice on coding or billing procedures performed using the Hi Art system, we may inadvertently or informally provide billing or code information in response to customer inquiries regarding reimbursement for procedures. We cannot provide any assurance that the government will not view our inadvertent or informal statements regarding billing or coding to be advice, in which case we could be liable for providing erroneous advice. Anti-kickback and false claims laws prescribe civil and criminal penalties for noncompliance, which can be substantial. Even an unsuccessful challenge or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity, and be costly to respond to, and thus could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our common stock has only recently been publicly traded and the price may fluctuate substantially. Prior to our initial public offering in May of 2007, there was no public market for shares of our common stock. An active public trading market may not be sustained. The market price of our common stock will continue to be affected by a number of factors, including: • fluctuations in quarterly revenue and net income; • regulatory developments related to the manufacturing, marketing or sale of the Hi Art system; 34 Table of Contents • announcements of technological innovations, new services or service enhancements, strategic alliances or significant agreements by us or by our competitors; • recruitment or departure of key personnel; • changes in the estimates of our operating results or changes in recommendations by any securities analyst that elects to follow our common stock; • sales of large blocks of our common stock; and • changes in accounting principles or changes in interpretations of existing principles, which could affect our financial results. Share price fluctuations may be exaggerated if the trading volume of our common stock is too low. The lack of a trading market may result in the loss of research coverage by securities analysts. Moreover, we cannot provide any assurance that any securities analysts will initiate or maintain research coverage of our company and our ordinary shares. If our future quarterly operating results are below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the price of our common stock would likely decline. Securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility. Any securities litigation claims brought against us could result in substantial expense and divert management’s attention from our business. Anti-takeover provisions included in our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws could delay or prevent a change of control of our company, which could adversely impact the value of our common stock and may prevent or frustrate attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our current management. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our board of directors that our shareholders might consider favorable. These provisions include the following: • our board of directors is authorized to issue preferred stock in series, with the designation, powers, preferences and rights of each series to be fixed by our board of directors; • a board of directors divided into three classes serving staggered three-year terms, such that not all members of the board will be elected at one time; • a requirement that special meetings of shareholders be called only by a majority of our board of directors or our Chief Executive Officer upon demand of the holders of record of stock representing ten percent or as otherwise required by law; • advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals and nominations; and • our bylaws may be amended by approval of either our shareholders or our board of directors, except where: (i) our articles of incorporation or the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law reserve the power exclusively to the shareholders, or (ii) the shareholders, in adopting, amending or repealing a particular bylaw, provide within the bylaws that the board of directors may not amend, repeal or readopt such bylaw. In addition, a change of control of our company may be discouraged, delayed or prevented by Sections 180.1140 to 180.1144 of the Wisconsin Business Corporations Law. These provisions generally restrict a broad range of business combinations between a Wisconsin corporation and a shareholder owning 10% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These and other provisions in our amended and restated articles of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and Wisconsin law could make it more difficult for shareholders or potential acquirors to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by the then-current board of directors, including to delay or impede a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our company. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. 35 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 