Item 1A. Risk Factors The risk factors listed in this section and other factors noted herein or incorporated by reference could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. The following risk factors, in addition to the information discussed elsewhere herein, should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our business: All of our assets are collateral for some residual bonding obligations of Meadow Valley. Should Meadow Valley default on any of these particular obligations, our assets could be foreclosed upon and sold to satisfy these obligations. Prior to the closing of our initial public offering, we were a wholly-owned subsidiary of Meadow Valley Corporation. Meadow Valley, through another subsidiary, acts as a heavy construction contractor operating primarily in Arizona and Nevada. In order to bid upon and win awards for construction projects, Meadow Valley is required to provide bonds which guarantee to the owner of the project that Meadow Valley will fulfill its obligations under its construction contract with the owner. As of September 2005, we were no longer guaranteeing new construction contracts with our assets, but we are still obligated under the pre-existing bonding obligations. As of December 31, 2005, Meadow Valley had $13.5 million of payment and performance bonds that remain indemnified by us and to which our assets were pledged as collateral. This compares to $62.5 million of bonds that were collateralized by our assets as of June 30, 2005. The $13.5 million of remaining bonds are collateralized by $86.7 million of assets comprised of approximately $46.8 million of Meadow Valley assets and $39.9 million of our assets as of December 31, 2005. Upon the closing of the offering, we terminated our involvement in this indemnity agreement with the bonding company for new Meadow Valley projects, however, our assets will remain subject to the indemnity agreement for any bonds issued to Meadow Valley up to thirty days following our termination. Should Meadow Valley default on these obligations under its construction agreements, and should Meadow Valley’s assets not be sufficient to satisfy its obligations to the bonding company, then our assets could be foreclosed upon and sold pursuant to the indemnity agreement in order to satisfy Meadow Valley’s obligations. A loss of assets could significantly impair or terminate our ability to continue our operations. We are and will continue to be subject to conflicts of interest resulting from Meadow Valley’s control of us, and we do not have any procedures in place to resolve such conflicts. Meadow Valley owns approximately 53% of our outstanding common stock and may be able to control our business. Additionally, Meadow Valley’s chief executive officer also serves us in similar capacities, and all of Meadow Valley directors serve on our board of directors. We also sell a small amount of concrete to Meadow Valley. These relationships could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when Meadow Valley’s officers and directors are faced with decisions that could have different implications for Meadow Valley and us. These decisions could result in reducing our profitability or in a loss of our assets that are subject to claims by Meadow Valley’s creditors as previously discussed. Also, the appearance of conflicts, even if such conflicts do not materialize, might adversely affect the investing public’s perception of us. We do not have any formal procedure for resolving such conflicts of interest. At any given time, one or a limited number of customers may account for a large percentage of our revenue, which means that we face a greater risk of loss of revenue and a reduction in our profitability if we lose a major customer or if a major customer faces financial difficulties. At times, a small number of customers have generated a large percentage of our revenue in any given period. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, one customer provided approximately 14.3% of our 11 Table of Contents revenue and our ten largest customers provided approximately 53.4% of our revenue. In 2004, one customer provided approximately 15.4% of our revenue and our ten largest customers provided approximately 50.2% of our revenue. In 2003 no customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenue. Companies that constitute our largest customers vary from year to year, and our revenue from individual customers fluctuates each year. If we lose one or more major customers or if any of these customers face financial difficulties, our revenue could be substantially reduced, thereby reducing our profitability. We may lose business to competitors who underbid us or who have greater resources to supply larger jobs than we have, and we may be otherwise unable to compete favorably in our highly competitive industry. Our competitive position in a given market depends largely on the location and operating costs of our ready-mix concrete plants and prevailing prices in that market. Price is a primary competitive factor among suppliers for small or simple jobs, principally in residential construction, while timeliness of delivery and consistency of quality and service, in addition to price, are the principal competitive factors among suppliers for large or complex jobs. Our competitors range from small, owner-operated private companies offering simple mixes to subsidiaries or operating units of large, vertically integrated cement manufacturing and concrete products companies. Our vertically integrated competitors generally have greater manufacturing, financial and marketing resources than we, providing them with a competitive advantage. Competitors having lower operating costs than we do or having the financial resources to enable them to accept lower margins than we do will have a competitive advantage over us for larger jobs which are particularly price-sensitive. Competitors having greater financial resources than we do to invest in new mixer trucks or build plants in new areas also have competitive advantages over us. We depend on third parties for cement and other supplies essential to operate our business. The loss of any such suppliers could impact our ability to provide concrete to, or otherwise service our customers, as well as our ability to retain and attract customers. We rely on third parties to provide us with supplies, including cement and other raw materials, necessary for our operations. We cannot be sure that these relationships will continue in the future or that raw materials will continue to be available to us when required and at a reasonable price. For instance, in recent years there has been a worldwide shortage of cement, which has caused cement prices, and therefore concrete prices, to rise. If our supply contracts are terminated or if we are unable to purchase cement or other raw materials in sufficient quantities to meet our needs, we might be unable to meet our supply commitments to our customers which would severely impact our ability to retain and attract customers. Our operating results may vary significantly from reporting period to reporting period and may be adversely affected by the cyclical nature of the ready-mix concrete markets we serve, causing significant reductions in our revenue. Our business and the business environment which supports the ready-mix concrete business can be cyclical in nature. As a result, our revenue may be significantly reduced as a result of declines in construction in Nevada and Arizona caused by: • the level of residential and commercial construction in Nevada and Arizona; • the availability of funds for public or infrastructure construction from local, state and federal sources; • changes in interest rates; • variations in the margins of jobs performed during any particular quarter; and • the budgetary spending patterns of our customers. As a result, our operating results in any particular quarter may not be indicative of the results that you can expect for any other quarter or for the entire year. Furthermore, negative trends in the ready-mix concrete industry or in our markets could reduce our revenue, thereby decreasing our gross profit and reducing our profitability. 12 Table of Contents Our business is seasonal, causing quarterly variations in our revenue and earnings, which in turn could negatively affect our stock price. The construction industry, even in Arizona and Nevada, is seasonal in nature, often as a result of adverse weather conditions, with significantly stronger construction activity in the second and third calendar quarters, than in the first and fourth quarters. Such seasonality or unanticipated inclement weather could cause our quarterly revenue and earnings to vary significantly. Because of our relatively small size, even a short acceleration or delay in filling customers’ orders can have a material adverse effect on our financial results in a given reporting period. Our varying quarterly results may result in a decline in our common stock price if investors react to our reporting operating results which are less favorable than in a prior period or than those anticipated by investors or the financial community generally. Governmental regulations covering the ready-mix concrete industry, including environmental regulations, may result in increases in our operating costs and capital expenditures and decreases in our earnings. A wide range of federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations apply to our production of ready-mix concrete, including: • zoning regulations affecting plant locations; • restrictions on street and highway usage; • limitations on noise levels; and • regulation of health, safety and environmental matters. In many instances, we must have various certificates, permits or licenses in order to conduct our business. Our failure to maintain required certificates, permits or licenses or to comply with applicable governmental requirements could result in substantial fines or possible revocation of our authority to conduct some of our operations. Governmental requirements that impact our ready-mix concrete operations also include those relating to air quality, solid waste management and water quality. These requirements are complex and subject to frequent change. They impose strict liability in some cases without regard to negligence or fault and expose us to liability for the conduct of, or conditions caused by others, or for our acts that may otherwise have complied with all applicable requirements when we performed them. Our compliance with amended, new or more stringent requirements, stricter interpretations of existing requirements or the future discovery of environmental conditions may require us to make material expenditures we currently do not anticipate, thereby decreasing our earnings, if any. There are special risks related to our operating and internal growth strategies that could adversely affect our operating practices and overall profitability. One key component of our strategy is to operate our businesses on a decentralized basis, with local Phoenix and Las Vegas metro-wide management retaining responsibility for day-to-day operations, profitability and the internal growth of the local business. If we do not implement and maintain proper overall internal controls, this decentralized operating strategy could result in inconsistent operating and financial practices and our overall profitability could be adversely affected. Our internal growth will also be affected by local management’s ability to: • attract new customers and retain existing customers; • differentiate our company in a competitive market by successfully emphasizing the quality of our products and our service; • hire and retain mixer truck drivers and other specialized employees; and • place orders for new equipment on a timely basis to meet production needs. 13 Table of Contents The departure of key personnel could disrupt our business and limit our growth, as this growth requires the hiring of new local senior managers and executive officers. We depend on the continued efforts of our executive officers, some of whom are executive officers of Meadow Valley, and, in many cases, on our local senior management. In addition, any future growth will impose significant additional responsibilities on members of our senior management and executive officers. The success of our operations, which is based upon a decentralized management, will depend on recruiting new local senior level managers and officers, and we cannot be certain that we can recruit and retain such additional managers and officers. To the extent we are unable to attract and retain qualified management personnel, our growth could be limited and our business could be disrupted, resulting in decreased revenue and increased costs associated with the loss of experienced managers responsible for new client generating, marketing and cost containment efforts. If some or all of our employees unionize, it could result in increases in our operating costs, disruptions in our business and decreases in our earnings. If our employees were to become represented by a labor union, we could experience disruptions of our operations caused by labor strikes or slow downs as well as higher ongoing labor costs, which could increase our overall costs to do business. In addition, the coexistence of union and non-union employees on particular jobs may lead to conflicts between these employees or impede our ability to integrate our operations efficiently. Labor relations matters affecting our suppliers could increase our costs, disrupt our supply chains and adversely impact our business. Our operations are subject to special hazards that may cause personal injury or property damage, subjecting us to liabilities and possible losses some of which may not be covered by insurance. Operating mixer trucks, particularly when loaded, exposes our drivers and others to traffic hazards. Our drivers are subject to the usual hazards associated with providing services on construction sites, while our plant personnel are subject to the hazards associated with moving and storing large quantities of heavy raw materials. Operating hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, plant and equipment and environmental damage. We maintain insurance coverage in amounts and against the risks we believe are consistent with industry practice, but this insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses or liabilities we may incur in our operations. Our insurance policies are subject to varying levels of deductibles. Losses up to our deductible amounts will be accrued based upon our estimates of the ultimate liability for claims incurred and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported. However, insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties, the number of incidents not reported and the effectiveness of our safety program. If we were to experience insurance claims or costs above our estimates, we might also be required to use working capital to satisfy these claims rather than using the working capital to maintain or expand our operations. We may incur material costs and losses as a result of claims that our products do not meet regulatory requirements or contractual specifications. Our operations involve providing ready-mix formulations that must meet building code or other regulatory requirements and contractual specifications for durability, compressive strength, weight-bearing capacity and other characteristics. If we fail or are unable to provide products meeting these requirements and specifications, material claims may arise against us and our reputation could be damaged. Additionally, if a significant uninsured or unindemnified formulation or product-related claim is resolved against us in the future, that resolution may increase our costs and reduce our profitability and cash flows. Our revenue attributable to public works projects could be negatively impacted by a decrease or delay in governmental spending. Our business depends to some extent on the level of federal, state and local spending on public works projects in our markets. Reduced levels of governmental funding for public works projects or delays in that funding could significantly reduce our revenue and thereby reduce our cash flow and profitability. 14 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 