Risk Factors” below are not exclusive and further information concerning us and our business, including factors that potentially could materially affect our financial results or condition, may emerge from time to time. We assume no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect actual results or changes in factors or assumptions affecting such forward-looking statements. We advise you, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K we file with or furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Available Information Our principal executive offices are located at 9600 54th Avenue North, Suite 100, Plymouth, Minnesota 55442. Our telephone number is (763) 398-7000, and our Internet web site address is www.ev3.net. The information contained on our web site or connected to our website is not incorporated by reference into and should not be considered part of this report. We make available, free of charge and through our Internet web site, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to any such reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. We also make available, free of charge and through our Internet web site under the Investor Relations—Corporate Governance section, to any stockholder who requests, the charters of our board committees and our Code of Business Conduct and Code of Ethics for Senior Executive and Financial Officers. Requests for copies can be directed to Investor Relations at (763) 398-7000. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are significant factors known to us that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or operating results. We have a history of operating losses and negative cash flow. Our operations to date have consumed substantial amounts of cash, and we expect this condition to continue. We had an accumulated deficit of $562.2 million at December 31, 2005. Our ability to achieve cash flow positive operations will be influenced by many factors, including the extent and duration of our future operating losses, the level and timing of future sales and expenditures, market acceptance of new 36 products, the results and scope of ongoing research and development projects, competing technologies, market and regulatory developments and the future course of intellectual property litigation. If adequate cash flow is not available to us, our business will be negatively impacted. Some of our products are emerging technologies or have been recently introduced into the market and may not achieve market acceptance once they are introduced into their markets, which could adversely affect our business. Even if we are successful in developing safe and effective products that receive regulatory approval, such products may not gain market acceptance. Our market share for our existing products may not grow, and our products that have yet to be introduced may not be accepted in the market. We will need to invest in significant training and education of our physician customers to achieve market acceptance of our products with no assurance of success. In order for any of our products to be accepted, we must address the needs of potential customers and our customers must believe our products are effective and commercially beneficial. However, even if customers accept our products, this acceptance may not translate into sales if our competitors have developed similar products that our customers prefer. If our products do not gain market acceptance or if our customers prefer our competitors’ products, our business could be adversely affected. Delays in product introductions could adversely affect our net sales. The endovascular device market is highly competitive and designs change often to adjust to patent constraints and to changing market preferences. Therefore, product life cycles are relatively short. As a result, any delays in our product launches may significantly impede our ability to enter or compete in a given market and may reduce the sales that we are able to generate from these products. We may experience delays in any phase of a product launch, including during research and development, clinical trials, manufacturing, marketing and the education process. In addition, our suppliers of products that we do not manufacture can suffer similar delays, which could cause delays in our product introductions. If we suffer delays in product introductions, our net sales could be adversely affected. If third parties claim that we infringe upon their intellectual property rights, we may incur liabilities and costs and may have to redesign or discontinue selling the affected product. The medical device industry is litigious with respect to patents and other intellectual property rights. Companies operating in our industry routinely seek patent protection for their product designs, and many of our principal competitors have large patent portfolios. Companies in the medical device industry have used intellectual property litigation to gain a competitive advantage. Whether a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, the determination of which is often uncertain. We face the risk of claims that we have infringed on third parties’ intellectual property rights. Prior to launching major new products in our key markets, we normally evaluate existing intellectual property rights. However, our competitors may also have filed for patent protection which is not as yet a matter of public knowledge or claim trademark rights that have not been revealed through our availability searches. Our efforts to identify and avoid infringing on third parties’ intellectual property rights may not always be successful. Any claims of patent or other intellectual property infringement, even those without merit, could: · be expensive and time consuming to defend; · result in us being required to pay significant damages to third parties; · cause us to cease making or selling products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; · require us to redesign, reengineer or rebrand our products, if feasible; 37 · require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a third party’s intellectual property, which agreements may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all; · divert the attention of our management; or · result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of the affected products until resolution of the litigation. In addition, new patents obtained by our competitors could threaten a product’s continued life in the market even after it has already been introduced. We are currently a party to a number of intellectual property claims, the resolution of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we do not infringe any patents or other proprietary rights held by third parties. In that regard, in March 2005, Medtronic, Inc. contacted us to express its view that our Protégé stents infringe on one or more of its patents. We informed Medtronic that we disagree with Medtronic’s assertions, and have since had several discussions with Medtronic. No lawsuit with respect to this matter has been filed. We also received notice from an individual regarding our Percutaneous Left Atrial Appendage Transcatheter Occlusion device, or PLAATO, which is designed to reduce the risk of stroke by occluding the left atrial appendage, a small pocket attached to the heart’s left upper chamber that has limited functional use and is the location of a majority of blood clots in the heart. The individual claims that he believes the PLAATO device infringes on two of his patents. We have informed this individual that we do not believe that our PLAATO device infringes on these patents. We have also informed this individual of our decision to discontinue the development and commercialization of the PLAATO device. In March 2005, we were served with a complaint by Boston Scientific Corporation and one of our affiliates which claims that some of our products, including our SpideRX Embolic Protection Device, infringe on certain of Boston Scientific’s patents. Boston Scientific is seeking monetary damages from us and to enjoin us from the alleged infringement. We have answered the complaint and intend to vigorously defend this action. In addition, both parties have asked the court to allow additional claims in to the case. Boston Scientific is seeking to add a trade secret misappropriation claim, and we are seeking to counterclaim for infringement of two of our own patents. Prior to MTI’s acquisition of Dendron GmbH, Dendron became involved in litigation in Europe involving patents covering certain of our products, which litigation is still active. Concurrent with MTI’s acquisition of Dendron, MTI initiated a series of legal actions in the Netherlands and the United Kingdom with the primary purpose of asserting both invalidity and non-infringement by it of certain patents held by others with respect to detachable coils and certain delivery systems. In addition, the patent holders against whom MTI initiated the actions in the Netherlands and the United Kingdom have initiated legal actions against MTI in the United States that allege infringement by MTI of certain patents held by them. Because these matters are in early or mid-level stages, we cannot estimate the possible loss or range of loss, if any, associated with their resolution. However, there can be no assurance that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If our products were found to infringe on any proprietary rights of a third party, we could be required to pay significant damages or license fees to the third party or cease production, marketing and distribution of those products, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Litigation may also be necessary to enforce patent rights we hold or to protect trade secrets or techniques we own. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” and Note 18 to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. We may also be subject to disputes as to the ownership of patents that we may develop with other companies. Such disputes could result in the enjoining of sales of our products or us being required to pay 38 commercially unreasonable licensing fees. If this occurs, our net sales or the cost of selling the infringing product, and therefore our results of operations, would be negatively affected. If there is a disruption in the supply of the products of Invatec S.r.l. that we distribute or if our relationship with Invatec is impaired, our net sales and results of operations would be adversely impacted. We have entered into an agreement with Invatec S.r.l., or Invatec, an Italian manufacturer of endovascular medical devices which prior to our arrangement have not been marketed or sold under the Invatec brand in the United States, to distribute Invatec’s branded products throughout the United States. Although our contract with Invatec gives us the exclusive right to market Invatec’s products using the Invatec brand in the United States, Invatec retained the right to sell its products into the United States under other brands, which it currently does. We increased our U.S. cardio peripheral sales force by adding 40 new sales representatives in 2004 partially in reliance on this agreement and have invested significantly in regulatory, intellectual property and clinical activities to support the introduction and ongoing sales/marketing of Invatec’s products in the United States. Our success in marketing the Invatec products is dependent on our sales personnel being proficient in the product line, building physician relationships and executing sales orders. If we are unable to market Invatec’s products successfully or if our agreement with Invatec is terminated, our net sales and results of operations would suffer. If we do not meet our performance requirements under the agreement, the agreement may be terminated by Invatec and we may be obligated to make substantial payments to Invatec. In addition, even if we market Invatec’s products successfully, if Invatec is unable to produce enough of its products to meet our demands, including if Invatec sells its inventory to our competitors rather than to us for marketing under their own brands, we may not be able to meet our customers’ demands and our net sales and results of operations may suffer. We also may not be successful in managing the larger inventory and greater variety of product offerings that we experience in connection with our Invatec relationship and our net sales and results of operations may be adversely impacted. If our patents and other intellectual property rights do not adequately protect our products, we may lose market share to our competitors and be unable to operate our business profitably. Our success depends significantly on our ability to protect our proprietary rights to the technologies used in our products. We rely on patent protection, as well as a combination of copyright and trademark laws and nondisclosure, confidentiality and other contractual arrangements to protect our proprietary technology. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. In addition, we cannot be assured that any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of a patent to us. The United States Patent and Trademark Office, or PTO, may deny or require significant narrowing of claims in our pending patent applications, and patents issued as a result of the pending patent applications, if any, may not provide us with significant commercial protection or be issued in a form that is advantageous to us. We could also incur substantial costs in proceedings before the PTO. These proceedings could result in adverse decisions as to the priority of our inventions and the narrowing or invalidation of claims in issued patents. Our issued patents and those that may be issued in the future may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing related products. Although we have taken steps to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology, there is no assurance that third parties will not be able to design around our patents. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology. We cannot assure you that we can meaningfully protect all our rights in our unpatented proprietary technology or that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary products or processes or otherwise gain access to our unpatented proprietary technology. We seek to protect our know-how and other unpatented proprietary technology, in part with confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, independent distributors and consultants. However, such agreements may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our proprietary 39 information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of the agreements or in the event that our competitors discover or independently develop similar or identical designs or other proprietary information. In addition, we rely on the use of registered trademarks with respect to the brand names of some of our products. We also rely on common law trademark protection for some brand names, which are not protected to the same extent as our rights in the use of our registered trademarks. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. For example, foreign countries generally do not allow patents to cover methods for performing surgical procedures. If we cannot adequately protect our intellectual property rights in these foreign countries, our competitors may be able to compete more directly with us, which could adversely affect our competitive position and business. We also hold licenses from third parties that are necessary to utilize certain technologies used in the design and manufacturing of some of our products. The loss of such licenses would prevent us from manufacturing, marketing and selling these products, which could harm our business. We manufacture our products at single locations. Any disruption in these manufacturing facilities or any patent infringement claims with respect to our manufacturing process could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We have relied to date principally on our manufacturing facilities in Plymouth, Minnesota and in Irvine, California and our former facility in New Brighton, Minnesota. We closed our New Brighton, Minnesota manufacturing facility in July 2005 and moved our operations to our Plymouth facility. In addition, in October 2005, we entered into a lease for new space in Irvine, California to which we will relocate our existing Irvine operations, including our manufacturing facility. The Plymouth and Irvine facilities and the manufacturing equipment we use to produce our products would be difficult to replace and could require substantial lead-time to repair or replace. Our facilities may be affected by natural or man-made disasters. In the event one of our two facilities was affected by a disaster, we would be forced to rely on third-party manufacturers if we could not shift production to our other manufacturing facility. In the case of a device with a pre-market approval application we may be required to obtain prior U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, or notified body approval of an alternate manufacturing facility, which could delay or prevent our marketing of the affected product until such approval is obtained. Although we believe we possess adequate insurance for damage to our property and the disruption of our business from casualties, such insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. It is also possible that one of our competitors could claim that our manufacturing process violates an existing patent. If we were unsuccessful in defending such a claim, we may be forced to stop production at one or both of our manufacturing facilities in the United States and to seek alternative facilities. Even if we are able to identify such alternative facilities, we may incur additional costs and may experience a disruption in the supply of our products until those facilities are available. Any disruption in our manufacturing capacity could have an adverse impact on our ability to produce sufficient inventory of our products or may require us to incur additional expenses in order to produce sufficient inventory, and therefore may adversely affect our net sales and results of operations. Any disruption or delay at our manufacturing facilities could impair our ability to meet the demand of our customers and these customers may cancel orders or purchase products from our competitors, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. If we lose the services of our chief executive officer or other key personnel, we may not be able to manage our operations and meet our strategic objectives. Our future success depends, in large part, on the continued service of James M. Corbett, our president and chief executive officer. Mr. Corbett’s continuation with us is integral to our future success, based on his significant expertise and knowledge of our business and products. Although we have key person insurance 40 with respect to Mr. Corbett, any loss or interruption of the services of Mr. Corbett could significantly reduce our ability to effectively manage our operations and implement our strategy. Also, we depend on the continued service of key managerial, scientific, sales and technical personnel, as well as our ability to continue to attract and retain additional highly qualified personnel, especially experienced medical device sales personnel. We compete for such personnel with other companies, academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. Any loss or interruption of the services of our other key personnel or any employee slowdowns, strikes or similar actions could also significantly reduce our ability to effectively manage our operations and meet our strategic objectives because we cannot assure you that we would be able to find appropriate replacement personnel should the need arise. Our dependence on key suppliers puts us at risk of interruptions in the availability of our products, which could reduce our net sales and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, increases in prices for raw material and components used in our products could adversely affect our results of operations. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for the raw materials and components used in our products. Our raw materials and components are generally acquired through purchase orders placed in the ordinary course of business, and we do not have any guaranteed or contractual supply arrangements with many of our key or single source suppliers. In addition, we also rely on independent contract manufacturers for some of our products. Independent manufacturers have possession of and in some cases hold title to molds for certain manufactured components of our products. Our dependence on third-party suppliers involves several risks, including limited control over pricing, availability, quality and delivery schedules, as well as manufacturing yields and costs. Suppliers of raw materials and components may decide, or be required, for reasons beyond our control to cease supplying raw materials and components to us. Shortages of raw materials, quality control problems, production capacity constraints or delays by our contract manufacturers could negatively affect our ability to meet our production obligations and result in increased prices for affected parts. Any such shortage, constraint or delay may result in delays in shipments of our products or components, which could adversely affect our net sales and results of operations. In addition, the FDA, and foreign regulations may require additional testing of any raw materials or components from new suppliers prior to our use of these materials or components. In the case of a device with a pre-market approval application, we may be required to obtain prior FDA approval of a new supplier, which could delay or prevent our access or use of such raw materials or components or our marketing of affected products until such approval is granted. In the case of a device with clearance under Section 510(k) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, which we refer to as a 510(k), we may be required to submit a new 510(k) if a change in a raw material or component supplier results in a change in a material or component supplied that is not within the 510(k) cleared device specifications. If we need to establish additional or replacement suppliers for some of these components, our access to the components might be delayed while we qualify such suppliers and obtain any necessary FDA approvals. Our suppliers of finished goods are also subject to regulatory inspection and scrutiny. Any adverse regulatory finding or action against those suppliers could impact their ability to supply us goods for distribution and sale. Our inability to successfully grow through acquisitions, our failure to integrate any acquired businesses successfully into our existing operations or our discovery of previously undisclosed liabilities could negatively affect our business and results of operations. In order to build our core technology platform, we have acquired several businesses since our inception. Most recently, in January 2006, we completed our acquisition of the outstanding shares of MTI that we did not already own and are in the process of integrating certain of MTI’s operations into our operations. We expect to actively pursue additional acquisitions in the future as a component of our business strategy. Our ability to grow through acquisitions depends upon our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate attractive candidates on favorable terms and to obtain any necessary financing. Our 41 inability to complete one or more acquisitions could impair our ability to develop our product lines and to compete against many industry participants, many of whom have product lines broader than ours. Our previous acquisitions, including our most recent acquisition of the remaining ownership interest of MTI, and any future acquisitions involve risks, including: · difficulties in integrating any acquired companies, personnel and products into our existing business; · delays in realizing projected efficiencies, cost savings, revenue synergies and other benefits of the acquired company or products; · inaccurate assessment of undisclosed, contingent or other liabilities or problems; · diversion of our management’s time and attention from other business concerns; · limited or no direct prior experience in new markets or countries we may enter; · higher costs of integration than we anticipated; or · difficulties in retaining key employees of the acquired business who are necessary to manage these acquisitions. In addition, an acquisition could materially impair our operating results and liquidity by causing us to incur debt or reallocate amounts of capital from other operating initiatives or requiring us to amortize acquisition expenses and acquired assets or incur non-recurring charges as a result of incorrect estimates made in the accounting for acquisitions. We may also discover deficiencies in internal controls, data adequacy and integrity, product quality, regulatory compliance and product liabilities which we did not uncover prior to our acquisition of such businesses, which could result in us becoming subject to penalties or other liabilities. Any difficulties in the integration of acquired businesses or unexpected penalties or liabilities in connection with such businesses could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. These risks could be heightened if we complete several acquisitions within a relatively short period of time. We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available or may be available only on unfavorable terms. In addition, any equity financings may be dilutive to our stockholders. Our capital requirements depend on many factors, including the amount of expenditures on intellectual property and technologies, the number of clinical trials which we conduct, new product development and new product acquisition. To the extent that our existing capital is insufficient to meet these requirements and cover any losses, we will need to raise additional funds through financings or borrowings or curtail our growth and reduce our assets. From time to time we may also sell a given technology or intellectual property having a development timeline or development cost that is inconsistent with our investment horizon or which does not adequately complement our existing product portfolio. We have historically relied on financing from Warburg Pincus and The Vertical Group, but there can be no assurance that Warburg Pincus, The Vertical Group or other investors will provide such financing in the future. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. Equity financings could result in dilution to our stockholders, and the securities issued in future financings as well as in any future acquisitions may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our common stock. If our need for capital arises because of significant losses, the occurrence of these losses may make it more difficult for us to raise the necessary capital. 42 Our sales would decline if our customers or our patients cannot obtain third party reimbursement for their purchases of our products. Sales of our products depend in part on the reimbursement by governmental and private health care payors to our physician customers or their patients for the purchase and use of our products. In the United States, health care providers that purchase our products generally rely on third-party payors, principally federal Medicare, state Medicaid and private health insurance plans, to pay for all or a portion of the cost of endovascular procedures. Reimbursement systems in international markets vary significantly by country, and by region within some countries, and reimbursement approvals must be obtained on a country-by-country basis and can take up to 18 months or longer. Many international markets have government-managed health care systems that govern reimbursement for new devices and procedures. In most markets, there are private insurance systems as well as government-managed systems. Additionally, some foreign reimbursement systems provide for limited payments in a given period and therefore result in extended payment periods. Any delays in obtaining, or an inability to obtain, reimbursement approvals could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, if the reimbursement policies of domestic or foreign governmental or private health care payors were to change, our customers would likely change their purchasing patterns and/or the frequency of their purchases of the affected products. Additionally, payors continue to review their coverage policies carefully for existing and new therapies and can, without notice, deny coverage for treatments that include the use of our products. Our business would be negatively impacted to the extent any such changes reduce reimbursement for our products. In addition, some health care providers in the United States have adopted or are considering a managed care system in which the providers contract to provide comprehensive health care for a fixed cost per person. Health care providers may attempt to control costs by authorizing fewer elective surgical procedures or by requiring the use of the least expensive devices possible, which could adversely affect the demand for our products or the price at which we can sell our products. We also sell a number of our products to physician customers who may elect to use these products in ways that are not within the scope of the approval or clearance given by the FDA, often referred to as “off-label” use. In the event that governmental or private health care payors limit reimbursement for products used off-label, sales of our products and our business would be materially adversely affected. Our products and facilities are subject to extensive regulation with which compliance is costly and which exposes us to penalties for non-compliance. We may not be able to obtain required regulatory approvals for our products in a cost-effective manner or at all, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The production and marketing of our products and our ongoing research and development, preclinical testing and clinical trial activities are subject to extensive regulation and review by numerous governmental authorities both in the United States and abroad. U.S. and foreign regulations applicable to medical devices are wide-ranging and govern, among other things, the testing, marketing and pre-market review of new medical devices, in addition to regulating manufacturing practices, reporting, advertising, exporting, labeling and record keeping procedures. We are required to obtain FDA approval or clearance before we can market our products in the United States and certain foreign countries. The regulatory process requires significant time, effort and expenditures to bring our products to market, and we cannot assure that any of our products will be approved for sale. Any failure to obtain regulatory approvals or clearances could prevent us from successfully marketing our products, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in governmental agencies: · imposing fines and penalties on us; · preventing us from manufacturing or selling our products; 43 · bringing civil or criminal charges against us; · delaying the introduction of our new products into the market; · recalling or seizing our products; or · withdrawing or denying approvals or clearances for our products. If any or all of the foregoing were to occur, we may not be able to meet the demands of our customers and our customers may cancel orders or purchase products from our competitors, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Even if regulatory approval or clearance of a product is granted, the approval or clearance could limit the uses for which the product may be labeled and promoted, which may limit the market for our products. Further, for a marketed product, our manufacturers and manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic reviews and inspections by FDA and foreign regulatory authorities. Subsequent discovery of problems with a product, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions on the product, manufacturer or facility, including withdrawal of the product from the market or other enforcement actions. In addition, regulatory agencies may not agree with the extent or speed of corrective actions relating to product or manufacturing problems. We are currently conducting clinical studies of some of our products under an investigational device exemption. Clinical studies must be conducted in compliance with regulations of the FDA and those of regulatory agencies in other countries in which we conduct clinical studies. The data collected from these clinical investigations will ultimately be used to support market clearance for these products. There is no assurance that regulatory bodies will accept the data from these clinical studies or that they will ultimately allow market clearance for these products. When required, with respect to the products we market in the United States, we have obtained pre-market notification clearance under Section 510(k), but we do not believe certain modifications we have made to our products require us to submit new 510(k) notifications. However, if the FDA disagrees with us and requires us to submit a new 510(k) notification for modifications to our existing products, we may be subject to enforcement actions by the FDA and be required to stop marketing the products while the FDA reviews the 510(k) notification. If the FDA requires us to go through a lengthier, more rigorous examination than we had expected, our product introductions or modifications could be delayed or canceled, which could cause our sales to decline. In addition, the FDA may determine that future products will require the more costly, lengthy and uncertain pre-market approval application process. Products that are approved through a pre-market approval application generally need FDA approval before they can be modified. If we fail to submit changes to products developed under investigational device exemptions or pre-market approval applications in a timely or adequate manner, we may become subject to regulatory actions. Because we are subject to extensive regulation in the countries in which we operate, we are subject to the risk that regulations could change in a way that would expose us to additional costs, penalties or liabilities. For example, in the United States we sell a number of our products to physicians who may elect to use these products in ways that are not within the scope of the approval or clearance given by the FDA or for other than FDA-approved indications, often referred to as “off-label” use. There are laws and regulations prohibiting the promotion of products for such off-label use which restrict our ability to market our products and could adversely affect our growth. Although we have strict policies against the unlawful promotion of products for off-label use and we train our employees on these policies, it is possible that one or more of our employees will not follow the policies, or that regulations would change in a way that may hinder our ability to sell such products or make it more costly to do so, which could expose us to financial penalties as well as loss of approval to market and sell the affected products. If we want to market any of our products for use in ways for which they are not currently approved, we may need to conduct clinical 44 trials and obtain approval from appropriate regulatory bodies, which could be time-consuming and costly. In addition, off-label use may not be safe or effective and may result in unfavorable outcomes to patients, resulting in potential liability to us. Penalties or liabilities stemming from off-label use could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, if physicians cease or lessen their use of products for other than FDA-approved indications, sales of our products could decline, which could materially adversely affect our net sales and results of operations. If additional regulatory requirements are implemented in the foreign countries in which we sell our products, the cost of developing or selling our products may increase. For example, in Japan, new regulations became effective on April 1, 2005 which increase the regulatory and quality assurance requirements for both our manufacturing facilities and our offices located in Japan in order to obtain and maintain regulatory approval to market our products there. While parts of new regulations are still being defined, we expect that these new regulations will result in higher costs and delays in securing approval to market our products in Japan. In addition, we depend on our distributors outside the United States in seeking regulatory approval to market our devices in other countries and we are therefore dependent on persons outside of our direct control to secure such approvals. For example, we are highly dependent on distributors in emerging markets such as China and Brazil for regulatory submissions and approvals and do not have direct access to health care agencies in those markets to ensure timely regulatory approvals or prompt resolution of regulatory or compliance matters. If our distributors fail to obtain the required approvals or do not do so in a timely manner, our net sales from our international operations and our results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, our business, properties and products are subject to foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, natural resources and worker health and safety and the use, management, storage, and disposal of hazardous substances, wastes, and other regulated materials. Because we operate real property, various environmental laws also may impose liability on us for the costs of cleaning up and responding to hazardous substances that may have been released on our property, including releases unknown to us. These environmental laws and regulations also could require us to pay for environmental remediation and response costs at third-party locations where we disposed of or recycled hazardous substances. The costs of complying with these various environmental requirements, as they now exist or may be altered in the future, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. A number of our products are in clinical trials. If these trials are unsuccessful, or if the FDA or other regulatory agencies do not accept the results of such trials, these products may not successfully come to market and our business prospects may suffer. Several of our products are in the early stages of development. Some of our products only recently emerged from clinical trials and others have not yet reached the clinical trial stage. Our current trials include the CREATE trial designed to evaluate the use of our SpideRX Embolic Protection Devices and our Protégé Self-Expanding Stent System in carotid artery stenting procedures in patients who are high risk candidates for carotid endarterectomy. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in reaching the endpoints in these trials or, if we do, that the FDA or other regulatory agencies will accept the results and approve the devices for sale. Further, we continually evaluate the potential financial benefits and costs of our clinical trials and the products being evaluated in them. If we determine that the costs associated with attaining regulatory approval of a product exceed the potential financial benefits of that product or if the projected development timeline is inconsistent with our investment horizon, we may choose to stop a clinical trial and/or the development of a product. For example, in September 2005, we decided to discontinue the development and commercialization of our PLAATO device. Although we recently had obtained conditional approval from the FDA for an investigational device exemption, or IDE, clinical trial 45 for our PLAATO device, we determined that, due to the time, cost and risk of enrollment, the trial design ultimately mandated by the FDA was not commercially feasible for us at such time. Our ability to market our products in the United States will depend upon a number of factors, including our ability to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our products with valid clinical data. Our ability to market our products outside of the United States is also subject to regulatory approval, including our ability to demonstrate the safety of our products in the clinical setting. Our products may not be found to be safe and, where required, effective in clinical trials and may not ultimately be approved for marketing by U.S. or foreign regulatory authorities. Our failure to develop safe and effective products that are approved for sale on a timely basis would have a negative impact on our net sales. In particular, if we do not reach the endpoints or obtain FDA approval with respect to our products, our future growth may be significantly hampered. In addition, some of the products for which we are currently conducting trials are already approved for sale outside of the United States. As a result, while our trials are ongoing, unfavorable data may arise in connection with usage of our products outside the United States which could adversely impact the approval of such products in the United States. Conversely, unfavorable data from clinical trials in the United States may adversely impact sales of our products outside of the United States. The risks inherent in operating internationally and the risks of selling and shipping our products and of purchasing our components and products internationally may adversely impact our net sales, results of operations and financial condition. We derive a significant portion of our net sales from operations in international markets. For the years ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, 46.3% and 50.4% of our net sales, respectively, were derived from our international operations. Our international distribution system consisted of eight direct sales offices and approximately 44 stocking distribution partners as of December 31, 2005. In addition, we purchase some components and products from international suppliers. The sale and shipping of our products and services across international borders, as well as the purchase of components and products from international sources, subject us to extensive U.S. and foreign governmental trade regulations. Compliance with such regulations is costly and exposes us to penalties for non-compliance. In 2005, we reviewed our trade control practices as part of our ongoing commitment to further enhance our compliance policies and procedures. As part of this review, we identified instances in which we may have incorrectly reported information about certain shipments imported into the United States and Europe. We have disclosed these potential reporting errors to customs regulators in the countries of importation in the United States and Europe, and while we believe that no monies are owed to any government as a result of these potential reporting errors other than processing fees of an immaterial amount or value added taxes otherwise due, we may incur penalties, additional fees, value added taxes, interest and duty payments if the customs regulators disagree with our assessment. For example, we are currently in discussions with customs regulators in the United Kingdom concerning whether value added taxes may be owed on certain imports from 2004 and 2005. Any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could impact us in a variety of ways that include, but are not limited to, significant criminal, civil and administrative penalties, including imprisonment of individuals, fines and penalties, denial of export privileges, seizure of shipments, restrictions on certain business activities, and exclusion or debarment from government contracting. Also, the failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could result in the disruption of our shipping and sales activities. In addition, many of the countries in which we sell our products are, to some degree, subject to political, economic and/or social instability. Our international sales operations expose us and our representatives, agents and distributors to risks inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions. These risks include: · the imposition of additional U.S. and foreign governmental controls or regulations; · the imposition of costly and lengthy new export licensing requirements; 46 · the imposition of U.S. and/or international sanctions against a country, company, person or entity with whom the company does business that would restrict or prohibit continued business with the sanctioned country, company, person or entity; · economic instability; · a shortage of high-quality sales people and distributors; · loss of any key personnel that possess proprietary knowledge, or who are otherwise important to our success in certain international markets; · changes in third-party reimbursement policies that may require some of the patients who receive our products to directly absorb medical costs or that may necessitate the reduction of the selling prices of our products; · changes in duties and tariffs, license obligations and other non-tariff barriers to trade; · the imposition of new trade restrictions; · the imposition of restrictions on the activities of foreign agents, representatives and distributors; · scrutiny of foreign tax authorities which could result in significant fines, penalties and additional taxes being imposed on us; · pricing pressure that we may experience internationally; · laws and business practices favoring local companies; · longer payment cycles; · difficulties in maintaining consistency with our internal guidelines; · difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; · difficulties in enforcing or defending intellectual property rights; and · exposure to different legal and political standards due to our conducting business in over 50 countries. We cannot assure you that one or more of the factors will not harm our business. Any material decrease in our international sales would adversely impact our net sales, results of operations and financial condition. Our international sales are predominately in Europe. In Europe, health care regulation and reimbursement for medical devices vary significantly from country to country. This changing environment could adversely affect our ability to sell our products in some European countries. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could result in declines in our reported net sales and earnings. Because the majority of our international sales are denominated in local currencies and not in U.S. dollars, our reported net sales and earnings are subject to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Our international net sales were unfavorably affected by the impact of foreign currency fluctuations totaling $203 thousand in 2005 and favorably affected by $2.7 million in 2004. We cannot assure you that we will benefit from the impact of foreign currency fluctuations in the future and foreign currency fluctuations in the future may adversely affect our net sales and earnings. At present, we do not engage in hedging transactions to protect against uncertainty in future exchange rates between particular foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar. If we engage in hedging activities in the future, such activities may not limit our underlying exposure from currency fluctuations or minimize our net sales and earnings volatility associated with foreign currency exchange rate changes. In addition, our hedging activities may also involve some risk. 47 We may become obligated to make large milestone payments that are not currently reflected in our financial statements in certain circumstances, which would negatively impact our cash flows from operations. Pursuant to the acquisition agreements relating to our purchase of MitraLife and Appriva Medical, Inc. in January 2002 and August 2002, respectively, we agreed to make certain additional payments to the sellers of these businesses in the event that we achieve contractually defined milestones. Generally, in each case, these milestone payments become due upon the completion of specific regulatory steps in the product commercialization process. With respect to the MitraLife acquisition, the maximum potential milestone payments totaled $25 million, and with respect to the Appriva acquisition, the maximum potential milestone payments totaled $175 million. On September 29, 2004, we sold substantially all of the assets constituting the MitraLife business to Edwards Lifesciences and we are no longer pursuing commercialization of the product line acquired in the MitraLife transaction. As of the date that we sold these assets to Edwards Lifesciences, none of the milestones set forth in our agreement with the sellers of MitraLife had been met. We have determined that we have no current obligations in respect of these milestone payments, and we do not believe that it is likely that we will have obligations with respect to these milestones in the future. Although we do not believe it is likely that these milestone payment obligations will become due in the future, it is possible that the former stockholders of MitraLife could disagree and make a claim for such payments. Any such dispute could be costly, result in payments in such amounts being made and divert our management’s time and attention away from our business. The Appriva acquisition agreement contains four milestones to which payments relate. The first milestone was required by our terms to be achieved by January 1, 2005 in order to trigger a payment equal to $50 million. We have determined that the first milestone was not achieved by January 1, 2005 and that the first milestone is not payable. On May 20, 2005, Michael Lesh, as an individual seller of Appriva stock and purporting to represent certain other sellers of Appriva stock, filed a complaint in the Superior Court of the State of Delaware with individually specified damages aggregating $70 million and other unspecified damages for several allegations, including that we, along with other defendants, breached the acquisition agreement and an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing by willfully failing to take the steps necessary to meet the first milestone under the agreement, and thereby also failing to meet certain other milestones, and further that one milestone was actually met. The complaint also alleges fraud, negligent misrepresentation and violation of state securities laws in connection with the negotiation of the acquisition agreement. We believe these allegations are without merit and intend to vigorously defend this action. However, the defense and resolution of this or any similar dispute could be costly and may divert our management’s time and attention away from our business. On or about November 21 2005, a second lawsuit was filed in Delaware Superior Court relating to the acquisition of Appriva Medical, Inc. The named plaintiff is Appriva Shareholder Litigation Company, LLC, which according to the complaint was formed for the purpose of pursuing claims against us. The complaint alleges that Erik van der Burg and three unidentified institutional investors, have assigned their claims as former shareholders of Appriva to Appriva Shareholder Litigation Company, LLC. The complaint alleges specified damages in the form of the second milestone payment ($25 million), which is claimed to be due and payable and further alleges unspecified damages to be proven at trial. The complaint alleges the following claims: misrepresentation, breach of contract, breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing and declaratory relief. We believe these allegations and claims are without merit and intend to vigorously defend this action. On September 27, 2005, we announced our decision to discontinue the development and commercialization of our PLAATO device, which is the technology we acquired in the Appriva transaction. While we do not believe that it is likely that we will have obligations with respect to the first or other milestones, as discussed above, it is possible that a court could disagree and require us to make such payments. The defense of the outstanding litigation related to our Appriva acquisition will be costly and time-consuming. In the event any such milestone payments become due and/or any other damages become payable, our 48 costs would increase correspondingly which would negatively impact our cash flow from operations, as well as divert our management’s time and attention away from our business. We rely on our independent sales distributors and sales associates to market and sell our products outside of the United States, Canada, Europe and Japan. Sales of our products in locations outside of the United States, Canada, Europe and Japan represented 13% of our net sales in both fiscal 2005 and 2004. Our success outside of the United States, Canada, Europe and Japan depends largely upon marketing arrangements with independent sales distributors and sales associates, in particular their sales and service expertise and relationships with the customers in the marketplace. Independent distributors and sales associates may terminate their relationship with us, or devote insufficient sales efforts to our products. We do not control our independent distributors and they may not be successful in implementing our marketing plans. In addition, many of our independent distributors outside of the United States, Canada, Europe and Japan initially obtain and maintain foreign regulatory approval for sale of our products in their respective countries. Our failure to maintain our existing relationships with our independent distributors and sales associates outside of the United States, Canada, Europe and Japan, or our failure to recruit and retain additional skilled independent sales distributors and sales associates in these locations, could have an adverse effect on our operations. We have experienced turnover with some of our independent distributors in the past that has adversely affected our short-term financial results while we transitioned to new independent distributors. Similar occurrences could happen in the future. If physicians do not recommend and endorse our products, our sales may decline or we may be unable to increase our sales. In order for us to sell our products, physicians must recommend and endorse them. We may not obtain the necessary recommendations or endorsements from physicians. Acceptance of our products depends on educating the medical community as to the distinctive characteristics, perceived benefits, safety, clinical efficacy and cost-effectiveness of our products compared to products of our competitors, and on training physicians in the proper application of our products. If we are not successful in obtaining the recommendations or endorsements of physicians for our products, our sales may decline or we may be unable to increase our sales. If we fail to comply with the U.S. Federal Anti-Kickback Statute and similar state laws, we could be subject to criminal and civil penalties and exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. A provision of the Social Security Act, commonly referred to as the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute, prohibits the offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for referring, ordering, leasing, purchasing or arranging for or recommending the ordering, purchasing or leasing of items or services payable by Medicare, Medicaid or any other federal health care program. The Federal Anti-Kickback Statute is very broad in scope and many of our provisions have not been uniformly or definitively interpreted by existing case law or regulations. In addition, most of the states in which our products are sold have adopted laws similar to the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute, and some of these laws are even broader than the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute in that their prohibitions are not limited to items or services paid for by a federal health care program but, instead, apply regardless of the source of payment. Violations of the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute may result in substantial civil or criminal penalties and exclusion from participation in federal health care programs. All of our financial relationships with health care providers and others who provide products or services to federal health care program beneficiaries are potentially governed by the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute and similar state laws. We believe our operations are in material compliance with the 49 Federal Anti-Kickback Statute and similar state laws. However, we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to investigations or litigation alleging violations of these laws, which could be time-consuming and costly to us and could divert management’s attention from operating our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, if our arrangements were found to violate the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute or similar state laws, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our business strategy relies on assumptions about the market for our products, which, if incorrect, would adversely affect our business prospects and profitability. We are focused on the market for endovascular devices used to treat vascular diseases and disorders. We believe that the aging of the general population and increasingly inactive lifestyles will continue and that these trends will increase the need for our products. However, the projected demand for our products could materially differ from actual demand if our assumptions regarding these trends and acceptance of our products by the medical community prove to be incorrect or do not materialize or if drug therapies gain more widespread acceptance as a viable alternative treatment, which in each case would adversely affect our business prospects and profitability. If we experience a delay in the proposed relocation of our existing manufacturing facility in Irvine, California, the production of our neurovascular products may be delayed. In October 2005, we entered into a lease for approximately 96,400 square feet of new office, manufacturing and research facilities located in Irvine, California. We expect to occupy the new facilities and vacate our existing facilities in Irvine in April 2006. Our new facilities, which include expanded manufacturing capacity compared to our current facility in Irvine, will need to be qualified by regulatory agencies, including the FDA, prior to us being able to manufacture products at the new location. If we are not able to complete our relocation in a timely manner, the production of our neurovascular products may be delayed and our net sales and business could be materially adversely affected. Our business, net sales and results of operations may suffer if we do not pass the required regulatory inspections for our locations for manufacturing peripheral stents and our neurovascular products. We closed our New Brighton, Minnesota manufacturing facility in July 2005 and are still in the process of integrating our manufacturing operations formerly located in New Brighton, Minnesota, where we manufactured our peripheral stent product line, with our manufacturing operations in Plymouth, Minnesota. In addition, we intend to relocate our existing Irvine, California operations, including our manufacturing facility for our neurovascular products, to the new space we have leased in Irvine. We are required to pass regulatory inspections of the FDA, and possibly other regulatory agencies of countries in which we sell our products, anytime we transfer manufacturing operations to a new location. If we do not pass these inspections or do not pass them on our expected schedule, we may not have sufficient inventory of various products, which may result in a backlog of orders, customer dissatisfaction and a reduction in sales. Consequently, our business, net sales and results of operations may suffer. In addition, we are required to submit a pre-market approval supplement application to the FDA for approval of the change in manufacturing facilities for any devices marketed under a pre-market approval application. If we do not obtain timely approval of any required supplement application, our business, net sales and results of operations may also be negatively impacted. One of our families of products generates a large portion of our net sales. Our net sales and business prospects would be adversely affected if sales of this product were to decline. We are dependent on our Protégé GPS family of stents, which generated approximately 20% of our net sales in fiscal 2005 and more than 10% of our net sales in fiscal 2004. If our Protégé GPS stents were to 50 no longer be available for sale in any key market because of regulatory, intellectual property or any other reason, our net sales from these products and from products that typically constitute ancillary purchases would significantly decline. A significant decline in our net sales could also negatively impact our product development activities and therefore our business prospects. In March 2005, Medtronic, Inc. contacted us to express its view that our Protégé stents infringe on one or more of its patents, as described above. We informed Medtronic that we disagree with their assertions, and have since had several discussions with Medtronic. No lawsuit with respect to this matter has been filed. We are exposed to product liability claims that could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The manufacture and sale of medical devices exposes us to significant risk of product liability claims, some of which may have a negative impact on our business. Our existing products were developed relatively recently and defects or risks that we have not yet identified may give rise to product liability claims. In addition, we have recently initiated a new quality control system and a new manufacturing model which has not been in effect long enough for us to have the confidence that any errors or mistakes in implementation have been corrected. Our existing product liability insurance coverage may be inadequate to protect us from any liabilities we may incur or we may not be able to maintain adequate product liability insurance at acceptable rates. If a product liability claim or series of claims is brought against us for uninsured liabilities or in excess of our insurance coverage and it is ultimately determined that we are liable, our business could suffer. Additionally, we could experience a material design or manufacturing failure in our products, a quality system failure, other safety issues or heightened regulatory scrutiny that would warrant a recall of some of our products. A recall of some of our products could also result in increased product liability claims. Further, while we train our physician customers on the proper usage of our products, we cannot ensure that they will implement our instructions accurately. If our products are used incorrectly by our customers, injury may result and this could give rise to product liability claims against us. Any losses that we may suffer from any liability claims, and the effect that any product liability litigation may have upon the reputation and marketability of our products, may divert management’s attention from other matters and may have a negative impact on our business and our results of operations. Our net sales could decline significantly if drug-eluting stents become a dominant therapy in the peripheral vascular stent market and we are not able to develop or acquire a drug-eluting stent to market and sell. The peripheral vascular market is currently comprised exclusively of bare metal, or non drug-eluting, stents. However, there are clinical situations in the periphery in which a drug-eluting stent may demonstrate clinical superiority over bare metal stents. To the extent that our peripheral stent customers seek stents with drug coatings and we do not market and sell a drug-eluting peripheral stent or one that achieves market acceptance, we may not be able to compete as effectively with those of our competitors that are able to develop and sell a drug-eluting stent, and our peripheral stent sales could decline. If our peripheral stent sales were to decline, we could experience a significant decline in sales of some of our other products which are routinely purchased in conjunction with stent purchases. If we are unable to continue to develop and market new products and technologies, we may experience a decrease in demand for our products or our products could become obsolete, and our business would suffer. We are continually engaged in product development and improvement programs, and new products represent a significant component of our growth rate. We may not be able to compete effectively with our competitors unless we can keep up with existing or new products and technologies in the endovascular device market. If we do not continue to introduce new products and technologies, or if our new products 51 and technologies are not accepted, we may not be successful and our business would suffer. Moreover, many of our clinical trials have durations of several years and it is possible that competing therapies, such as drug therapies, may be introduced while our products are still undergoing clinical trials. This could reduce the potential demand for our products and negatively impact our business prospects. Additionally, our competitors’ new products and technologies may beat our products to market, may be more effective or less expensive than our products or render our products obsolete. The marketing of our products requires a significant amount of time and expense and we may not have the resources to successfully market our products, which would adversely affect our business and results of operations. The marketing of our products requires a significant amount of time and expense in order to identify the physicians who may use our products, invest in training and education, and employ a sales force that is large enough to interact with the targeted physicians. In addition, the marketing of our products requires interaction with many subspecialists who are moving into new practice areas and may require more training and education from our personnel than would be required with physicians who are not expanding their practice areas. We may not have adequate resources to market our products successfully against larger competitors which have more resources than we do. If we cannot market our products successfully, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. We face competition from other companies, many of which have substantially greater resources than we do and may be able to develop more effective products or offer their products at lower prices than we can, which could adversely impact our business, net sales and results of operations. Consolidation in the medical technology industry would exacerbate these risks. The markets in which we compete are highly competitive, subject to change and significantly affected by new product introductions and other activities of industry participants. The markets for our products are also dominated by a small number of large companies, and we are a much smaller company relative to our primary competitors. Our products compete with other medical devices, including Invatec manufactured products sold in the United States under other brand names, surgical procedures and pharmaceutical products. A number of the companies in the medical technology industry, including manufacturers of peripheral vascular, cardiovascular and neurovascular products, have substantially greater capital resources, larger customer bases, broader product lines, larger sales forces, greater marketing and management resources, larger research and development staffs and larger facilities than ours and have established reputations with our target customers, as well as worldwide distribution channels that are more effective than ours. In addition, the industry has recently experienced some consolidation. Consolidation could make the competitive environment more difficult for smaller companies. Because of the size of the vascular disease market opportunity, competitors and potential competitors have historically dedicated and will continue to dedicate significant resources to aggressively promote their products. New product developments that could compete with us more effectively are likely because the vascular disease market is characterized by extensive research efforts and technological progress. Competitors may develop technologies and products that are safer, more effective, easier to use, less expensive or more readily accepted than ours. Their products could make our technology and products obsolete or noncompetitive. Our competitors may also be able to achieve more efficient manufacturing and distribution operations than we can and may offer lower prices than we could offer profitably. We expect that as our products mature, we will be able to produce our products in a more cost effective manner and therefore be able to compete more effectively, but it is possible that we may not achieve such cost reductions. Any of these competitive factors could adversely impact our business, net sales and results of operations. We also compete with other manufacturers of medical devices for clinical sites to conduct human trials. If we are not able to locate clinical sites on a timely or cost-effective basis, this could impede our 52 ability to conduct trials of our products and, therefore, our ability to obtain required regulatory clearance or approval. We rely on our management information systems for inventory management, distribution and other functions and to maintain our research and development and clinical data. If our information systems fail to adequately perform these functions or if we experience an interruption in their operation, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our management information systems. We rely on our management information systems to effectively manage accounting and financial functions; manage order entry, order fulfillment and inventory replenishment processes; and to maintain our research and development and clinical data. The failure of our management information systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and product development and could result in decreased sales, increased overhead costs, excess inventory and product shortages, causing our business and results of operations to suffer. In addition, our management information systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: · earthquake, fire, flood and other natural disasters; · terrorist attacks and attacks by computer viruses or hackers; and · power loss or computer systems, Internet, telecommunications or data network failure. Any such interruption could adversely affect our business and results of operations. If we become profitable, we cannot assure you that our net operating losses will be available to reduce our tax liability. Our ability to use, or the amount of, our net operating losses may be limited or reduced. The businesses purchased by us in 2001 and 2002 experienced “ownership changes” within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. Generally, a change of more than 50 percentage points in the ownership of a company’s shares, by value, over the three-year period ending on the date the shares were acquired constitutes an ownership change, and these ownership changes limit our ability to use the acquired company’s net operating losses. Furthermore, the number of shares of our common stock issued in our initial public offering and in our recent transaction with MTI may be sufficient, taking into account prior or future shifts in our ownership over a three-year period, to cause us to undergo an ownership change. As a result, our ability to use our existing net operating losses that are not currently subject to limitation to offset U.S. federal taxable income if we become profitable may also become subject to substantial limitations. Further, the amount of our net operating losses could be reduced if any tax deductions taken by us are limited or disallowed by the Internal Revenue Service. All of these limitations could potentially result in increased future tax liability for us. One of our principal stockholders and its affiliates are able to influence matters requiring stockholder approval and could discourage the purchase of our outstanding shares at a premium. As of February 15, 2006, Warburg Pincus beneficially owned approximately 66.6% of our outstanding common stock. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale or merger of our company and may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Transactions that could be affected by this concentration of ownership include proxy contests, tender offers, mergers or other purchases of common stock that could give our stockholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for shares of our common stock. 53 As a result of Warburg Pincus’ share ownership and representation on our board of directors, Warburg Pincus is able to influence all affairs and actions of our company, including matters requiring stockholder approval, such as the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. The interests of our principal stockholder may differ from the interests of our other stockholders. For example, Warburg Pincus could oppose a third party offer to acquire our company that our other stockholders might consider attractive, and the third party may not be able or willing to proceed unless Warburg Pincus supports the offer. In addition, if our board of directors supports a transaction requiring an amendment to our certificate of incorporation, Warburg Pincus is currently in a position to defeat any required stockholder approval of the proposed amendment. If our board of directors supports an acquisition of our company by means of a merger or a similar transaction, the vote of Warburg Pincus alone is currently sufficient to approve or block the transaction under Delaware law. In each of these cases and in similar situations, our other stockholders may disagree with Warburg Pincus as to whether the action opposed or supported by Warburg Pincus is in the best interest of our stockholders. Certain of our principal stockholders may have conflicts of interests with our other stockholders or our company in the future. Certain of our principal stockholders, including Warburg Pincus, may make investments in companies and from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. These other investments may: · create competing financial demands on our principal stockholders; · create potential conflicts of interest; and · require efforts consistent with applicable law to keep the other businesses separate from our operations. These principal stockholders may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. Furthermore, these principal stockholders may have an interest in us pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investment, even though such transactions might involve risks to our stockholders. In addition, these principal stockholders’ rights to vote or dispose of equity interests in us are not subject to restrictions in favor of us other than as may be required by applicable law. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NASDAQ National Market listing requirements and, as a result, are exempt from certain corporate governance requirements. Because Warburg Pincus controls more than 50% of the voting power of our common stock, we are considered to be a “controlled company” for the purposes of the NASDAQ listing requirements. As such, we are permitted, and have elected, to opt out of NASDAQ listing requirements that would otherwise require our board of directors to have a majority of independent directors, our board nominations to be selected, or recommended for the board’s selection either by a nominating committee comprised entirely of independent directors or by a majority of our independent directors and our compensation committee to be comprised entirely of independent directors. Accordingly, you may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NASDAQ corporate governance requirements. 54 Our corporate documents and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition involving our company that our stockholders may consider favorable. For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 100 million shares of “blank check” preferred stock. Without stockholder approval, the board of directors has the authority to attach special rights, including voting and dividend rights, to this preferred stock. With these rights, preferred stockholders could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire our company. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides for a staggered board of directors, whereby directors serve for three year terms, with approximately one third of the directors coming up for reelection each year. Having a staggered board makes it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of our board of directors through a proxy contest, which may be a necessary step in an acquisition of our company that is not favored by our board of directors. We are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Under these provisions, if anyone becomes an “interested stockholder,” we may not enter into a “business combination” with that person for three years without special approval, which could discourage a third party from making a takeover offer and could delay or prevent a change of control. For purposes of Section 203, “interested stockholder” means, generally, someone owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or an affiliate of our company that owned 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock during the past three years, subject to certain exceptions as described in Section 203. Under one such exception, Warburg Pincus does not constitute an “interested stockholder.” The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources and distract management. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. These requirements may place a strain on our personnel, systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. In order to improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight are required. This may divert management’s attention from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We incur increased costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and NASDAQ, have required changes in our corporate governance practices. These rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs significantly and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, in anticipation of becoming a public company, we created additional board committees and adopted policies regarding internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures. In addition, we incur additional costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. We also expect these rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. 55 If we are unable to successfully address the material weakness in our internal controls, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected. As of December 31, 2005, we did not maintain effective controls over the preparation, review and presentation and disclosure of our consolidated statement of cash flows. Specifically, we incorrectly reported an interest payment on demand notes payable as a financing cash out-flow instead of an operating cash out-flow in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. This control deficiency resulted in the restatement of our consolidated financial statements for the quarters ended July 3, 2005 and October 2, 2005. Accordingly, management determined that this control deficiency constitutes a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005. A material weakness is a control deficiency or a combination of control deficiencies that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim consolidated financial statements will not be prevented or detected. Although we have taken steps to remediate the material weakness that existed as of December 31, 2005, we cannot assure that this control deficiency will not result in a misstatement in the future. These steps include a thorough review of the classification requirements of each component line item and the individual elements that comprise each line item of the statement of cash flows, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. In connection with their audits of our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2004, our independent registered public accounting firm reported two conditions, which together constituted a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting regarding our ability to produce financial statements free from material misstatements. Our independent registered public accounting firm reported to us that we did not have a sufficient number of senior level financial personnel, and our controls over non-routine transactions did not ensure that accounting considerations were identified and appropriately recorded. These two conditions, in combination, constituted a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. Our management and audit committee agreed that the conditions identified by our independent registered public accounting firm in their audits of the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2004 constituted a material weakness. We developed a plan to address this material weakness that included the addition of a new chief financial officer, a director of external reporting and additional professional accounting personnel. On an interim basis, we engaged two senior financial consultants in the fourth quarter of 2004 to provide an immediate expansion in our technical finance and accounting resources. These individuals were retained through June 2005 to ensure adequate time for transition to our new full-time employees. Effective April 2005, we hired a new chief financial officer, who has 19 years of experience in the medical device manufacturing industry working for both public and private companies. We also hired a new controller in April 2005, who came to us from a Big Four public accounting firm and has significant experience in both public and private accounting. Our controller oversees external reporting with assistance from a newly hired senior analyst. Our prior controller, who has been with us for approximately four years, has become our Director of International Finance. In May 2005, we added an additional senior staff level accounting position. With the addition of these individuals, we believe that we have a sufficient number of skilled personnel to reasonably ensure that we have the ability to produce financial statements free from material misstatements. We have also engaged a consulting firm to assist us in assessing our internal control over financial reporting and remediating any control deficiencies. As a result of these measures, we have concluded that the material weakness identified by our independent registered public accounting firm in connection with their audits of our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2004 was fully remediated as of October 2, 2005. However, we will continue to assess the adequacy and appropriateness of our financial staff and adjust accordingly as changes in our business warrant. We cannot be certain that additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be discovered in the future. Any failure to remediate the unremediated material 56 weakness described above or any future material weaknesses or to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our consolidated financial statements. Any such failure also could adversely affect the results of the periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our “internal control over financial reporting” that will be required when the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act become applicable to us beginning with our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2006 to be filed in early 2007. Inadequate internal control over financial reporting could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could cause our stock price to decline. We will be exposed to risks relating to evaluations of controls required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related regulations implemented by the SEC and NASDAQ, are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time consuming. We will be evaluating our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal control over financial reporting. We will be performing the system and process evaluation and testing (and any necessary remediation) required to comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. While we anticipate being able to fully implement the requirements of Section 404 by our December 31, 2006 deadline, we cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations since there is presently no precedent available by which to measure compliance adequacy. If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, including the SEC or NASDAQ. This type of action could adversely affect our financial results or investors’ confidence in us and our ability to access capital markets, and could cause our stock price to decline. In addition, the controls and procedures that we will implement may not comply with all of the relevant rules and regulations of the SEC and NASDAQ. If we fail to develop and maintain effective controls and procedures, we may be unable to provide the required financial information in a timely and reliable manner. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 