RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risks together with all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those we currently view as immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited to, the risk factors set forth below (See—Special Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements). Risks Relating to Our Business We are dependent on the convenience store industry for our revenues, and our results of operations would suffer if there is an overall decline in the convenience store industry. The majority of our sales are made under purchase orders and short-term contracts with convenience stores which inherently involve significant risks. These risks include the uncertainty of general economic conditions in the convenience store industry, credit exposure from our customers and termination of customer relationships without notice, consolidation of our customer base, and consumer movement toward purchasing from club stores. Any of these factors could negatively affect the convenience store industry which would negatively affect our results of operations. We face competition in our distribution markets and if we are unable to compete effectively in any distribution market, we may lose market share and suffer a decline in sales. Our distribution centers operate in highly competitive markets. We face competition from local, regional and national tobacco and consumable products distributors on the basis of service, price and variety of products offered, schedules and reliability of deliveries, and the range and quality of services provided. Some of our competitors, including a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., McLane Company, Inc., the largest convenience wholesale distributor in the United States have substantial financial resources and long standing customer relationships. In addition, heightened competition among our existing competitors or by new entrants into the distribution market could create additional competitive pressures that may reduce our margins and adversely affect our business. If we fail to successfully respond to these competitive pressures or to implement our strategies effectively, we may lose market share and our results of operations could suffer. If we are not able to retain existing customers and attract new customers, our results of operations could suffer. Increasing the growth and profitability of our distribution business is particularly dependent upon our ability to retain existing customers and capture additional distribution customers. The ability to capture additional customers through our existing network of distribution centers is especially important because it enables us to leverage our distribution centers and other fixed assets. Our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers is dependent upon our ability to provide industry-leading customer service, offer competitive products at low prices, maintain high levels of productivity and efficiency in distributing products to our customers while integrating new customers into our distribution system, and offer marketing, merchandising and ancillary services that provide value to our customers. If we are unable to execute these tasks effectively, we may not be able to attract a significant number of new customers and our existing customer base could decrease, either or both of which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. 9 Table of Contents We may be unable to recover lost profits that resulted from the decision of the largest tobacco manufacturer in Canada, Imperial Tobacco Canada, to engage in direct-to-store delivery. Other manufacturers may also decide to engage in direct-to-store delivery. Imperial Tobacco implemented plans to bypass wholesale distributors such as ourselves and began making direct-to-store delivery of its products in September 2006. We applied a surcharge or mark up on other products we distribute to our Canadian customers in an attempt to recover our lost profits that resulted from the Imperial Tobacco decision. We are unable to predict with certainty the sustainability of such actions and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Competition could impact the sustainability of our actions to recover our lost profits. It is possible that other cigarette and food/non-food manufacturers could chose to move to direct-to-store delivery which could adversely impact our results of operations. If the costs to us of the products we distribute increase and we cannot pass the increase on to our customers, our results of operations could be adversely affected. If we cannot pass along to our customers increases in our cost of goods sold which we experience when manufacturers increase prices or reduce or eliminate discounts and incentive programs, our profit margins could erode. Our industry is characterized by a high volume of sales with relatively low profit margins. If we cannot pass along cost increases to our customers due to resistance to higher prices, our relatively narrow profit margins and earnings could be negatively affected. We rely on funding from manufacturer discounts and incentives programs and cigarette excise stamping allowances and material changes in these programs could adversely affect our results of operations. We receive payments from the manufacturers of the products we distribute for allowances, discounts, volume rebates, and other merchandising and incentive programs. These payments are a substantial benefit to us and the amount and timing of these payments are affected by changes in the programs by the manufacturers, our ability to sell specified volumes of a particular product or attaining specified levels of purchases by our customers, and the duration of carrying a specified product. In addition, we receive discounts from states in connection with the purchase of excise stamps for cigarettes. If the manufacturers or states change or discontinue these programs or we are unable to maintain the volume of our sales, our results of operations could be negatively affected. We depend on relatively few suppliers for a large portion of our products, and any interruptions in the supply of the products that we distribute could adversely affect our results of operations. We obtain the products we distribute from third party suppliers. At December 31, 2006, we had approximately 3,900 vendors, and during 2006 we purchased approximately 62% of our products from our top 20 suppliers, with our top two suppliers, Philip Morris and R. J. Reynolds, representing approximately 25% and 15% of our purchases, respectively. We do not have any long-term contracts with our suppliers committing them to provide products to us. Although our purchasing volume can provide leverage when dealing with suppliers, suppliers may not provide the products we distribute in the quantities we request or on favorable terms. Since we do not control the actual production of the products we distribute, we are also subject to delays caused by interruption in production based on conditions outside our control. These conditions include job actions or strikes by employees of suppliers, inclement weather, transportation interruptions, and natural disasters or other catastrophic events. Our inability to obtain adequate supplies of the products we distribute as a result of any of the foregoing factors or otherwise, could cause us to fail to meet our obligations to our customers. Cigarette and consumable goods distribution is a low-margin business sensitive to economic conditions. We derive most of our revenues from the distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, candy, snacks, fast food, groceries, fresh products, dairy, non-alcoholic beverages, general merchandise and health and beauty care products. Our industry is characterized by a high volume of sales with relatively low profit margins. Our food/non-food sales are at prices that are based on the cost of the product plus a percentage markup. As a result, 10 Table of Contents our profit levels may be negatively impacted during periods of cost deflation for these products, even though our gross profit as a percentage of the price of goods sold may remain relatively constant. Periods of product cost inflation may also have a negative impact on our profit margins and earnings with respect to sales of cigarettes. Gross profit on cigarette sales are generally fixed on a cents per carton basis. Therefore, as cigarette prices increase, gross profit generally decreases as a percent of sales. In addition, if the cost of the cigarettes that we purchase increase due to manufacturer price increases or increases in applicable excise tax rates, our inventory costs and accounts receivable could rise. To the extent that product cost increases are not passed on to our customers due to their resistance to higher prices, our profit margins and earnings could be negatively impacted. Some of our distribution centers are dependent on a few relatively large customers, and our failure to maintain our relationships with these customers could substantially harm our business and prospects. Some of our distribution centers are dependent on relationships with a single customer or a few customers, and we expect our reliance on these relationships to continue for the foreseeable future. Any termination or non-renewal of customer relationships could severely and adversely affect the revenues generated by certain of our distribution centers. Any future termination, non-renewal or reduction in services that we provide to these select customers would cause our revenues to decline and our operating results would be harmed. Our business is sensitive to general economic conditions and, in particular, to gasoline prices and the labor market. The consumable goods distribution industry is sensitive to national and regional economic conditions. Inflation, fuel costs and other factors affecting consumer confidence generally may negatively impact our sales. Our operating results are also sensitive to, and may be adversely affected by, other factors, including difficulties with the collectability of accounts receivable, competitive price pressures, severe weather conditions and unexpected increases in fuel or other transportation-related costs. Due to the low margins on the products we distribute, changes in general economic conditions could materially adversely affect our operating results. Two particular economic factors may have a significant impact our sales, margins and costs. First, our retailers have reported to us that when gasoline prices increased they have in the past experienced a decrease in the proportion of their customers’ expenditures on food/non-food products compared to customers’ expenditures on cigarettes. If gasoline prices were to undergo a sustained increase and a similar shift in expenditures were to result, we could experience pressure on our sales and gross margins since sales of food/non-food products result in higher margins than sales of cigarettes do. Historically, we have been able to pass on a substantial portion of increases in our own fuel costs to our customers in the form of fuel surcharges, but our ability to continue to pass through price increases, either from manufacturers or costs incurred in the business, including labor and fuel costs, is not assured. Second, our results are sensitive to the labor market. For example, the strength of the employment market in the transportation sector has led to a shortage of qualified drivers in some areas, increasing our costs as we are required to use more temporary drivers and increase wages for permanent drivers in the affected areas. Shortages of qualified warehouse and other employees could similarly increase our costs. We operate in a competitive labor market and a portion of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Our continued success will partly depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. We compete with other businesses in each of our markets with respect to attracting and retaining qualified employees. A shortage of qualified employees could require us to enhance our wage and benefits packages in order to compete effectively in the hiring and retention of qualified employees or to hire more expensive temporary employees. In addition, at December 31, 2006 approximately 5%, or approximately 200, of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements with labor organizations, which expire at various times over the course of the next two years. 11 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew our respective collective bargaining agreements on favorable terms, that employees at other facilities will not unionize, that our labor costs will not increase, that we will be able to recover any increases in labor costs through increased prices charged to customers or that we will not suffer business interruptions as a result of strikes or other work stoppages. If we fail to attract and retain qualified employees, to control our labor costs, or to recover any increased labor costs through increased prices charged to our customers or offsets by productivity gains, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may be subject to product liability claims which could materially adversely affect our business, and our operations could be subject to disruptions as a result of manufacturer recalls of products. Core-Mark, as with other distributors of food and consumer products, faces the risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of products sold by us causes injury or illness. With respect to product liability claims, we believe that we have sufficient liability insurance coverage and indemnities from manufacturers. However, product liability insurance may not continue to be available at a reasonable cost, or, if available, may not be adequate to cover all of our liabilities. We generally seek contractual indemnification and insurance coverage from parties supplying the products we distribute, but this indemnification or insurance coverage is limited, as a practical matter, to the creditworthiness of the indemnifying party and the insured limits of any insurance provided by suppliers. If we do not have adequate insurance or if contractual indemnification is not available or if the counterparty can not fulfill its indemnification obligation, product liability relating to defective products could materially adversely impact our results of operations. We may be required to manage a recall of products on behalf of a manufacturer. Managing a recall could disrupt our operations as we might be required to devote substantial resources toward implementing the recall, which could materially adversely affect our ability to provide quality service to our customers. We depend on our senior management and key personnel. We substantially depend on the continued services and performance of our senior management and other key personnel. We do not maintain key person life insurance policies on these individuals, and we do not have employment agreements with any of our executive officers. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or key employees could harm our business. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our revenues and financial results. We generate a significant portion of our revenues in Canadian dollars, approximately 18% in 2006 and 21% in 2005. We also incur a significant portion of our expenses, in Canadian dollars. To the extent that we are unable to match revenues received in Canadian dollars with costs paid in the same currency, exchange rate fluctuations in Canadian dollars could have an adverse effect on our revenues and financial results. During times of a strengthening U.S. dollar, our reported sales and earnings from our Canadian operations will be reduced because the Canadian currency will be translated into fewer U.S. dollars. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) requires that such foreign currency transaction gains or losses on intercompany transactions be recorded as a gain or loss within the income statement. To the extent we incur losses on such transactions, our net income and earnings per share will be reduced. We may not be able to borrow the additional capital to provide us with sufficient liquidity and capital resources necessary to meet our future financial obligations. We expect that our principal sources of funds will be cash generated from our operations and, if necessary, borrowings under our $250 million 2005 Credit Facility. While we believe our sources of liquidity are adequate, we cannot assure you that these sources will provide us with sufficient liquidity and capital resources required to meet our future financial obligations, or to provide funds for our working capital, capital expenditures and other 12 Table of Contents needs for the foreseeable future. We may require additional equity or debt financing to meet our working capital requirements or to fund our capital expenditures. We may not be able to obtaining financing on terms satisfactory to us, or at all. Our operating flexibility is limited in significant respects by the restrictive covenants in our 2005 Credit Facility. Our 2005 Credit Facility imposes restrictions on us that could increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions by limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and industry. Specifically, these restrictions limit our ability, among other things, to: incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends and make distributions, issue stock of subsidiaries, make investments, repurchase stock, create liens, enter into transactions with affiliates, merge or consolidate, or transfer and sell our assets. In addition, under our 2005 Credit Facility, under certain circumstances we are required to meet a fixed charge coverage ratio. Our ability to comply with this covenant may be affected by factors beyond our control and a breach of the covenant could result in an event of default under our 2005 Credit Facility, which would permit the lenders to declare all amounts incurred thereunder to be immediately due and payable and terminate their commitments to make further extensions of credit. We are subject to governmental regulation and if we are unable to comply with regulations that affect our business or if there are substantial changes in these regulations, our business could be adversely affected. As a distributor of food products, we are subject to the regulation by the United States Food and Drug Administration. In addition, our employees operate tractor trailers, trucks, forklifts and various other powered material handling equipment. Our operations are also subject to regulation by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Department of Transportation, Drug Enforcement Agency and other federal, state and local agencies. Each of these regulatory authorities has broad administrative powers with respect to our operations. If we fail to adequately comply with government regulations or regulations become more stringent, we could experience increased inspections, regulatory authorities could take remedial action including imposing fines or shutting down our operations or we could be subject to increased compliance costs. If any of these events were to occur, our results of operations would be adversely affected. Earthquake and natural disaster damage could have a material adverse affect on our business. We are headquartered in, and conduct a significant portion of our operations in, California. Our operations in California are susceptible to damage from earthquakes. In addition, one of our data centers is located in Richmond, British Columbia, Canada which location is susceptible to earthquakes, and one of our data centers is located in Plano, Texas which is susceptible to wind storms. We believe that we maintain adequate insurance to indemnify us for losses. However, significant earthquake and natural disaster damage could result in losses in excess of our insurance coverage which would materially adversely affect our results of operations. We also have operations in areas that have been affected by natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornados, flooding, ice and snow storms. While we maintain insurance to indemnify us for losses due to such occurrences, our insurance may not be sufficient or payments under our policies may not be received timely enough to prevent adverse impacts on our business. Our customers could also be affected by like events, adversely impacting our sales. Our information technology systems may be subject to failure or disruptions, which could seriously harm our business. Our business is highly dependent on our Distribution Center Management System, or DCMS. The convenience store industry does not have a standard information technology or IT platform. Therefore, actively integrating our customers into our IT platform is a priority, and our DCMS platform provides our distribution centers with the flexibility to adapt to our customers’ IT requirements. We also rely on DCMS and our internal information technology staff to maintain the information required to operate our distribution centers and provide 13 Table of Contents our customers with fast, efficient and reliable deliveries. While we have taken steps to increase redundancy in our IT systems, if our DCMS fails or is subject to disruptions, we may suffer disruptions in service to our customers and our results of operations could suffer. Risks Relating to the Distribution of Cigarettes Our sales volume is largely dependent upon the distribution of cigarette products, sales of which are declining. The distribution of cigarette and other tobacco products is currently a significant portion of our business. For the year ended December 31, 2006, approximately 71% of our revenues came from the distribution of cigarettes. During the same period, approximately 33% of our gross profit was generated from cigarettes. Due to increases in the prices of cigarettes and other tobacco products, restrictions on advertising and promotions by cigarette manufacturers, increases in cigarette regulation and excise taxes, health concerns, increased pressure from anti-tobacco groups and other factors, the United States and Canadian cigarette and tobacco market has generally been declining, and is expected to continue to decline. Notwithstanding the general decline in consumption, we have benefited from a shift of cigarette and tobacco sales to convenience stores. However, this favorable trend may not continue and may reverse. Legislation and other matters are negatively affecting the cigarette and tobacco industry. The tobacco industry is subject to a wide range of laws and regulations regarding the advertising, sale, taxation and use of tobacco products imposed by local, state, federal and foreign governments. Various state and provincial governments have adopted or are considering legislation and regulations restricting displays and advertising of tobacco products, establishing fire safety standards for cigarettes, raising the minimum age to possess or purchase tobacco products, requiring the disclosure of ingredients used in the manufacture of tobacco products, imposing restrictions on public smoking, restricting the sale of tobacco products directly to consumers or other unlicensed recipients over the Internet, and other tobacco product regulation. For example, in British Columbia, Canada, legislation was adopted authorizing the provincial government to seek recovery of tobacco-related health care costs from the tobacco industry and a lawsuit under such legislation is underway. The Supreme Court of Canada unanimously upheld the Province’s right to sue the tobacco industry and concluded the Tobacco Damages and Health Care Costs Recovery Act is constitutional. Other states and provinces may adopt similar legislation and initiate similar lawsuits. In addition, cigarettes are subject to substantial excise taxes in the United States and Canada. Significant increases in cigarette-related taxes have been proposed or enacted and are likely to continue to be proposed or enacted within the United States and Canada. These tax increases are likely to continue to have an adverse impact on sales of cigarettes due to lower consumption levels or sales outside of legitimate channels. In the United States we purchase cigarettes primarily from manufacturers covered by the tobacco industry’s Master Settlement Agreement (or MSA), which results in our facing certain financial risks including competition from lower priced sales of cigarettes produced by manufacturers who do not participate in the MSA. In June 1994, the Mississippi attorney general brought an action against various tobacco industry members on behalf of the state to recover state funds paid for health-care costs related to tobacco use. Most other states sued the major United States cigarette manufacturers based on similar theories. The cigarette manufacturer defendants settled the first four of these cases with Mississippi, Florida, Texas and Minnesota by separate agreements. These states are referred to as non-MSA states. In November 1998, the major United States tobacco product manufacturers entered into the MSA with the other 46 states, the District of Columbia, and certain United States territories. The MSA and the other state settlement agreements settled health-care cost recovery actions and monetary claims relating to future conduct arising out of the use of, or exposure to, tobacco products, imposed a stream of future payment obligations on major United States cigarette manufacturers and placed 14 Table of Contents significant restrictions on the ability to market and sell cigarettes. The payments required under the MSA result in the products sold by the participating manufacturers to be priced at higher levels than non-MSA manufacturers. In order to limit our potential tobacco related liabilities, we try to limit our purchases of cigarettes from non-MSA manufacturers for sale in MSA states. The benefits of liability limitations and indemnities we are entitled to under the MSA do not apply to sales of cigarettes manufactured by non-MSA manufacturers. From time to time we purchase a limited amount of cigarettes from non-MSA manufacturers when circumstances limit our ability to avoid doing so. For example, during a transition period while integrating distribution operations from an acquisition we may need to purchase and distribute cigarettes manufactured by non-MSA manufacturers to satisfy the demands of customers of the acquired business. With respect to sales of such non-MSA cigarettes, we could be subject to litigation that could expose us to liabilities for which we would not be indemnified. If the tobacco industry’s master settlement agreement is invalidated, or tobacco manufacturers cannot meet their obligations to indemnify us, we could be subject to substantial litigation liability. In connection with the MSA, we are indemnified by the tobacco product manufacturers from which we purchase cigarettes and other tobacco products for liabilities arising from our sale of the tobacco products that they supply to us. To date, litigation challenging the validity of the MSA, including claims that the MSA violates antitrust laws, has not been successful. However, if such litigation were to be successful and the MSA is invalidated, we could be subject to substantial litigation due to our sales of cigarettes and other tobacco products, and we may not be indemnified for such costs by the tobacco product manufacturers in the future. In addition, even if we continue to be indemnified by cigarette manufacturers that are parties to the MSA, future litigation awards against such cigarette manufacturers and us could be so large as to eliminate the ability of the manufacturers to satisfy their indemnification obligations. We face competition from sales of deep-discount brands and illicit and other low priced sales of cigarettes. As a result of purchasing cigarettes for sale in MSA states primarily from manufacturers that are parties to the MSA, we are adversely impacted by sales of brands from non-MSA manufacturers and deep-discount brands manufactured by small manufacturers that are not original participants to the MSA. The cigarettes subject to the MSA that we sell have been negatively impacted by widening price gaps between those brands and deep-discount brands for the past several years. Growth in market share of deep-discount brands since the MSA was signed in 1998 has had an adverse impact on the volume of the cigarettes that we sell. We also face competition from the diversion into the United States market of cigarettes intended for sale outside the United States, the sale of counterfeit cigarettes by third parties, the sale of cigarettes in non-taxable jurisdictions, inter-state and international smuggling of cigarettes, increased imports of foreign low priced brands, the sale of cigarettes by third parties over the internet and by other means designed to avoid collection of applicable taxes. The competitive environment has been characterized by a continued influx of cheap products that challenge sales of higher priced and taxed cigarettes manufactured by parties to the MSA. Increased sales of counterfeit cigarettes, sales by third parties over the internet, or sales by means to avoid the collection of applicable taxes, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Cigarettes and other tobacco products are subject to substantial excise taxes and if these taxes are increased, our sales of cigarettes and other tobacco products could decline. Cigarettes and tobacco products are subject to substantial excise taxes in the United States and Canada. Significant increases in cigarette-related taxes and/or fees have been proposed or enacted and are likely to continue to be proposed or enacted within the United States and Canada. For example, several states passed propositions or ballot measures during 2006 which will have the effect of increasing excise taxes on cigarettes and other tobacco products. These tax increases are expected to continue to have an adverse impact on sales of 15 Table of Contents cigarettes due to lower consumption levels and a shift in sales from the premium to the non-premium or discount cigarette segments or to sales outside of legitimate channels. In addition, state and local governments may require us to prepay for excise tax stamps placed on packages of cigarettes and other tobacco products that we sell. If these excise taxes are substantially increased, it could have a negative impact on our liquidity. Accordingly, we may be required to obtain additional debt financing, which we may not be able to obtain on satisfactory terms or at all. Our inability to prepay the excise taxes may prevent or delay our purchase of cigarettes and other tobacco products, which could materially adversely affect our ability to supply our customers. Risks Relating to an Investment in Our Common Stock Approximately 1.3 million of our outstanding shares held by Fleming have yet to be distributed pursuant to the Plan. Pursuant to the Plan, we issued an aggregate of 9.8 million shares of our common stock to Fleming. As of December 31, 2006, 8.5 million shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase 1.2 million shares of our common stock have been distributed by Fleming pursuant to the Plan. An aggregate of 1.3 million shares of our common stock are subject to future distribution pursuant to the Plan by Fleming. Future distributions of the remaining 1.3 million shares of common stock pursuant to the Plan by Fleming are at the discretion of the PCT and the bankruptcy court and are not in our control. In addition, as of December 31, 2006, 10.2 million shares of our common stock were outstanding. The distribution of a significant amount of shares of common stock onto the market or the sale of a substantial number of shares at any given time could result in a decline in the price of our common stock, cause dilution, or increase volatility. We have identified one material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting existing as of December 31, 2006. If we fail to remedy this material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, such failure could result in material misstatements in our financial statements, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. A material weakness is defined in standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board as a deficiency in internal control over financial reporting that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. As discussed below in “Item 9.A. Controls and Procedures,” we have concluded that the following material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting existed as December 31, 2006: • The Company did not maintain effective controls over the financial reporting process due to an insufficient complement of personnel with an appropriate level of accounting knowledge, experience and training in the application of generally accepted accounting principles commensurate with its financial reporting requirements and the complexity of the Company’s operations and transactions. We believe substantial progress has been made in the remediation of this material weakness. However, a number of the staffing and organizational changes which were made in order to remediate this weakness were not accomplished until the later half of 2006 and have not had sufficient time to be fully integrated into the operations of our internal control over financial reporting. As such, the identified material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting will not be considered remediated until the organizational changes are in operation for a sufficient period of time for our management to conclude that the control environment is operating effectively. ITEM 1.B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 16 Table of Contents 