risk factors, surgical clipping, a microsurgery, of an aneurysm may be recommended. In this procedure, patients are placed under general anesthesia, an opening is made in the skull, the brain tissue is spread apart, and the aneurysm is surgically exposed. The neurosurgeon then places a surgical clip around the aneurysm’s base. The clip seals off the aneurysm so blood cannot enter. Possible complications from surgical clipping include infection at the incision site, rupturing the aneurysm during surgery and damage to the artery and bleeding into the brain which could result in brain damage. As with other surgical procedures, the anesthesia used during the procedure also has risks. Driven by rapid advances in device technology and results from the International Subarachnoid Aneurysm Trial, or ISAT, the results of which were published in The Lancet in October of 2002, the treatment of aneurysms, as well as AVMs, has been shifting from open surgical techniques, such as surgical clipping, to minimally invasive, endovascular techniques, such as embolic coiling. The ISAT was an independent, randomized clinical trial involving 2,143 patients in Europe, North America and Australia that compared aneurysm clipping with embolic coiling as a method of treating cerebral aneurysms. The trial concluded, based on a survey of patients participating in the trial, endovascular intervention with detachable platinum coils resulted in a 23% relative and 7% absolute reduction in the risk of major brain injury or death compared with neurosurgical clipping of the aneurysm at one-year follow up. The seven-year follow up data published in The Lancet in September 2005 indicated a continued clinical advantage for patients who underwent coiling versus clipping procedures. The market transition to endovascular techniques, such as embolic coiling, has been more rapid in geographies outside of the United States. The primary endovascular procedure for treating both aneurysms and AVMs uses a repair technique called embolization, the objective of which is to induce a blood clot, or thrombus, in the diseased vasculature. The purpose of the thrombus is to limit blood flow through the diseased vascular anatomy, thereby reducing blood pressure and flow to a ruptured area or the likelihood of rupture in an unruptured area. The endovascular embolization of cerebral aneurysms usually involves the deployment of small coils composed of metal or a combination of metal and polymer. We believe that embolic coils represent one of the largest categories of products in the neurovascular device market and were used in over 70,000 procedures worldwide in 2009. Embolic coils are used in virtually all endovascular treatments of aneurysms and in some AVMs. During a coiling procedure, the physician accesses the femoral artery through a tiny incision in the groin or inner thigh where a tiny hollow tube or sheath is inserted into the artery wall to allow the introduction of a catheter which is inserted and guided by a guidewire and with the use of computer-aided X-ray scanners through the artery and up towards the brain. Once the catheter is in place, the guidewire is removed, leaving the catheter in place. A contrast dye is introduced via the catheter into the bloodstream in order to make the artery and the aneurysm clearly visible and to 14 Table of Contents aid in obtaining clear radiographic images. A microcatheter is then introduced through the larger catheter and used to deliver coils through the neck and into the sac of the aneurysm. The coils are approximately twice the thickness of a human hair and there are several types of coils which vary in shape, pliability and levels of softness. They are attached to the end of the microcatheter. The coils placed are generally of progressively smaller sizes. They are individually placed and often detached from the microcatheter by a small electric current or a mechanical detachment mechanism. Within the microcatheter the coils are straight but, after placement in the aneurysm, they bend in a helix shape and conform to the shape of the aneurysm walls. This process is repeated until approximately 35% to 45% of the volume of the aneurysm is filled with coils. The coils then form a mesh similar to steel wool. Eventually, blood cells are caught and clot on the mesh in a process called “thrombosis,” effectively filling and sealing off the aneurysm from the artery circulation. The procedure requires a high level of precision and skill to avoid either under or over-filling the aneurysm, since over-filling may cause rupture or painful pressure on adjacent tissue and under-filling may permit the aneurysm to reform or grow. Balloon-assisted coiling involves a tiny balloon catheter which covers the neck or entrance to the aneurysm, holding the coils in place. Stent-assisted coiling involves a small cylindrical mesh tube which acts as scaffolding along the neck of the aneurysm to hold the mass of coils in place. The development of supple, more flexible stents and balloons has allowed stent-assisted and balloon-assisted coiling of irregular fusiform and wide-necked aneurysms in some cases. Coiling does not involve surgically opening the head and may be done under local or general anesthesia. Possible complications include rupture of the aneurysm during treatment and damage to the artery and bleeding into the brain which could result in brain damage, as well as risks from the anesthesia. However, because coiling is a less invasive procedure than surgical clipping and results in lower treatment costs, shorter recovery times and less trauma to the patient, it has become a widely accepted treatment for aneurysms. Embolic coiling, however, is not as effective in treating large and giant, wide-neck or non-saccular aneurysms. In addition, incomplete aneurysm occlusion and recurrence are major shortcomings of embolic coiling, as well as other current therapy options. An alternative treatment to coiling or one that could be used in conjunction with coiling is flow diversion. Flow diversion represents a new class of cerebral embolization device that is designed to divert blood flow away from an aneurysm in order to provide a complete and durable aneurysm embolization while maintaining patency of the parent vessel. Although flow diversion devices are used in certain European countries to treat aneurysms, they have not yet gained regulatory approval in the United States. The best treatment for an AVM depends upon what type it is, the symptoms it may be causing, its location and size and whether the AVM has bled before. If there are no symptoms or almost none, or if an AVM is in an area of the brain that cannot be easily treated, no medical intervention may be recommended. Instead, the person is often advised to simply avoid any activities that may excessively elevate blood pressure, such as heavy lifting or straining, and avoid blood thinners, like warfarin. If an AVM has bled, there is an increased risk that it will bleed again thus prompting a more aggressive approach to treatment. If the AVM is located in an area that can be easily operated upon, then surgical resection, or removal, may be recommended. An AVM that is not too large, but is in an area that is difficult to reach by regular surgery, may be treated by performing stereotactic radiosurgery. In this procedure, a cerebral angiogram is done to localize the AVM and focused-beam high energy sources are then concentrated on the brain AVM to produce direct damage to the vessels that will cause a scar and allow the AVM to “clot off.” Finally, as with aneurysms, minimally invasive, endovascular techniques are increasingly being used to treat AVMs and may be used in conjunction with surgical resection or radiosurgery. In such procedures, a catheter is placed inside the blood vessels that supply the AVM, and the abnormal blood vessels are intentionally blocked to stop blood flowing to the AVM with a variety of different materials, such as liquid glues, liquid polymers or other very small polymer particles, microcoils and other materials. Our Neurovascular Product Portfolio Our neurovascular product portfolio includes embolic coils, flow diversion and restoration devices, liquid embolics, flow directed and other micro catheters, occlusion balloon systems, guidewires, neuro stents and retrieval devices. Embolic Coils Our embolic coil products are delivered using a combination of our minimally invasive guidewires, microcatheters, stents and balloons. During an aneurysm procedure, the embolization coils are attached to a hypotube and are passed 15 Table of Contents through a delivery catheter into the aneurysm space. The coil is then detached from the hypotube, the hypotube is removed and the next coil is advanced through the catheter. Axium Detachable Coil System. We launched our Axium Detachable Coil System on a worldwide basis in the fourth quarter of 2007. During the fourth quarter of 2009, we concluded our physician preference testing for two new versions of the Axium coil, the Axium PGLA and Axium Nylon microfilament coils, in the U.S. and Europe and are in the process of launching these products for broad commercial availability. Our Axium coils are intended for the endovascular embolization of intracranial aneurysms and the embolization of other neurovascular abnormalities, such as AVMs and arteriovenous fistulae. They are also indicated for use in the European Union for the treatment of peripheral vascular abnormalities. We designed our Axium coils in an effort to meet the performance criteria of a diverse group of leading neurosurgeons and interventional neuroradiologists. Unique features and benefits of our Axium coils include: • a high degree of coil conformability, which facilitates the physician’s goal of more easily and completely filling and packing the aneurysm, regardless of its shape and size; • coil softness combined with stretch resistance, which allows the coil to be positioned or re-positioned within the aneurysm without adding to the risk of bleeding or hemorrhagic stroke; • ease of coil placement though the microcatheter, providing the physician with enhanced control and deliverability; and • rapid, safe and simple detachment of the coil through a proprietary, micro-machined mechanical detachment system that offers instantaneous coil detachment without the use of wires or syringes. This facilitates precise and rapid coil deployment thereby minimizing procedure time, which may be especially important in a ruptured aneurysm or when blood flow to the brain has been restricted. Nexus Embolic Coils. We also offer our Nexus line of coils in the United States and international markets, including our latest addition to the Nexus family, the Nexus Morpheus. Our Nexus coils are intended for the endovascular embolization of intracranial aneurysms that because of their morphology, their location or the patient’s general medical condition are considered by the treating neurosurgical team to be very high risk for management by traditional operative techniques or inoperable. Our Nexus coils are also intended for the embolization of other neurovascular abnormalities, such as AVMs and arteriovenous fistulae. Our Nexus line of coils consists of framing, filling and finishing coil offerings, allowing physicians to treat a wide range of aneurysm shapes and sizes. All Nexus coils incorporate a nitinol filament, which offers improved shape retention and increased resistance to coil compaction. Nexus also incorporates a bioactive microfilament technology to enhance aneurysm healing. The Morpheus is a three-dimensional soft and conformable coil that does not sacrifice the compaction resistance inherent with the nitinol core. NXT. We also offer our older generation NXT line of detachable coils in the United States and international markets. The NXT family includes framing, filling and finishing coils and are sold in a wide range of shapes and configurations. Many of the NXT products incorporate the use of nitinol technology, resulting in less stretching for more confident positioning and better resistance to compaction, while its enhanced shape memory provides a more supportive basket and optimal bridging of the neck of the aneurysm, compared to coils without nitinol. Flow Diversion Devices Pipeline Embolization Device. As a result of our acquisition of Chestnut Medical Technologies, Inc. in June of 2009, we market and sell the Pipeline Embolization Device in Europe and on a limited basis in other international markets such as Canada, Australia and the Middle East and are in the process of conducting two clinical studies under U.S. FDA investigational device exemptions (IDE) to gain approval for the Pipeline Embolization Device in the United States. Our Pipeline Embolization Device is a new class of cerebral embolization device that is designed to divert blood flow away from an aneurysm in order to provide a complete and durable aneurysm embolization while maintaining patency of the parent vessel. The Pipeline Embolization Device is a self-expanding, microcatheter-delivered, cylindrical mesh device composed of individual braided cobalt chromium and platinum strands. Multiple devices 16 Table of Contents can be deployed within each other (telescoped) to create a composite endovascular construct. The degree of metal surface area coverage can be manipulated by varying the technique of device deployment, as well as by choosing the number of overlapping devices placed in a particular vascular segment. Because the Pipeline Embolization Device reconstructs the entire length of the treated parent vessel, it has proven effective despite the neck width of the aneurysm, large or giant size, or the presence of intra-aneurysmal thrombus. The flexibility of the Pipeline Embolization Device allows it to be delivered and used in tortuous anatomy and because it is an “intravascular” as opposed to “intrasaccular” therapy, the device can be used to treat even thin walled aneurysms. In a trial known as the PITA trial, 31 patients at four study sites received the Pipeline Embolization Device for the treatment of difficult-to-treat intracranial aneurysms. All patients had either wide-necked saccular aneurysms or aneurysms that had failed to respond to previous endovascular coiling. The average aneurysm size was 11.5 mm, with an average neck width of 5.8 mm; thus, the study was predominantly one of large, wide-necked aneurysms. Overall, the device was delivered successfully in 100% of the cases, with a 6% rate of periprocedural complications (two strokes, no deaths). At 6-month follow-up, 28 of 30 lesions (93%) available for evaluation demonstrated complete angiographic occlusion. PUFS and COCOA are two clinical studies we are currently conducting under IDEs from the FDA. These studies are investigating the use of the Pipeline Embolization Device in the treatment of uncoilable aneurysm and coilable aneurysm, respectively. We expect to submit the results of the PUFS study to the FDA in first quarter of 2010. Outside of these clinical studies, there is commercial use of the Pipeline Embolization Device in our international markets as well as compassionate use cases within the United States. Liquid Embolics We estimate that liquid embolics were used in approximately 15,000 worldwide neurovascular procedures in 2009, including the majority of AVM and some aneurysm procedures. One embolization technique for AVMs involves the injection of acrylic-based glue. We believe, however, that glues have multiple drawbacks including the lack of controlled delivery and extreme adhesion to all surfaces, including that of the delivery catheter. Glue solidifies upon contact with blood which reduces physician control during filling and necessitates very rapid withdrawal of the delivery catheter in order to avoid it being permanently glued in place. We believe our Onyx Liquid Embolic System is a superior solution to glue. Onyx Liquid Embolic System. Onyx is our proprietary biocompatible copolymer which is delivered, in liquid form, through proprietary microcatheters to blood vessels in the brain, where it fills a vascular defect and transforms into a solid polymer cast. Onyx offers a unique form, fill and seal approach to the interventional treatment of aneurysms and AVMs associated with hemorrhagic stroke. Because Onyx is non-adhesive, and solidifies over a few minutes’ time, the injection and filling of the vascular defect can take place in a very controlled manner. When the vascular defect is completely filled with the Onyx polymer cast, the delivery catheter is removed. We believe our randomized clinical trial revealed that Onyx was at least as effective as acrylic-based glue in filling aneurysms, had a better percentage reduction in AVMs and resulted in the use of fewer coils. In addition to providing a controlled and measured delivery, other benefits of Onyx include the soft malleable cast for ease of surgical resection and enhanced radiopacity for bright visualization of material. In April of 2007, we received Humanitarian Device Exemption, or HDE, approval from the FDA for our Onyx HD 500 Liquid Embolic System for the treatment of intracranial aneurysms. This approval allows us to commercialize our Onyx Liquid Embolic System to a population of patients with wide-necked cerebral aneurysms. The approval is limited to saccular, sidewall aneurysms with a dome to neck ratio less than 2 millimeters that are not amenable to treatment with surgical clipping. 17 Table of Contents Flow Directed and Other Micro Catheters We market several micro catheters that are intended to allow access to, and treatment in, difficult-to-reach anatomical locations such as the remote vessels in the brain or other challenging vascular structures. In addition to their use with our embolic coils and liquid embolics, these products are compatible with, and are often used with, our competitors’ products. UltraFlow and Marathon Flow Directed Micro Catheters. The UltraFlow Flow Directed Micro Catheter and Marathon Flow Directed Micro Catheter are intended to access the peripheral and neuro vasculature for the controlled selective infusion of physician-specified therapeutic agents, such as embolization materials and of diagnostic materials, such as contrast media. The UltraFlow micro catheter is specifically designed to enable access to distal locations and to allow super-selective vessel positioning. The Marathon is an improved flow directed micro catheter that contains both a nitinol braid and a stainless steel helical wire, which improves navigability while retaining pushability and tip softness. We believe that both the UltraFlow and Marathon micro catheters provide excellent trackability over a wire. Echelon and Pre-shaped Echelon Micro Catheters. Using a unique blend of materials and construction, our Echelon family of over-the-wire micro catheters provide what we believe to be one of the largest inner channels in its class while still enabling the physician to access difficult anatomy and deliver a wide range of coils. The pre-shaped Echelon catheter represents a key line extension for our Echelon family of products, and offers improved navigation, deliverability and stability. Other Micro Catheters. We also market several other micro catheters, including the Rebar Reinforced Micro Catheter which is designed to deliver a wide variety of pharmacologic, diagnostic and therapeutic agents, including detachable coils and the Onyx Liquid Embolic System, and the Nautica Micro Catheter, which is an over-the-wire micro catheter designed to deliver detachable coils. In addition, we have recently developed the Apollo microcatheter. This unique microcatheter is specially designed with a detachable tip for the delivery of the Onyx Liquid Embolic System. Occlusion Balloon Systems HyperForm and HyperGlide Occlusion Balloon Systems. Our HyperForm and HyperGlide Occlusion Balloon families are highly flexible balloons designed for use in blood vessels where temporary occlusion is desired. They are useful in selectively stopping or controlling blood flow, and are capable of accessing small diameter and tortuous vessels. Accordingly, they may be used to control blood flow to remote sites to allow for embolization treatment of vascular abnormalities such as aneurysms. Guidewires Hydrophilic Guidewires. Our portfolio of neurovascular guidewires includes the Mirage Hydrophilic Guidewire. This guidewire is designed for precise torque control and is compatible with several sizes of flow-directed and over-the-wire micro catheters. It assists the physician in micro catheter navigation and remote vessel access while providing a flexible and shapeable tip. Its durable coating allows it to glide through tortuous vasculature. Other hydrophilic guidewires include the SilverSpeed, Meridian, X-Pedion and the X-Celerator. Neuro Stents Solitaire AB Neck Bridging Device. Stenting is of increasing importance in the aneurysm and ischemic stroke markets. The Solitaire is a self-expanding nitinol stent, for use in bridging the neck of aneurysms to facilitate more secure coil placement. The Solitaire AB device is fully retrievable before detachment, allowing for more precise placement and if required, replacement of the stent is possible. Solitaire AB is available in our international markets. Solitaire FR Revascularization Device. In July of 2009, we received a CE mark for the neurovascular use of the Solitaire FR Revascularization Device. We have initiated commercialization of the Solitaire platform outside the United States. Solitaire FR is used to immediately restore blood flow and assist in the removal of clot burden and 18 Table of Contents with intracranial stenotic disease where vessels within the brain become narrowed. Solitaire FR products are fully retrievable, allowing for more precise placement and if required, replacement of the stent is possible. Retrieval Devices Endovascular retrieval devices are used in intravascular foreign body retrieval procedures. Examples of foreign objects that require retrieval include misplaced coils, broken catheter or guidewire tips, as well as stents that are dislodged from their delivery system and carried downstream. Alligator Retrieval Device. Our Alligator Retrieval Device is a dedicated microforceps which allows intravascular access and retrieval of foreign objects. The Alligator Retrieval Device consists of four small microprecision grasping arms mounted on a flexible microguidewire and is used with a standard 0.21 mm microcatheter. Once the system is advanced adjacent to the foreign body, the microguidewire is held in place and its atraumatic gripping arms are deployed by withdrawing the microcatheter. The Alligator Retrieval Device has been specifically designed and indicated for use in the peripheral and neurovasculature for foreign body retrieval. Sales, Marketing and Distribution Structure and Strategy We have dedicated substantial resources to establish a direct sales capability in the United States, Canada, Europe, Australia and other countries as well as establishing distribution networks in selected international markets. We believe our global presence enables us to embrace and capitalize on the growing market for endovascular devices that exists outside of the United States. In addition, our global strategy allows us to commercialize technologies internationally while pursuing regulatory approval in the United States, increasing near-term sales and helping us refine our commercialization strategies in anticipation of product launches in the United States. Individuals in our sales organization generally have substantial medical device experience and are responsible for marketing our products directly to a variety of specialists engaged in endovascular therapies. Our direct sales representatives provided 84% and 86% of our net sales in 2009 and 2008, respectively, with the balance generated by independent distributors who represent us in certain international markets. As of December 31, 2009, our global endovascular marketing team was comprised of approximately 54 individuals covering product management, corporate communications and education and training. We devote significant resources to training and educating physicians in the use and benefits of our products. In the United States, we instruct our employees, including our sales professionals, not to discuss the use of our products outside of the FDA-approved indication. If unsolicited questions are posed by physicians, we inform them of the approved use of our products. Although we do not promote or market our products for off-label uses, physicians may choose to use our products as they see fit, including outside of the FDA-approved applications. For example, although our stent products are approved in the United States for use in the biliary duct, as are most competing peripheral stent systems in the United States, some physicians choose to use the stents in peripheral vessels. If the FDA concludes, however, that we promote our device for such off-label uses or that our promotional activities otherwise fail to comply with the FDA’s regulations or guidelines, we may be subject to warning letters from, or other enforcement action by, the FDA or the U.S. Department of Justice. United States As of December 31, 2009, we had 114 direct sales representatives selling our peripheral vascular products and 25 direct sales representatives selling our neurovascular products in the United States. Our U.S. sales force is organized by geographic sales territories, and each territory is managed by a district sales manager, or direct sales representative, who acts as the primary customer contact. Our regional sales managers supervise the district sales managers and also focus on maintaining key customer relationships. During 2009, we replaced several U.S. peripheral vascular territory and referral manager positions with several newly created SilverHawk specialist positions. As of December 31, 2009, we had 36 of the “Hawk Specialists”. 19 Table of Contents These “Hawk Specialists” partner with each of our regions to drive focused selling and clinical case support for our plaque excision business. In August of 2007, we were awarded three, three-year contracts by Novation, the health care contracting and services company of VHA Inc. and the University HealthSystem Consortium covering our peripheral interventional, thrombus management and neuro interventional products. In March of 2007, we were awarded a single-source, new technology agreement by Novation for our Onyx Liquid Embolic System. In January of 2009, we were awarded a one-year contract by Premier, a healthcare purchasing network, covering our self-expanding and balloon-expandable stent line. All of these group purchasing organization contracts are up for renewal during 2010. Europe, Canada and Australia Our direct selling organization in Europe has a presence in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. As of December 31, 2009, our European sales team had 67 direct sales representatives, including 38 selling our peripheral vascular products, 24 selling our neurovascular products and five selling both. We also sell our products in Canada and Australia through a four and one person direct sales force, respectively, as of December 31, 2009. Other International In the major markets of Asia Pacific, Latin America, Eastern Europe and the Middle East, we sell our products through distributors. In addition to sales, these distributors are involved in product launch planning, education and training, physician support and clinical trial management. Through dedicated distributors and several sales managers and support professionals, we have a sales presence in all major other international markets, including Brazil, Argentina, Singapore, Japan and China. Manufacturing We currently have a manufacturing facility located in Plymouth, Minnesota, at which we manufacture most of our peripheral vascular products, and a manufacturing facility located in Irvine, California, at which we manufacture most of our neurovascular products and a few of our peripheral vascular products. As a result of our acquisition of Chestnut, we also have a manufacturing facility in Menlo Park, California, where we manufacture our flow diversion and foreign retrieval neurovascular devices. In order to streamline our operations and improve efficiencies, we relocated the sales, manufacturing and research and development activities performed in our former Redwood City, California facility to our existing facilities located in Plymouth and Irvine. We manufacture our products at facilities in a controlled environment and have implemented quality control systems as part of our manufacturing processes. We believe we are in material compliance with FDA Quality System Regulations for medical devices, with ISO 9001 quality standards and applicable medical device directives promulgated by the European Union and Canada and ISO/EN 13485, which facilitates entry of our products into the European Union and Canada. The FDA and European Union competent authorities have recently inspected our manufacturing facilities and found no significant issues. We rely on independent manufacturers for certain product components and processes. On an ongoing basis, to improve yields and cycle times, we are investing in developing internal capabilities and applying lean manufacturing concepts at all of our manufacturing facilities. Research and Development Our research efforts are directed toward the development of new endovascular products that expand the therapeutic alternatives available to physicians, and improvements to and extensions of our existing product offerings. Our product development process incorporates teams organized around each of our core technologies, with each team having representatives from research and development, marketing, regulatory, quality, clinical affairs and manufacturing. Consultants are used when additional specialized expertise is required. 20 Table of Contents Our research and development team has a demonstrated record of new product initiatives and significant product improvements. Specific product improvement initiatives have included: • broadening acquired technologies in order to address a larger share of the target markets; • incorporating important features which we believe appeal to the physicians who use our products; and • leveraging core technologies to develop new product platforms and enter new markets. Our research and development expenditures were $49.1 million in 2009, compared with $48.8 million and $48.4 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our research and development costs include traditional research and development expenses as well as the cost of our clinical studies. Clinical Studies We support many of our new product initiatives with clinical studies in order to obtain regulatory approval and new indications and provide demonstrated medical evidence and best practices on our technologies. The goal of a clinical trial is to meet the primary endpoints, which measures the clinical effectiveness and safety of a device and is the basis for FDA or other regulatory approvals. Primary endpoints for clinical trials are selected based on the intended benefit of the medical device. Although clinical trial endpoints are measurements at an individual patient level, the results are extrapolated to an entire population of patients based on clinical similarities to patients in the clinical trials. We continually evaluate the potential financial benefits and costs of our clinical trials and the products being evaluated in them. If we determine that the costs associated with attaining regulatory approval of a product or new indication exceed the potential financial benefits of that product or new indication, or if the projected development timeline is inconsistent with our investment horizon, we may choose to stop a clinical trial and/or the development of a product. The following tables summarize our key current and planned clinical trials. Peripheral Stent Clinical Trials: Trial Product Study Design Status PROVE-IT (Global) EverFlex stent, Protégé GPS stent and Visi-Pro stent Prospective, multi-center, global study to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of primary stenting for the treatment of iliac lesions Enrollment anticipated to begin in the second half of 2010 Protocol currently under development DURABILITY II (Global) EverFlex Stent Prospective, multi-center, non-randomized study to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of the primary stenting compared to PTA performance goals for the treatment of SFA lesions Enrollment and follow-up continuing Primary safety endpoint of 30-day major adverse event Primary effectiveness endpoint of 12-month patency by duplex 21 Table of Contents Plaque Excision Clinical Trials: Trial Product Study Design Status DEFINITIVE Ca++ (U.S.) RockHawk and TurboHawk Peripheral Calcium Tip Plaque Excision System with SpiderFX Embolic Protection Device U.S. IDE, prospective, multi-center, non-randomized, single-arm study to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of the SilverHawk with Calcium Tip (i.e. RockHawk/TurboHawk) Plaque Excision System when used in conjunction with the SpiderFX Embolic Protection Device in the treatment of moderate to heavily calcified lesions in the femoropopliteal arteries Enrollment and follow-up continuing DEFINITIVE LE (Global) SilverHawk and TurboHawk Prospective, multi-center, non-randomized, single-arm study to evaluate the intermediate and long-term effectiveness of stand-alone SilverHawk/TurboHawk Plaque Excision Catheter for endovascular treatment of peripheral arterial disease in femoropopliteal or tibial-peroneal arteries. Enrollment and follow up continuing DEFINITIVE AR (Europe) SilverHawk, TurboHawk and drug coated balloon Treatment of femoropopliteal arteries Protocol currently under development Enrollment anticipated to begin in the second half of 2010 Carotid Clinical Trials: Trial Product Study Design Status CREATE PAS (U.S) Protégé GPS Stent with an ev3 Embolic Protection Device Prospective, multi-center single-arm confirmatory post-approval study Enrollment and follow-up continuing Primary endpoint of major adverse cardiovascular and cerebral event rate in broad use at investigative centers Neuro Clinical Trials: Trial Product Study Design Status SWIFT — Solitaire With the Intention For Thrombectomy Trial (U.S./Europe) Solitaire FR Stent U.S. IDE, prospective, randomized, 2-arm, multi-center study Enrollment anticipated to begin first quarter 2010 Goal: FDA approval 22 Table of Contents Trial Product Study Design Status RACER — Axium Post Market and Expanded Approvals Trial(U.S.) Axium Coil Prospective, single-arm, multi-center study Goal:Scientific clinical data for publications and possible outside the United States regulatory submissions Enrollment completed and follow-up continuing PUFS — Pipeline for Uncoilable or Failed Aneurysms (U.S.) Pipeline Embolization Device U.S. IDE, non-randomized, single-arm study using historical control Enrollment completed and follow-up continuing 6-mo safety (death and ipsilateral stroke) and effectiveness (complete occlusion —no recurrence) endpoints Goal: Pre-market approval for large aneurysms COCOA — Complete Occlusion of Coilable Aneurysms (U.S.) Pipeline Embolization Device U.S. IDE, prospective, randomized 2-arm study (Pipeline Embolization Device vs coils) Enrollment and follow-up continuing 6-mo safety (death and ipsilateral stroke) and effectiveness (complete occlusion —no recurrence) endpoints Goal: Pre-market approval for smaller aneurysms (<10 mm) Government Regulation United States Our products are regulated in the United States as medical devices by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. FDA regulations govern, among other things, the following activities that we perform: • product design, development and manufacture; • conduct of clinical trials; • product safety, testing, labeling and storage; • submission to FDA for pre-marketing clearance or approval; • record keeping procedures; • product marketing, sales and distribution; and • post-marketing surveillance, reporting of deaths or serious injuries and medical device reporting. 23 Table of Contents Unless an exemption applies, each medical device we wish to commercially distribute in the United States will require either prior 510(k) clearance or prior pre-market approval from the FDA. The FDA classifies medical devices into one of three classes, depending on the degree of risk associated with each medical device and the extent of controls that are needed to ensure safety and effectiveness. Devices deemed to pose the least risk are placed in Class I. Intermediate risk devices are placed in class II, which, in most instances, requires the manufacturer to submit to the FDA a pre-market notification requesting authorization for commercial distribution, known as “510(k) clearance.” A 510(k) clearance is provided when the device is deemed “substantially equivalent” to a predicate device, i.e. one that was previously cleared by the FDA. Class II 510(k) devices may be subjected to special controls such as performance standards, guidance documents specific to the device or post-market surveillance. Most Class I and some low-risk Class II devices are exempted from this 510(k) requirement. Class III devices are deemed by the FDA to pose the greatest risk, such as life-sustaining, life-supporting or implantable devices, or devices deemed to be not substantially equivalent to previously cleared 510(k) devices. In general, a Class III device cannot be marketed in the United States unless the FDA approves the device after submission of a pre-market approval application. 510(k) Clearance Pathway. When we are required to obtain 510(k) clearance for devices that we wish to market, we must submit a pre-market notification to the FDA demonstrating that the device is substantially equivalent to a previously cleared 510(k) device or a device that was in commercial distribution before May 28, 1976 (or to a pre-1976 class III device for which the FDA has not yet called for the submission of pre-market approval applications). In essence, the basic safety and effectiveness of the predicate device supports clearance of the new product. The 510(k) applicant is typically only required to demonstrate substantial equivalence to the predicate device. The FDA attempts to respond to a 510(k) pre-market notification within 90 days of submission of the notification, but the response may be a request for additional information or data, sometimes including clinical data. As a practical matter, pre-market clearance can take significantly longer than 90 days, including up to one year or more. After a device receives 510(k) clearance for a specific intended use, any modification that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, design or manufacture, will require a Special 510(k) clearance, a new 510(k) clearance, or could require pre-market approval. In addition, new “claims” not found in the cleared labeling for the device can be deemed a new intended use and can trigger the requirement for a new 510(k). The FDA requires each manufacturer to make its own determination whether a change requires a new submission, but the FDA can review and can disagree with a manufacturer’s determination. If the FDA disagrees with a manufacturer’s determination that a new clearance or approval is not required for a particular modification, the FDA can require the manufacturer to cease marketing and/or recall the modified device until 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval is obtained. Also, in these circumstances, the manufacturer may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties. The FDA recently has requested that the Institute of Medicine perform a study on whether legislative, regulatory or administrative changes are needed to the FDA’s 510(k) process. The Institute of Medicine report is due in 2011. The FDA also announced an internal working group to evaluate and improve the consistency of FDA decision making in the clearance process, and recently released an internal report in which FDA officials questioned the 510(k) process in general. Various committees of the U.S. Congress also have indicated that they may consider investigating the FDA’s 510(k) process. Pre-Market Approval Pathway. A pre-market approval, or PMA, application must be submitted if the device cannot be cleared through the 510(k) process. The PMA process is much more demanding than the 510(k) pre-market notification process. A PMA application must be supported by extensive data and information including, but not limited to, technical, pre-clinical, clinical, manufacturing and labeling, to establish to the FDA’s satisfaction the safety and effectiveness of the device. If the FDA determines that a PMA application is complete, the FDA can accept the application and begin an in-depth review of the submitted information. The FDA, by statute and regulation, has 180 days to review an accepted PMA application, although the review generally occurs over a significantly longer period of time, and can take up to several years. During this review period, the FDA may request additional information or clarification of information already provided. Also during the review period, an advisory panel of experts from outside the FDA may be convened to review and evaluate the application and provide recommendations to the FDA as to the approvability of 24 Table of Contents the device. In addition, the FDA will typically conduct a pre-approval inspection of the manufacturing facility to ensure compliance with the Quality System Regulations. New PMA applications or Supplemental PMA applications are required for significant modifications to the manufacturing process, labeling, use and design of a device that is approved through the PMA process. PMA Supplements often require submission of the same type of information as a pre-market approval, except that the supplement is limited to information needed to support any changes from the device covered by the original PMA application, and may not require as extensive clinical data or the convening of an advisory panel. Clinical Trials. A clinical trial is almost always required to support an original PMA application. Historically, clinical trials were infrequently required for a 510(k) clearance. Today, information from clinical trials is increasingly required to support 510(k) clearance. Clinical trials for a “significant risk” device require submission of an application for an investigational device exemption, or IDE, to the FDA. The IDE application must be supported by appropriate data, such as animal and laboratory testing results, showing that it is safe to test the device in humans and that the testing protocol is scientifically sound. Clinical trials for a significant risk device may begin once the application is approved by the FDA. In addition, the Institutional Review Board, or IRB, overseeing the clinical trial at each clinical site must approve the clinical study and an executed Investigator Agreement must be in place prior to patient enrollment at the site. If the product is deemed a “non-significant risk” device under FDA regulations, only the abbreviated IDE requirements apply. Clinical trials must be monitored by the study sponsor and are subject to extensive record keeping and reporting requirements. Clinical trials must be conducted in accordance with applicable regulations and policies including, but not limited to, the FDA’s good clinical practice, or GCP, requirements. For the protection of human subjects in a clinical trial, the FDA and IRB require patients to be informed of both the benefits and risks of the investigational device and the treatment and/or procedure. This is called “informed consent” and the subject must sign a written document stating that he or she understands the risks and consent to be involved in the trial. In addition, study subjects are protected by the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA. The study subject is asked to provide authorization to the clinical trial site and manufacturer so they can collect and use certain personally identifiable health information about the patient from the clinical trial for use in seeking FDA approval and any other specified uses outlined in the HIPAA authorization. The study sponsor, the FDA or the IRB at each site at which a clinical trial is being performed may suspend a clinical trial at any time for various reasons, including a belief that the risks to study subjects outweigh the anticipated benefits. The FDA may inspect a clinical investigation and, if it determines that the study sponsor failed to comply with the FDA regulations governing clinical investigations, it may issue a warning letter to or take other enforcement action against the study sponsor, the clinical investigation site or the principal investigator. There is always a risk that the results of clinical testing may not be sufficient to obtain approval of the product. De Novo Pathway. There is another pathway that may be used to market a medical device. This is called the “de novo” clearance which was established by the Food and Drug Administration Act of 1997, known as “FDAMA.” The de novo pathway is for products that do not qualify for 510(k) clearance because there is no predicate upon which to claim substantial equivalence. If the FDA, after reviewing a 510(k) application, sends a “not substantially equivalent” or “NSE” letter to a manufacturer, that manufacturer can request a de novo clearance. This is done by making the request in writing within 30 days of receipt of the NSE letter. The FDA then has 60 days to review the 510(k) application de novo and decide whether to clear the product. If the product is cleared via this pathway, the FDA publishes the clearance in the Federal Register and the cleared product receives a 510(k) and becomes a predicate for future products. If the product fails to be cleared by this pathway, it can only be approved via the PMA pathway. Humanitarian Device Exemptions. A Humanitarian Device Exemption, or HDE, authorizes the marketing of a humanitarian use device for a limited patient population. An HDE designation is based on the FDA’s determination that a device is intended for the treatment and diagnosis of a disease or condition that affects fewer than 4,000 individuals in the United States per year. Once an HDE designation has been obtained, an applicant may seek marketing approval under an HDE. While the HDE application is similar to a pre-market approval application and requires a demonstration of safety, unlike a pre-market approval application, an HDE does not require a demonstration of effectiveness. Certain limitations apply to the sale and use of devices under an HDE. 25 Table of Contents Post-Marketing Requirements. After a device is approved for marketing, numerous regulatory requirements apply, including: • Quality System Regulations, which require manufacturers to follow design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during the manufacturing process; • labeling, advertising and promotion regulations, which govern product labels and labeling, prohibit the promotion of products for unapproved or “off-label” uses and impose other restrictions on labeling and promotional activities; • medical device reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to the FDA if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur; and • notices of correction or removal, and recall regulations. The advertising and promotion of “restricted” devices, i.e. those requiring a prescription, are regulated by the FDA. The advertising and promotion of all other devices are regulated by the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, and by state regulatory and enforcement authorities. But the FDA often asserts itself in those situations as well because it has continuing authority over the labeling of a product that can be affected by the way it is advertised. Recently, some promotional activities for FDA-regulated products have been the subject of enforcement actions brought under health care reimbursement laws and consumer protection statutes. In addition, under the federal Lanham Act, competitors and others can initiate litigation relating to advertising claims. We have registered with the FDA as a medical device manufacturer. Compliance with regulatory requirements is tested through periodic, pre-scheduled or unannounced “for cause” facility inspections by the FDA and these inspections may include the manufacturing facilities of our subcontractors. “For cause” inspections are generally conducted when FDA suspects the manufacturer is in serious violations of current Good Manufacturing Practice regulations that have not been remedied. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in enforcement action by the FDA, which may include any of the following sanctions: • warning letters, fines, injunctions, and civil penalties; • repair, replacement, refund, recall or seizure of our products; • operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production; • refusing a request for 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval of new products; • withdrawing 510(k) clearance or pre-market approvals that are already granted; and • criminal prosecution. International We conduct sales and marketing activities in various foreign countries. Most major markets have different levels of regulatory requirements for medical devices. Modifications to the approved products often require a new regulatory submission in major markets. The regulatory requirements, and the review times, vary significantly from country to country. Our products also can be marketed in several other countries that have minimal requirements for medical devices. Frequently, we obtain regulatory approval for medical devices in foreign countries first because their regulatory approval is faster and simpler than the FDA. However, as a general matter, foreign regulatory requirements are becoming increasingly stringent. In the European Union, a single harmonized regulatory approval process has been created according to the New Approach regulations. Devices granted market access can be recognized by the European Conformance (CE) Mark, 26 Table of Contents under the European Medical Devices Directive, 93/42/EEC as amended 2007/47/EC. Medical devices for human use that receive CE designation in one Member State can be sold in all EU Member States. In the European Union, the European Community uses third parties called “notified bodies,” to review products for approval. They are private, independent third parties certified by the “competent authorities” (or Member State representative) to review and approve medical device applications and grant products labeled with the CE Mark to be sold in the European Union. The competent authorities designate and accredit and otherwise oversee the notified bodies they accredit. To obtain a CE Mark in the European Union, defined products must meet minimum standards of safety and quality and then comply with one or more of a selection of conformity routes. The European Community has regulations similar to that of the FDA for pre-market review and approval of medical devices, clinical investigations, and adverse events. Certification of our quality system for product distribution in the European Union is performed by Société Générale de Surveillance (SGS), located in the United Kingdom. In China, medical devices must be approved by the China State Food and Drug Administration (SFDA) prior to importation and commercial sale. In addition, medical devices must be approved in the country of origin before the registration process can begin in China and as such we must first obtain FDA approval before applying for market approval in China. China requires sample product testing at SFDA Accredited Laboratories for most products. Fees and testing requirements depend on the risk category of the device being registered. Initial registration of medical devices takes approximately 18 to 24 months to obtain marketing approval. Licenses are issued in the name of the device manufacturer for a period of four years. A local after-sale service provider must be located in China and is designated in the registration process. After the device is registered with the health authorities, manufacturers can sell product through multiple distributors. Medical devices imported into China must be labeled in Chinese and include the registration number, product features and the scope of usage for the product. New regulations went into effect on December 30, 2008 which require medical device manufacturers and distributors to include the device shelf life duration on the product labeling as well as adverse event reporting to Chinese authorities. The new regulation has tight reporting deadlines and does not follow the Global Harmonization Task Force recommendations for reporting adverse events. In addition, the Chinese Government has recently suggested that they will require clinical data collected from clinical sites within China prior to approval of new medical devices. If these requirements go into effect, the approval cycle for the market release of new medical devices in China will be significantly increased. In Japan, medical devices must be approved prior to importation and commercial sale by the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare, or MHLW. Manufacturers of medical devices outside of Japan that do not operate through a Japanese entity are required to use a contractually bound in-country caretaker to submit an application for device approval to the MHLW. The MHLW evaluates each device for safety and efficacy. As part of the approval process, the MHLW may require that the product be tested in Japanese laboratories. The approval process ranges in length and certain medical devices may require a longer review period for approval. Once approved, the manufacturer may import the device into Japan for sale by the manufacturer’s contractually bound office, importer or distributor. After a device is approved for importation and commercial sale in Japan, the MHLW continues to monitor sales of approved products for compliance with labeling regulations, which prohibit promotion of devices for unapproved uses, and reporting regulations, which require reporting of product malfunctions, including serious injury or death caused by any approved device. In addition to MHLW oversight, the regulation of medical devices in Japan is also governed by the Japanese Pharmaceutical Affairs Law, or PAL. PAL was substantially revised in July of 2002, and the new provisions were implemented in stages through April of 2005. The revised law changes class categorizations of medical devices in relation to risk, introduces a third-party certification system, strengthens safety countermeasures for biologically derived products and reinforces safety countermeasures at the time of resale or rental. You should read the information set forth under “Item 1A. Risk Factors—Our products and our product development and marketing activities are subject to extensive regulation as a result of which we may not be able to obtain required regulatory approvals for our products in a cost-effective manner or at all, which could adversely affect our business and operating results.” 27 Table of Contents Fraud and Abuse Laws A variety of U.S. federal and state laws apply to the sale, marketing and promotion of medical devices that are paid for, directly or indirectly, by federal or state health care programs, such as Medicare, Medicaid and TRICARE. The restrictions imposed by these laws are in addition to those imposed by the FDA, FTC and corresponding state agencies. Some of these laws significantly restrict or prohibit certain types of sales, marketing and promotional activities by medical device manufacturers. Violation of these laws can result in significant criminal, civil and administrative penalties, including imprisonment of individuals, fines and penalties and exclusion or debarment from federal and state health care and other programs. The principal federal laws include: (1) the Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits offers to pay or receive remuneration of any kind for the purpose of inducing or rewarding referrals of items of services reimbursable by a federal healthcare program; (2) the False Claims Act, which prohibits the submission of false or otherwise improper claims for payment to a federally-funded health care program; (3) the Stark law, which prohibits physicians from referring Medicare or Medicaid patients to an entity for the provision of certain designated health services if the physician (or a member of the physician’s immediate family) has a financial relationship with that entity, and (4) HIPAA, which prohibits knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any health care benefit program, including private payors, and falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for health care benefits, items or services. Privacy and Security HIPAA requires certain “covered entities” to comply with established standards regarding the privacy and security of protected health information, or PHI, and to use standardized code sets when conducting certain electronic transactions. HIPAA further requires that covered entities enter into agreements meeting certain regulatory requirements with their “business associates,” which effectively obligate the business associates to safeguard the covered entity’s protected health information against improper use and disclosure. While not directly regulated by HIPAA, a business associate may face significant contractual liability pursuant to such an agreement if the business associate breaches the agreement or causes the covered entity to fail to comply with HIPAA. The company often has possession of PHI in situations such as where clinical studies are conducted or sales representatives are asked by a surgeon to be in a surgical suite to provide technical advice on a device during surgery. HIPAA does not require a business associate agreement to be signed in these circumstances. In the course of our business operations, we may become the business associate of one or more covered entities. Accordingly, we may incur compliance related costs in meeting HIPAA-related obligations under business associates agreements to which we become a party. The European Union has its own privacy standards to which we are subject. Recognizing that our business continues to expand internationally, we intend to review our compliance with these standards and update or enhance our procedures and practices. Third Party Reimbursement In the United States, as well as in foreign countries, government-funded or private insurance programs, commonly known as third-party payors, pay the cost of a significant portion of a patient’s medical expenses. A uniform policy of reimbursement does not exist among all these payors. Therefore, reimbursement can be quite different from payor to payor. We believe that reimbursement is an important factor in the success of any medical device. Consequently, we seek to obtain reimbursement for all of our products. Reimbursement in the United States depends on our ability to obtain FDA clearances and approvals to market these products. Reimbursement also depends on our ability to demonstrate the short-term and long-term clinical and cost-effectiveness of our products from the results we obtain from clinical experience and formal clinical trials. We present these results at major scientific and medical meetings and publish them in respected, peer-reviewed medical journals. 28 Table of Contents The United States Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, sets reimbursement policy for the Medicare program in the United States. CMS policies may alter coverage and payment for vascular device technologies in the future. These changes may occur as the result of National Coverage Decisions issued by CMS headquarters or as the result of local or regional coverage decisions by contractors under contract with CMS to review and make coverage and payment decisions. This administration has a national coverage policy, which provides for the diagnosis and treatment of vascular disease in Medicare beneficiaries. All third-party reimbursement programs, whether government funded or insured commercially, whether inside the United States or outside, are developing increasingly sophisticated methods of controlling health care costs through prospective reimbursement and capitation programs, group purchasing, redesign of benefits, second opinions required prior to major surgery, careful review of bills and exploration of more cost-effective methods of delivering health care. These types of programs and legislative changes to reimbursement policies could potentially limit the amount which health care providers may be willing to pay for medical devices. International Trade The sale and shipment of our products and services across international borders, as well as the purchase of components and products from international sources, subject us to extensive governmental trade regulations. A variety of laws and regulations, both in the United States and in the countries in which we transact business, apply to the sale, shipment and provision of goods, services and technology across international borders, which include import and export laws and regulations, anti-boycott laws and anti-bribery laws. Because we are subject to extensive regulations in the countries in which we operate, we are subject to the risk that laws and regulations could change in a way that would expose us to additional costs, penalties or liabilities. Environmental We are subject to various environmental health and safety laws, directives and regulations both in the U.S. and abroad. Our operations, like those of other medical device companies, involve the use of substances regulated under environmental laws, primarily in manufacturing and sterilization processes. We do not expect that compliance with environmental protection laws will have a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. Given the scope and nature of these laws, however, there can be no assurance that environmental laws will not have a material impact on our results of operations. Our leased Redwood City facility sits on property formerly occupied by Rohm & Haas and Occidental Chemical Company and contains residual contamination in soil and groundwater from these past industrial operations. Rohm & Haas and Occidental Chemical Company previously performed soil remediation on the property under the supervision of the California Regional Water Quality Control Board. Rohm & Haas has indemnified the owner of the facility and its tenants against costs associated with the residual contamination. Competition The markets in which we compete are highly competitive, subject to change and impacted by new product introductions and other activities of industry participants. We compete primarily on the basis of our ability to treat vascular diseases and disorders safely and effectively. Our success can be impacted by the ease and predictability of product use, adequate third-party reimbursement, brand name recognition and cost. We believe we compete favorably with respect to these factors, although there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to do so in the future or that new products that perform better than those we offer will not be introduced. Because of the size of the peripheral vascular and neurovascular markets, competitors and potential competitors have historically dedicated and will continue to dedicate significant resources to aggressively promote their products and develop new and improved products. Our competitors range from small start-up companies to much larger companies. The larger companies with which we compete include Abbott Laboratories, Boston Scientific Corporation, Cook Incorporated, Cordis Corporation (a Johnson & Johnson company), Covidien Public Limited Company, C.R Bard Inc., Medtronic, Inc., Terumo/MicroVention, Inc. and W.L. Gore & Associates, Inc. All of these larger companies have substantially greater capital resources, larger customer bases, broader product lines, larger sales forces, greater marketing and management resources, larger research and development staffs and larger facilities than ours and have established 29 Table of Contents reputations and relationships with our target customers, as well as worldwide distribution channels that are more effective than ours. We also compete, however, and in some cases even more intensely, with smaller manufacturers. In the peripheral vascular market, we compete against, among others: MEDRAD, Inc., Cardiovascular Systems, Inc., Pathway Medical Technologies, Inc., Idev Technologies, Inc., Invatec s.r.l. (which recently agreed to be acquired by Medtronic) and Spectranetics Corporation. In the neurovascular market, we compete against, among others: Balt Extrusion, Inc. and Micrus Corporation. In addition, we compete with a number of drug therapy treatments manufactured by major pharmaceutical companies, including Otsuka Pharmaceutical, the manufacturer of Pletal, and Sanofi Aventis, the manufacturer of Plavix. Many of our physician customers like to experiment with new technologies. Within the plaque excision market, although we believe our SilverHawk plaque excision products compete favorably against other competing technologies, surgical procedures and pharmaceutical products, recently introduced atherectomy products have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect future sales of our plaque excision products, at least in the short term while physician customers experiment with such new products. Within the peripheral vascular stent market, we may experience increased competition from C. R. Bard Inc. which announced in 2009 that the FDA approved certain of its stents for use in the superficial femoral arteries and proximal popliteal arteries, if physicians decide to use C. R. Bard Inc.’s FDA cleared stents rather than our stents off-label. We believe our continued success depends on our ability to: • continue to innovate and maintain scientifically advanced technology, being responsive to the changing needs of our diverse customer base; • apply our technology across disease states, product lines and markets; • attract and retain skilled personnel; • obtain and maintain regulatory approvals; and • cost-effectively manufacture and successfully market our products. Employees As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately 1,350 employees worldwide. From time to time, we also employ independent contractors to support our operations. Intellectual Property Rights We believe that in order to maintain a competitive advantage in the marketplace, we must develop and maintain protection of the proprietary aspects of our technology. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, trade secret, copyright and other intellectual property rights and measures to aggressively protect our intellectual property that we consider important to our business. We have developed a patent portfolio internally, as well as through acquisitions, that cover many aspects of our product offerings. As of December 31, 2009, we had 498 issued patents and over 475 pending patent applications in the United States, Europe, Japan, Australia, Canada and other countries throughout the world. The expiration dates of our material patents range from 2010 to 2026. Additionally, we own or have rights to material trademarks or trade names that we use in conjunction with the sale of our products. We continue to invest in internal research and development of concepts and product ideas for the peripheral vascular and neurovascular markets. This, combined with our patent program, has increased the number of patentable concepts we generate. We also continually evaluate the potential financial benefits and costs of the development of our products and maintenance of our intellectual property rights. If we determine that the costs associated with developing our products and/or maintaining our intellectual property rights exceed the potential financial benefits of 30 Table of Contents that product or right, or if the projected development timeline is inconsistent with our investment horizon, we may choose to stop development of a product and sell the underlying intellectual property rights. We manufacture and market our products both under our own patents and under license agreements. While we believe that our patents are valuable, our knowledge and experience, our creative product development teams and marketing staff, and our confidential information regarding manufacturing processes, materials and product design have been equally important in maintaining our proprietary product offering. To protect that value, we have instituted policies and procedures, as well as a requirement that, as a condition of employment, all employees execute a confidentiality agreement relating to proprietary information and the assignment of intellectual property rights to us. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology. We seek to protect our trade secrets and proprietary know-how, in part, with confidentiality agreements with consultants, vendors and employees. Despite measures we have taken to protect our intellectual property, we cannot be certain that such measures will be successful or that unauthorized parties will not copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. In such instances, we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. These and other risks related to our intellectual property rights are described in more detail under “Item 1A. Risk Factors. We may be subject to intellectual property litigation and infringement claims, which could cause us to incur liabilities and costs, prevent us from selling our products, cause us to redesign our products, require us to enter into costly license agreements and result in other adverse consequences” and “Item 1A. Risk Factors—If our patents and other intellectual property rights do not adequately protect our products, we may lose market share to our competitors, which would harm our business.” Forward-Looking Statements This annual report on Form 10-K contains and incorporates by reference not only historical information, but also forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which are subject to the safe harbor created by those sections. In addition, we or others on our behalf may make forward-looking statements from time to time in oral presentations, including telephone conferences and/or web casts open to the public, in press releases or reports, on our Internet web site or otherwise. All statements other than statements of historical facts included in this report that address activities, events or developments that we expect, believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future are forward-looking statements including, in particular, the statements about our plans, objectives, strategies and prospects regarding, among other things, our financial condition, results of operations and business. We have identified some of these forward-looking statements with words like “believe,” “may,” “could,” “would,” “might,” “forecast,” “possible,” “potential,” “project,” “will,” “should,” “expect,” “intend,” “plan,” “predict,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “approximate” “outlook” or “continue” or the negative of these words or other words and terms of similar meaning or the use of future dates. These forward-looking statements may be contained in the notes to our consolidated financial statements and elsewhere in this report, including under the heading “Part II. Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. These uncertainties include factors that affect all businesses as well as matters specific to us. Some of the factors known to us that could cause our actual results to differ materially from what we have anticipated in our forward-looking statements are described under the heading “Item 1A. Risk Factors” below. We wish to caution readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statement that speaks only as of the date made and to recognize that forward-looking statements are predictions of future results, which may not occur as anticipated. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements and from historical results, due to the risks and uncertainties described under the heading “Item 1A. Risk Factors” below, as well as others that we may consider immaterial or do not anticipate at this time. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in our forward-looking statements are reasonable, we do not know whether our expectations will prove correct. Our expectations reflected in our forward-looking statements can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties, including those described below under the heading “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” The risks and uncertainties described under the heading “Item 1A. Risk 31 Table of Contents Factors” below are not exclusive and further information concerning us and our business, including factors that potentially could materially affect our financial results or condition, may emerge from time to time. We assume no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect actual results or changes in factors or assumptions affecting such forward-looking statements. We advise you, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K that we file with or furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Available Information ev3 LLC, our predecessor company prior to our initial public offering in June 2005, was formed in September 2003. Immediately prior to the consummation of our initial public offering in June 2005, ev3 LLC merged with and into ev3 Inc., at which time ev3 Inc. became the holding company for all of ev3 LLC’s subsidiaries. Our principal executive offices are located at 3033 Campus Drive, Plymouth, Minnesota 55441. Our telephone number is (763) 398-7000, and our Internet web site address is www.ev3.net. We are a Delaware corporation. The information contained on our web site or connected to our website is not incorporated by reference into and should not be considered part of this report. We make available, free of charge and through our Internet web site, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to any such reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. We also make available, free of charge and through our Internet web site under the Investors—Corporate Governance section, to any stockholder who requests, the charters of our board committees and our Code of Business Conduct. Requests for copies can be directed to Investor Relations at (949) 680-1375. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are significant factors known to us that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Despite our recent profitability, we have a history of net losses and no assurance can be provided that we will continue to remain profitable. We had net income of $41.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. We recognized net income in each of our last three quarters of 2009. Although we expect to be profitable for the year ending December 31, 2010, our quarterly results are subject to substantial fluctuations and no assurance can be provided that we will be profitable for each quarter of 2010 or achieve our goal of sustained profitability. Especially in light of the current economic conditions, it is difficult to predict our future financial performance and our failure to accurately predict future financial performance may lead to volatility in the price of our common stock. Our ability to achieve our goal of sustained profitable operations will be influenced by many factors, including the level and timing of future sales and expenditures, our ability to increase net sales and decrease costs, market acceptance of our products, the results and scope of ongoing research and development projects, the volatility of changes in contingent consideration, the effect of competing technologies, market and regulatory developments and the other risks described in this section. If we do not achieve sustained profitability within expected time frames, our business and stock price will be negatively impacted. Adverse worldwide economic conditions may continue to result in reduced procedures using our products, which would adversely affect our net sales. We believe the adverse worldwide economic conditions during the past 18 months or so have resulted and may continue to result in reduced procedures using our products. Many of the procedures that use our products are, to some extent, elective and therefore can be deferred by patients. In the face of adverse economic conditions, patients may not be as willing to take time off from work or spend their money on deductibles and co-payments often 32 Table of Contents required in connection with the procedures that use our products. In particular, patients that have high-deductible health plans and health savings accounts and thus require the patients to incur significant out-of-pocket costs are especially more apt to defer procedures at times when cash is tight. Although the specific impact of worldwide economic conditions is difficult to measure and although we believe such conditions did not have a material adverse effect on our net sales for 2009, we are unable to predict whether continuing adverse economic conditions will impact our sales in 2010 or beyond. Adverse worldwide economic conditions may have other adverse implications on our business, operating results and financial condition. Beyond patient demand, adverse worldwide economic conditions, including in particular continuing tight credit and capital markets, may have other adverse implications on our business. For example, our customers’ and distributors’ ability to borrow money from their existing lenders or to obtain credit from other sources to purchase our products may be impaired resulting in a decrease in sales. Although we review our customers’ financial condition and ability to pay on an ongoing basis and we maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments and such losses have historically been within our expectations and the provisions established, we cannot guarantee that we will continue to experience the same loss rates that we have in the past. A significant change in the liquidity or financial condition of our customers or distributors could cause unfavorable trends in our receivable collections and additional allowances may be required, which could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, adverse worldwide economic conditions may adversely impact our suppliers’ ability to provide us with materials and components, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Finally, we believe adverse worldwide economic conditions have caused many of our hospital customers to demand purchasing our products on a consignment basis and thus purchase our products as they use them as opposed to purchasing large stocking orders from time to time. Selling products on consignment involves other risks. For example, in these consignment locations, we do not have physical possession of our products. We therefore must rely on information from our customers as well as periodic inspections by our sales personnel to determine when our products have been used. Our efforts to strengthen our monitoring and management of consigned inventory may not be adequate to meaningfully reduce the risk of inventory loss. If we are not able to effectively manage appropriate consigned inventory levels, we may suffer inventory losses which will reduce our operating results. Disruptions in the global financial markets could impact the ability of our counterparties and others to perform their obligations to us and our ability to obtain any additional future financing if needed or desired. Disruptions in the global financial markets, including the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the United States and other governments and the related liquidity crisis, considerably disrupted the credit and capital markets at the end of 2008 and have not fully recovered since then. Our credit risk consists of cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, lending commitments and insurance relationships in the ordinary course of business. We place cash and cash equivalents with high quality financial institutions, which we monitor regularly and take action where possible to mitigate risk. We do not hold investments in auction rate securities, mortgage backed securities, collateralized debt obligations, individual corporate bonds, special investment vehicles or any other investments which were directly impacted by the worldwide financial crisis. Our insurance programs are with carriers that remain highly rated and we have no significant pending claims. However, future disruptions in the credit and capital markets could cause our counterparties and others to breach their obligations or commitments to us under our contracts with them. To date, our credit arrangement with Silicon Valley Bank remains available to us. Although we do not anticipate requiring any additional financing in the near future, in the event we needed or desired such additional financing, we may be unable to obtain it by borrowing money in the credit markets and/or raising money in the capital markets. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be significantly and adversely affected if certain types of healthcare reform programs are adopted in our key markets and other administration and legislative proposals are enacted into law. Recently, President Obama and members of Congress have proposed significant reforms to the U.S. healthcare system. Both the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives have conducted hearings about healthcare reform. The 33 Table of Contents Obama administration’s fiscal year 2010 budget included proposals to limit Medicare payments, reduce drug spending and increase taxes. In addition, members of Congress have proposed a single-payer healthcare system, a government health insurance option to compete with private plans and other expanded public healthcare measures, including an excise tax on all medical devices that could require the medical device industry to contribute over $2 billion to healthcare reform each year. Various healthcare reform proposals also have emerged at the state level. We cannot predict what healthcare initiatives, if any, will be implemented at the federal or state level, or the effect any future legislation or regulation will have on us. However, an expansion in government’s role in the U.S. healthcare industry may lower reimbursements for our products, reduce medical procedure volumes and adversely affect our business and results of operations, possibly materially. In addition, if an excise tax on medical devices is enacted into law, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Our marketing activities are subject to regulation regarding the promotion of “off-label” uses, which restrict our ability to market our products. If we are found to have improperly promoted off-label use of our products, we may become subject to enforcement action by the FDA or the U.S. Department of Justice and/or incur significant liabilities. Any off-label use of our products also may result in injuries that could lead to product liability claims against us. We sell a number of our products to physicians who may elect to use the products in ways that are not within the scope of the approval or clearance given by the FDA or for other than FDA-approved indications, often referred to as “off-label” use. For example, although our SilverHawk Plaque Excision System received FDA clearance for the treatment of atherosclerosis in the peripheral vasculature, off-label use of our SilverHawk outside the peripheral vasculature, in coronary and carotid arteries, has occurred, as well as off-label use of the SilverHawk for treatment of in-stent restenosis. In addition, although most of our stents received FDA clearance for the palliative treatment of malignant neoplasms in the biliary tree, off-label use of our stents occurs regularly in the peripheral arteries for the treatment of peripheral artery disease. In fact, most of our U.S. stent sales are attributable to off-label use. While off-label uses of medical devices are common and the FDA does not regulate physicians’ choice of treatments, the FDA does restrict a manufacturer’s communications regarding such off-label use. Such laws and regulations prohibiting the promotion of products for off-label use restrict our ability to market our products. Although we have strict policies against the unlawful promotion of products for off-label use and we train our employees on these policies, it is possible that one or more of our employees will not follow the policies, or that regulations would change in a way that may hinder our ability to sell such products or make it more costly to do so, which could expose us to enforcement action by the FDA and the potential loss of approval to market and sell the affected products and/or significant financial and other penalties and liabilities. The FDA and other regulatory agencies actively enforce regulations prohibiting promotion of off-label uses and the promotion of products for which marketing clearance has not been obtained. During a March of 2007 meeting, the FDA warned device makers, including us, about promoting biliary stents for off-label uses. It is our understanding that certain biliary stent manufacturers, including some at the March 2007 FDA meeting, have since become involved in civil investigations by the U.S. Department of Justice alleging that they have improperly promoted their biliary stents for off-label uses. Although we have received no notice of any such investigation involving the sales practices of our biliary stents, no assurance can be provided that we will not become the subject of such an investigation, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and stock price. It is also possible that our company or board of directors could become subject to civil litigation or breach of fiduciary duty claims alleging that we improperly promoted off-label use of our products, which in turn improperly inflated our historical net sales. Off-label use of our products may not be safe or effective and may result in unfavorable outcomes to patients, resulting in potential liability to us. For example, the use or misuse of the SilverHawk in the peripheral and coronary arteries has resulted in complications, including damage to the treated artery, internal bleeding, limb loss and death, potentially leading to a product liability claim. In addition, the use or misuse of our biliary stents in the peripheral arteries to treat peripheral artery disease has resulted in complications, potentially leading to a product liability claim. A third-party study published in 2008 found that off-label use of biliary stents was increasing and that the majority of adverse events and device malfunctions associated with the use of such stents occurs during off-label usage. 34 Table of Contents If we want to market any of our products in the U.S. for uses in ways for which they are not currently approved or cleared, we will need to obtain approval or clearance from the FDA and in most cases conduct additional clinical trials to support such approvals and clearances. Such trials are often time-consuming and costly. Although we continue to enroll patients for our DEFINITIVE Ca++ trial to support an FDA application to use our RockHawk/TurboHawk and SpiderFX in the treatment of lower extremity (SFA/Popliteal) calcified lesions and intend to conduct other clinical trials to expand the indication of use of our RockHawk/TurboHawk, no assurance can be provided that the results of these trials will adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the SilverHawk for use in those expanded indications. In addition, although we continue to enroll patients for our DURABILITY II IDE trial to support an FDA application to use our EverFlex stent in long lesions in the superficial femoral artery, no assurance can be provided that the results of this trial will adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our EverFlex stent for use in the peripheral arteries. In 2009, C. R. Bard Inc. announced that the FDA cleared certain of its stents for use in the superficial femoral arteries and proximal popliteal arteries. It is possible that physicians have decided to use and may continue to decide to use C. R. Bard Inc.’s FDA cleared stents rather than our stents off-label, which would harm sales of our stents. It is also possible that governmental or private health care payors could limit reimbursement for products used off-label, in which case, sales of our products and our business would be materially adversely affected. Since a significant portion of our sales are derived from products that physicians in the past have elected to use and may continue to elect to use “off-label,” ultimately, if physicians cease or lessen their use of our products for other than FDA-approved indications, sales of our products likely would decline, which could materially adversely affect our net sales and operating results. In addition, if we are perceived not to be in compliance with all of the restrictions limiting the promotion of our products for off-label use, we could be subject to various enforcement measures, including investigations, administrative proceedings and federal and state court litigation, which likely would be costly to defend and harmful to our business. If the FDA or another governmental authority ultimately concludes we are not in compliance with such restrictions, we could be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies, injunctions against sales for off-label uses, significant monetary and punitive penalties and criminal sanctions, any or all of which would be harmful to our business. Our business strategy relies on assumptions about the market for our products, which, if incorrect, would adversely affect our business and operating results. We are focused on the market for endovascular devices used to treat vascular diseases and disorders. We believe that the aging of the general population and inactive lifestyles will continue and that these trends will increase the need for our products. However, the projected demand for our products could materially differ from actual demand if our assumptions regarding these trends and acceptance of our products by the medical community prove to be incorrect or do not materialize or if drug therapies gain more widespread acceptance as a viable alternative treatment, which in each case, would adversely affect our business and operating results. If we fail to comply with laws prohibiting “kickbacks” and false or fraudulent claims and other similar laws, we could be subject to criminal and civil penalties and exclusion from governmental health care programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We are subject to various federal, state and foreign laws concerning health care fraud and abuse, including false claims laws, anti-kickback laws, physician self-referral laws and other similar laws. Many of these laws constrain the sales, marketing and other promotional activities of manufacturers of medical devices by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements, including sales programs, with physicians, hospitals, laboratories and other potential purchasers of medical devices. The scope of these laws and related regulations are very broad and many of their provisions have not been uniformly or definitively interpreted by existing case law or regulations, and thus are subject to evolving interpretations. There is very little precedent related to these laws and regulations. All of our financial relationships with health care providers and others who provide products or services to federal health care program beneficiaries are potentially governed by these laws. While we have established policies and procedures based on the AdvaMed Code of Ethics on Interactions with Health Care Professionals and implemented a broad-based corporate compliance program in order to inform our employees regarding these laws and maintain compliance with them, no assurance can be given that we will not be subject to investigations or litigation alleging violations of these laws. Increased funding for enforcement of these laws and regulations has resulted in greater scrutiny of financial relationships with physicians and marketing practices and resulted in several governmental 35 Table of Contents investigations by various governmental authorities, including investigations of the sales practices of several of our competitors. Any investigation or litigation against us, even if we were to successfully defend against it, would likely be time-consuming and costly for us to defend. It also would likely divert the attention of our management from the operation of our business, cause adverse publicity and damage our reputation. If our arrangements were found to have violated any of these laws, we and our officers and employees could be subject to severe criminal and/or civil penalties, including fines, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in government health care programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business and operating results. Similarly, if the physicians or other providers or entities with which we do business are found to be non-compliant with such laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which also could have a negative impact on us. Some of our products are emerging technologies or have only recently been introduced into the market. If physicians do not recommend and endorse them or if our working relationships with physicians deteriorate, our products may not be accepted in the marketplace, which would adversely affect our business and operating results. In order for us to sell our products, physicians must recommend and endorse them. We may not obtain the necessary recommendations or endorsements from physicians. Acceptance of our products depends on educating the medical community as to the distinctive characteristics, perceived benefits, safety, clinical efficacy and cost-effectiveness of our products compared to products of our competitors, and on training physicians in the proper application of our products. We often need to invest in significant training and education of our sales representatives or our physician customers to achieve market acceptance of our products with no assurance of success. For example, the future success of our plaque excision products are dependent in part upon us educating first our sales representatives and second, physicians, and in particular interventional cardiologists, vascular surgeons, as well as general practitioners and other physicians, about screening for peripheral artery disease, or PAD, referral opportunities and the benefits of our plaque excision products in relating to competitive products and other treatment options. As another example, the future success of our Pipeline Embolization Device is also dependent in part upon us educating our sales organization and physician customers regarding the advantages of flow diversion and our Pipeline product in particular in treating wide-necked aneurysms. If we are not successful in obtaining the recommendations or endorsements of physicians for our products, if customers prefer our competitors’ products or if our products otherwise do not gain market acceptance, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, if we fail to maintain our working relationships with physicians, many of our products may not be developed and marketed consistent with the needs and expectations of professionals who use and support our products. We rely on these professionals to provide us with considerable knowledge and experience regarding our products and the marketing of our products. If we are unable to maintain these strong relationships with these professionals and continue to receive their advice and input, the development and marketing of our products could suffer, which could adversely affect the acceptance of our products in the marketplace and our operating results. At the same time, we recognize and are careful to ensure that our relationships with physicians comply with applicable fraud and abuse and other laws and regulations and our Code of Ethics on Interactions with Health Care Professionals, which is based on the AdvaMed Code of Ethics on Interactions with Health Care Professionals. We acquired Chestnut Medical Technologies, Inc. primarily for its Pipeline Embolization Device. If the Pipeline Embolization Device cannot be shown to be safe and effective in clinical trials, is not approvable or not commercially successful, or if we do not receive the pre-market approval letter from the FDA for any reason, then the benefits of our acquisition of Chestnut may never be fully realized. In June of 2009, we acquired Chestnut primarily for its Pipeline Embolization Device, which is a new class of embolization device that is designed to divert blood flow away from an aneurysm in order to provide a complete and durable aneurysm embolization while maintaining patency of the parent vessel. The Pipeline Embolization Device has received CE Mark approval in Europe and we are currently conducting two clinical studies under FDA investigational device exemptions to gain approval for the Pipeline device in the United States. Under the terms of our agreement and plan of merger with Chestnut, we made an initial closing payment in the amount of approximately $75.0 million, approximately $26 million of which was paid in cash with the remaining approximately $49 million paid in shares of our common stock. In addition to the initial closing payment, we may be obligated to make an additional milestone payment of up to $75 million if the FDA issues a letter granting pre-market approval for the commercialization of the Pipeline Embolization Device in the United States pursuant to an 36 Table of Contents indication to treat intracranial aneurysms on or before December 31, 2012. If the Pipeline Embolization Device cannot be shown to be safe and effective in clinical trials, is not approvable or not commercially successful, or if we do not receive the pre-market approval letter from the FDA for any reason, then the benefits of our acquisition of Chestnut may never be fully realized. Demand for our plaque excision products in the United States has suffered due in part, we believe, to the lack of long-term clinical data regarding their safety and efficacy. Future long-term data regarding the safety and efficacy of our plaque excision products may not be positive or consistent with data currently available, which would adversely affect their market acceptance and our operating results. One of the primary reasons we completed our acquisition of FoxHollow Technologies, Inc. in October of 2007 was to add FoxHollow’s SilverHawk and other products to our broad spectrum of technologically advanced products to treat vascular disease in the peripheral market to allow us to offer a more comprehensive and better integrated set of endovascular products to our customers. At the time of the acquisition, we expected SilverHawk sales to represent a significant portion of our future net sales. However, we experienced decreased demand and sales of the SilverHawk compared to levels experienced by FoxHollow prior to our acquisition due in part to sales force integration challenges, elevated inventory levels of the product at some of our customers and increased competition. We also believe the decreased demand and sales was due in part to a lack of definitive long-term clinical data regarding the safety and efficacy of the SilverHawk. In 2008, we retained a third party research firm to help us examine our U.S. plaque excision business. The research firm conducted interviews with a significant number of physicians and sales force representatives and analyzed secondary data to understand factors driving the change in SilverHawk usage and plaque excision procedures. The results of this research confirmed our previously stated belief in the importance of investing in the necessary clinical trials to build the clinical foundation for the SilverHawk and capitalizing on our next generation technologies to expand clinical usage, particularly in treating calcified lesions, total occlusions and longer lesions. Based on this third party research and our own due diligence, we believe that future demand for our plaque excision products will not increase if physicians are not presented with compelling data from long-term studies of the safety and efficacy of our products compared against alternative procedures, such as angioplasty, stenting or bypass grafting and alternative technologies. As a result, we have commenced our DEFINITIVE trial series, which we expect to consist of three trials using our plaque excision products. We are currently enrolling patients into our DEFINITIVE Ca++ trial to evaluate RockHawk/TurboHawk and SpiderFX in the treatment of lower extremity (SFA/Popliteal) calcified lesions and our DEFINITIVE LE trial, which is a post-market non-randomized study of SilverHawk/TurboHawk in the treatment of femoropopliteal and tibial arteries. We anticipate commencing enrollment in our DEFINITIVE AR trial in the second half of 2010 to evaluate SilverHawk/TurboHawk in the treatment of femoropopliteal arteries. These studies will be expensive and time consuming and there are no assurances that the results will prove favorable for our plaque excision products. If the results do not meet physicians’ expectations, our plaque excision products may not become widely adopted and physicians may recommend alternative treatments for their patients. Other significant factors that physicians will consider include acute safety data on complications that occur during the SilverHawk procedure. If the results obtained from any future clinical studies or clinical or commercial experience indicate that the SilverHawk is not as safe or effective as other treatment options or as prior short-term or long-term data would suggest, market acceptance of the product may suffer and the number of SilverHawk procedures may decrease, which would harm our business. Even if the data collected from clinical studies or clinical experience indicate positive results, each physician’s actual experience with the SilverHawk may vary and may not be as favorable, which would also adversely affect the demand for our SilverHawk product. Other factors that may adversely affect the market acceptance of the SilverHawk include the time required to perform the procedure and the lack of on-board visualization capability. If we do not incorporate certain design improvements to the SilverHawk to respond to these and other physician preferences, we may be unable to generate new customers or retain our existing customers. However, we have limited funds dedicated to research and development; and therefore, we will not be able to pursue all of these suggested design changes. A decrease in SilverHawk procedures and any failure by us to generate additional demand for the SilverHawk will likely adversely affect our future net sales as well as our other operating results. 37 Table of Contents The demand for our products, the prices which customers and patients are willing to pay for our products and the number of procedures performed using our products depend upon the ability of our customers and patients to obtain sufficient third party reimbursement for their purchases of our products. Sales of our products depend in part on sufficient reimbursement by governmental and private health care payors to our physician customers or their patients for the purchase and use of our products. In the United States, health care providers that purchase our products generally rely on third-party payors, principally federal Medicare, state Medicaid and private health insurance plans, to pay for all or a portion of the cost of endovascular procedures. Reimbursement systems in international markets vary significantly by country, and by region within some countries, and reimbursement approvals must be obtained on a country-by-country basis and can take up to 18 months or longer. Many international markets have government-managed health care systems that govern reimbursement for new devices and procedures. In most markets, there are private insurance systems as well as government-managed systems. Additionally, some foreign reimbursement systems provide for limited payments in a given period and therefore result in extended payment periods. Any delays in obtaining, or an inability to obtain, reimbursement approvals or sufficient reimbursement for our products could significantly affect the acceptance of our products and have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, international sales of our plaque excision products and Pipeline Embolization Device may be hampered by delay in obtaining reimbursement. In addition, if the reimbursement policies of domestic or foreign governmental or private health care payors were to change, our customers likely would change their purchasing patterns and/or the frequency of their purchases of the affected products. Additionally, payors continue to review their coverage policies carefully for existing and new therapies and can, without notice, deny coverage for treatments that include the use of our products. Our business would be negatively impacted to the extent any such changes reduce reimbursement for our products. Healthcare costs have risen significantly over the past decade. There have been and may continue to be proposals by legislators, regulators and third-party payors to keep these costs down. The continuing efforts of governments, insurance companies and other payors of healthcare costs to contain or reduce these costs, combined with closer scrutiny of such costs, could lead to patients being unable to obtain approval for payment from these third-party payors. The cost containment measures that healthcare providers are instituting both in the United States and internationally could harm our business. Some health care providers in the United States have adopted or are considering a managed care system in which the providers contract to provide comprehensive health care for a fixed cost per person. Health care providers may attempt to control costs by authorizing fewer elective surgical procedures or by requiring the use of the least expensive devices possible, which could adversely affect the demand for our products or the price at which we can sell our products. We also sell a number of our products to physician customers who may elect to use these products in ways that are not within the scope of the approval or clearance given by the FDA, often referred to as “off-label” use. In the event that governmental or private health care payors limit reimbursement for products used off-label, sales of our products and our business would be materially adversely affected. Our stents and plaque excision products generate a significant portion of our product sales. Accordingly, if sales of these products were to decline, our operating results would be adversely affected. Our stents and plaque excision products generate a significant portion of our net sales. During 2009, our stents and plaque excision products generated approximately 26% and 19% of our product sales, respectively. A decline in sales from these products as a result of increased competition, regulatory matters, intellectual property matters or any other reason would negatively impact our operating results. Our products face the risk of technological obsolescence, which, if realized, could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. The medical device industry is characterized by extensive research and development and rapid and significant technological change. The peripheral vascular and neurovascular markets in which we compete are in particular highly competitive and new technologies and products are often introduced. Therefore, product life cycles are relatively short. Developments by us and other companies of new or improved products, processes or technologies may make our products or proposed products obsolete or less competitive and may negatively impact our net sales or cause us to incur significant charges or write-offs. For example, new procedures and medications that are more 38 Table of Contents effective or less invasive or expensive could be developed that replace or reduce the importance of current procedures that use our products or our future products or may cause our customers to cease, delay or defer purchasing our products, which would adversely affect our business and operating results. As another example, it is possible that our recently acquired Pipeline Embolization Device could, over time, have an adverse effect on sales of our neurovascular coils. Our future success depends in part on the introduction of new products. Failure to introduce and market new products in a timely fashion that are accepted by the marketplace could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our success depends in part upon our ability to respond quickly to medical and technological changes through the development or acquisition and introduction of new products. If we do not introduce new products and technologies, or if our new products and technologies are not accepted by the physicians who use them or the payors who reimburse the costs of the procedures performed with them, or if there are any delays in our introduction of new products, we may not be successful and our business and operating results would suffer. Accordingly, we must devote substantial efforts and financial resources to develop or acquire scientifically advanced technologies and products, obtain patent and other protection for our technologies and products, obtain required regulatory and reimbursement approvals and successfully manufacture and market our products. For example, in June of 2009, we acquired Chestnut and paid $75.0 million up front and agreed to pay an additional $75.0 million milestone payment if the FDA issues a letter granting pre-market approval for the commercialization of the Pipeline Embolization Device in the United States pursuant to an indication to treat intracranial aneurysms on or before December 31, 2012. We cannot assure you that the Pipeline Embolization Device will obtain regulatory approval or will be accepted by the marketplace, which if not would adversely affect our business and operating results. We plan to introduce additional products during 2010 which we expect to result in additional net sales. We may experience delays in any phase of a product launch, including during research and development, clinical trials, regulatory approvals, manufacturing, marketing and the education process. The relative speed with which we can develop or acquire products, complete clinical testing and regulatory clearance or approval processes, train physicians in the use of our products, gain reimbursement acceptance and supply commercial quantities of the products to the market are important competitive factors. Any delays could result in a loss of market acceptance and market share. Product development involves a high degree of risk, and we cannot provide assurance that our product development efforts will result in any commercially successful products. Many of our clinical trials have durations of several years and it is possible that such trials may not be successful or that competing therapies, such as drug therapies, may be introduced while our products are still undergoing clinical trials. New products and technologies introduced by competitors may reach the market earlier, may be more effective or less invasive or expensive than our products or render our products obsolete, all of which would harm our business and operating results. A number of our proposed products are in the early stages of development and some are in clinical trials. If the development of these products is not successfully completed or if these trials are unsuccessful, or if the FDA or other regulatory agencies require additional trials to be conducted, these products may not be commercialized and our business prospects may suffer. Several of our products are in the early stages of development. Some only recently emerged from clinical trials and others have not yet reached the clinical trial stage. Our ability to market our products in the United States and abroad depends upon our ability to demonstrate the safety, and in the case of the United States, efficacy, of our products with clinical data to support our requests for regulatory approval. Our products may not be found to be safe and, where required, effective in clinical trials and may not ultimately be approved for marketing by U.S. or foreign regulatory authorities. Our failure to develop safe and effective products that are approved for sale on a timely basis would have a negative impact on our net sales. Our current and anticipated trials for 2010 include the PROVE-IT (U.S.), CREATE Post Approval Study (U.S.), DURABILITY II Trial (U.S.), the DEFINITIVE Ca++ Trial (U.S.), the DEFINITIVE LE Trial (U.S), the DEFINITIVE AR Trial (Europe), the SWIFT Trial (U.S.) and the RACER Trial (U.S.). In addition, as a result of our acquisition of Chestnut, we are currently conducting two clinical studies in the U.S., PUFS and COCOA, under 39 Table of Contents Investigational Device Exemptions from the FDA investigating the use of Chestnut’s Pipeline Embolization Device in the treatment of uncoilable aneurysms and coilable aneurysms, respectively. There is no assurance that we will be successful in achieving the endpoints in these trials or, if we do, that the FDA or other regulatory agencies will approve the devices for sale without the need for additional clinical trial data to demonstrate safety and efficacy. Some of the products for which we are currently conducting trials are already approved for sale outside of the United States. As a result, while our trials are ongoing, unfavorable data may arise in connection with usage of our products outside the United States which could adversely impact the approval of such products in the United States. Conversely, unfavorable data from clinical trials in the United States may adversely impact sales of our products outside of the United States. We continually evaluate the potential financial benefits and costs of clinical trials and the products being evaluated in them. If we determine that the costs associated with obtaining regulatory approval of a product exceed the potential financial benefits of that product or if the projected development timeline is inconsistent with our investment horizon, we may choose to stop a clinical trial and/or the development of a product, which could result in a decrease in our stock price if investors are disappointed in our decision. Our future success depends in part on our ability to sell our products internationally. There are risks inherent in operating internationally and selling and shipping our products and purchasing our components internationally, which may adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. One of our strategic objectives is to leverage our strong international presence to increase sales of our products, including in particular the Pipeline Embolization Device that we recently acquired from Chestnut and our plaque excision products that we acquired from FoxHollow. For the year ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, 40% and 35%, respectively, of our net sales were derived from our international operations. We expect to continue to derive a significant portion of our net sales from operations in international markets. Our international distribution system consisted of 10 direct sales offices and 56 stocking distribution partners as of December 31, 2009. In addition, we purchase some of our components and products from international suppliers. The sale and shipping of our products and services across international borders, as well as the purchase of components and products from international sources, subject us to extensive U.S. and foreign governmental trade regulations. Compliance with such regulations is costly and exposes us to penalties for non-compliance. Other laws and regulations that can significantly impact us include various anti-bribery laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, laws restricting business with suspected terrorists and anti-boycott laws. Any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could impact us in a variety of ways that include, but are not limited to, significant criminal, civil and administrative penalties, including imprisonment of individuals, fines and penalties, denial of export privileges, seizure of shipments, restrictions on certain business activities, and exclusion or debarment from government contracting. Also, the failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could result in the disruption of our shipping and sales activities. In addition, many of the countries in which we sell our products are, to some degree, subject to political, economic and/or social instability. Our international sales operations expose us and our representatives, agents and distributors to risks inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions. These risks include: • the imposition of additional U.S. and foreign governmental controls or regulations; • the imposition of costly and lengthy new export licensing requirements; • the imposition of U.S. and/or international sanctions against a country, company, person or entity with whom the company does business that would restrict or prohibit continued business with the sanctioned country, company, person or entity; • a shortage of high-quality sales people and distributors; • loss of any key personnel that possess proprietary knowledge, or who are otherwise important to our success in certain international markets; 40 Table of Contents • the imposition of different reimbursement requirements and changes in reimbursement policies that may require some of the patients who receive our products to directly absorb medical costs or that may necessitate the reduction of the selling prices of our products; • changes in duties and tariffs, license obligations and other non-tariff barriers to trade; • the imposition of new trade restrictions; • the imposition of restrictions on the activities of foreign agents, representatives and distributors; • scrutiny of foreign tax authorities which could result in significant fines, penalties and additional taxes being imposed on us; • pricing pressure that we may experience internationally; • laws and business practices favoring local companies; • significantly longer payment cycles; • difficulties in maintaining consistency with our internal guidelines; • difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; • difficulties in enforcing or defending intellectual property rights; • exposure to different legal and political standards due to our conducting business in over 65 countries; and • fluctuation in the rate of exchange between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies which may make the effective price of our products more expensive to our distributors in foreign markets. No assurance can be given that one or more of the factors will not harm our business. Any material decrease in our international sales would adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. Our international sales are predominately in Europe. In Europe, health care regulation and reimbursement for medical devices vary significantly from country to country. This changing environment could adversely affect our ability to sell our products in some European countries. Fluctuations in the rate of exchange between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies in which we transact business could adversely affect our financial results or cause our results to fluctuate. We sell our products to customers in the United States, Europe and elsewhere throughout the world. Although most of our sales are made in U.S. dollars, a significant portion of our sales are denominated in foreign currencies, especially the Euro. Approximately 27% and 24% of our net sales were denominated in foreign currencies in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Our principal exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates relate to non-U.S. dollar denominated sales in Europe and throughout the world, as well as non-U.S. dollar denominated operating expenses incurred in Europe and throughout the world. Our reported net earnings may be significantly affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, with earnings generally decreasing with a strengthening U.S. dollar and increasing with a weaker U.S. dollar. For sales not denominated in U.S. dollars, if there is an increase in the rate at which a foreign currency is exchanged for U.S. dollars, it will require more of the foreign currency to equal a specified amount of U.S. dollars than before the rate increase. In such cases, we will receive less in U.S. dollars than we did before the exchange rate increase went into effect. Thus, a strengthening U.S. dollar relative to the foreign currencies in which we transact business will adversely affect the U.S. dollar value of our foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings. Although we may raise international pricing in such circumstances, such price increases may potentially reduce demand for our products, and thus in most circumstances, due to competition or 41 Table of Contents other reasons, we may decide not to raise local prices to the full extent of the U.S. dollar’s strengthening or at all. A weakening of the U.S dollar relative to the foreign currencies in which we transact business is generally beneficial to our foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings. However, it may cause us to reduce our international pricing, thereby limiting the benefit. Additionally, strengthening of foreign currencies also may increase our operating costs or costs of product components denominated in those currencies, thus adversely affecting our gross margins. If we price our products in U.S. dollars and competitors price their products in local currency, an increase in the relative strength of the U.S. dollar could result in our price not being competitive in a market where business is transacted in the local currency. We have hedged and may continue to hedge exposure to foreign currency exchange rates in the future. If we engage in hedging activities, such activities involve risk and may not limit our underlying exposure from currency fluctuations or minimize our net sales and earnings volatility associated with foreign currency exchange rate changes. A substantial portion of our assets consist of goodwill and intangible assets and any impairment in the value of our goodwill and intangible assets would have the effect of decreasing our earnings or increasing our losses. As of December 31, 2009, goodwill and intangible assets represented $621.8 million, or approximately 69%, of our total assets. During 2008, we recorded $288.8 million in goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges. The accounting standards require goodwill to be reviewed at least annually for impairment, and do not permit amortization. In the event that impairment is identified, a charge to earnings will be recorded and our stock price may decline as a result. We review our intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. An impairment loss on intangible assets is recognized when future undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset and its eventual disposition are less than the carrying amount. If we experience additional substantial declines in our market capitalization or if we experience other events or changes in circumstances that may indicate that the carrying amount of our goodwill and/or other intangible assets may not be recoverable, we may incur additional non-cash impairment charges to both our goodwill and intangible assets in future periods. For example, such other events or changes in circumstances may include a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which an asset is being used or in the business climate that could affect the value of the asset, or significant reductions in operating cash flows, or a projection or forecast that demonstrates continuing losses associated with the use of the asset and a current expectation that, more likely than not, an asset will be sold or otherwise disposed of significantly before the end of its previously estimated useful life. If we are required to record an impairment charge to earnings relating to goodwill or intangible assets, it will have the effect of decreasing our earnings or increasing our losses. Consolidation in the healthcare industry could lead to demands for price concessions or to the exclusion of some suppliers from certain of our markets, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. Because healthcare costs have risen significantly over the past decade, numerous initiatives and reforms initiated by legislators, regulators and third-party payors to curb these costs have resulted in a consolidation trend in the healthcare industry to create new companies with greater market power, including hospitals. As the healthcare industry consolidates, competition to provide products and services to industry participants has become and will continue to become more intense. This in turn has resulted and will likely continue to result in greater pricing pressures and the exclusion of certain suppliers from important market segments as group purchasing organizations, independent delivery networks and large single accounts continue to use their market power to consolidate purchasing decisions for some of our hospital customers. We expect that market demand, government regulation, third-party reimbursement policies and societal pressures will continue to change the worldwide healthcare industry, resulting in further business consolidations and alliances, which may increase competition, exert further downward pressure on the prices of their products and may adversely impact our business, financial condition or operating results. 42 Table of Contents Our group purchasing organization contracts are up for renewal during 2010 and if such contracts are not renewed, our net sales could suffer. Our ability to sell our products to hospitals in the United States depends in part on our relationships with group purchasing organizations, or GPOs. Many existing and potential customers for our products are or become members of GPOs. GPOs negotiate pricing arrangements and contracts, sometimes on an exclusive basis, with medical supply manufacturers and distributors, and these negotiated prices are made available to a GPO’s affiliated hospitals and other members. If we are not one of the providers selected by a GPO, affiliated hospitals and other members may be less likely to purchase our products, and if the GPO has negotiated a strict sole source, market share compliance or bundling contract for another manufacturer’s products, we may be precluded from making sales to members of the GPO for the duration of the contractual arrangement. We currently have contracts with multiple GPOs, several of which are subject to renewal during 2010. More than 50% of our total U.S. net sales in 2009 was derived from the GPO relationships that are subject to renewal this year. Our failure to renew one or more of these GPO contracts may cause us to lose market share and could have a material adverse effect on our net sales and operating results. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew, renegotiate or replace these contracts at the current or substantially similar terms. If we are unable to maintain our current GPO relationships and/or develop new GPO relationships, our net sales and competitive position likely would suffer. We may be subject to intellectual property litigation and infringement claims, which could cause us to incur liabilities and costs, prevent us from selling our products, cause us to redesign our products, require us to enter into costly license agreements and result in other adverse consequences. The medical device industry is litigious with respect to patents and other intellectual property rights. Companies operating in our industry routinely seek patent protection for their product designs, and many of our principal competitors have large patent portfolios. Companies in the medical device industry have used intellectual property litigation to gain a competitive advantage, including aggressively challenging the patent rights of other companies in order to prevent the marketing of new products. The fact that we have patents issued to us for our products does not mean that we will always be able to successfully defend our patents and proprietary rights against challenges or claims of infringement by our competitors. Whether a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, the determination of which is often uncertain. We have incurred in the past significant costs in connection with patent litigation, including in connection with our previous litigation with the Regents of the University of California and Boston Scientific Corporation. We continue to face the risk of claims that we have infringed on third parties’ intellectual property rights. From time to time, in the ordinary course of business, we receive notices from third parties alleging infringement or misappropriation of the patent, trademark or other intellectual property rights of third parties by us or our customers in connection with the use of our products or we otherwise may become aware of possible infringement claims against us. We routinely analyze such claims and determine how best to respond in light of the circumstances existing at the time, including the importance of the intellectual property right to us and the third party, the relative strength of our position of non-infringement or non-misappropriation and the product or products incorporating the intellectual property right at issue. We also may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology. Prior to launching major new products in our key markets, we normally evaluate existing intellectual property rights. However, our competitors may have filed for patent protection which is not as yet a matter of public knowledge or claim trademark rights that have not been revealed through our availability searches. Our efforts to identify and avoid infringing on third parties’ intellectual property rights may not always be successful. Any claims of patent or other intellectual property infringement, even those without merit, could: • be expensive and time consuming to defend; • result in us being required to pay significant damages to third parties; 43 Table of Contents • cause us to cease making or selling products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • require us to redesign, reengineer or rebrand our products, if feasible; • require us to enter into license agreements in order to obtain the right to use a third party’s intellectual property, which agreements may require us to pay significant license fees, including royalties, or may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all and which licenses may be non-exclusive, which could provide our competitors access to the same technologies; • divert the attention of our management and other personnel from other business issues; or • result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of the affected products until resolution of the litigation. In addition, new patents obtained by our competitors could threaten a product’s continued life in the market even after it has already been introduced. Any of these adverse consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If our patents and other intellectual property rights do not adequately protect our products, we may lose market share to our competitors, which would harm our business. Our future success depends significantly on our ability to protect our proprietary rights to the technologies used in our products. We rely on patent protection, as well as a combination of copyright and trademark laws and nondisclosure, confidentiality and other contractual arrangements to protect our proprietary technology. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. In addition, we cannot be assured that any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of a patent to us. The United States Patent and Trademark Office, or PTO, may deny or require significant narrowing of claims in our pending patent applications, and patents issued as a result of the pending patent applications, if any, may not provide us with significant commercial protection or be issued in a form that is advantageous to us. We also could incur substantial costs in proceedings before the PTO. These proceedings could result in adverse decisions as to the priority of our inventions and the narrowing or invalidation of claims in issued patents. Our issued patents and those that may be issued in the future may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing related products. Litigation also may be necessary to enforce patent rights we hold or to protect trade secrets or techniques we own. Intellectual property litigation is costly and may adversely affect our operating results. Although we have taken steps to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology, there is no assurance that third parties will not be able to design around our patents. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology. In addition, we rely on the use of registered trademarks with respect to the brand names of some of our products. We also rely on common law trademark protection for some brand names, which are not protected to the same extent as our rights in the use of our registered trademarks. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meaningfully protect all of our rights in our unpatented proprietary technology or that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary products or processes or otherwise gain access to our unpatented proprietary technology. We seek to protect our know-how and other unpatented proprietary technology, in part with confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, independent distributors and consultants. However, such agreements may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of the agreements or in the event that our competitors discover or independently develop similar or identical designs or other proprietary information. For example, we are currently involved in litigation with Cardiovascular Systems, Inc. in which we allege misappropriation and use of our confidential information by CSI and certain of CSI’s employees who were formerly employees of our subsidiary, FoxHollow. The complaint also alleges that certain of CSI’s employees violated their employment agreements with FoxHollow requiring them to refrain from soliciting FoxHollow employees. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. For example, foreign countries generally do not allow patents to cover methods for performing surgical procedures. If we cannot adequately protect our intellectual property rights in these foreign 44 Table of Contents countries, our competitors may be able to compete more directly with us, which could adversely affect our competitive position and business. We also hold licenses from third parties that are necessary to use certain technologies used in the design and manufacturing of some of our products. The loss of such licenses would prevent us from manufacturing, marketing and selling these products, which could harm our business and operating results. We manufacture our products at single locations. Any disruption in these manufacturing facilities, any patent infringement claims with respect to our manufacturing process or otherwise any inability to manufacture a sufficient number of our products to meet demand could adversely affect our business and operating results. We rely on our manufacturing facilities in Plymouth, Minnesota, Irvine, California and Menlo Park, California. Any damage or destruction to our facilities and the manufacturing equipment we use to produce our products would be difficult to replace and could require substantial lead-time to repair or replace. The lease for our Plymouth manufacturing facility expires in 2010. If we are unable to renew this lease or find an alternative location on a timely basis, our manufacturing capabilities could be disrupted. Our facilities may be affected by natural or man-made disasters. In the event we are unable to renew our Plymouth manufacturing facility lease or if one of our facilities was affected by a disaster, we would be forced to rely on third-party manufacturers if we could not shift production to one of our other manufacturing facilities. In the case of a device with a premarket approval application, we might in such event be required to obtain prior FDA or notified body approval of an alternate manufacturing facility, which could delay or prevent our marketing of the affected product until such approval is obtained. Although we believe that we possess adequate insurance for damage to our property and the disruption of our business from casualties, such insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. It is also possible that one of our competitors could claim that our manufacturing process violates an existing patent. If we were unsuccessful in defending such a claim, we might be forced to stop production at one of our manufacturing facilities in the United States and to seek alternative facilities. Even if we were able to identify such alternative facilities, we might incur additional costs and experience a disruption in the supply of our products until those facilities are available. Any disruption in our manufacturing capacity could have an adverse impact on our ability to produce sufficient inventory of our products or may require us to incur additional expenses in order to produce sufficient inventory, and therefore would adversely affect our net sales and operating results. We have limited experience in manufacturing our products in commercial quantities and therefore may encounter unforeseen situations that could result in delays or shortfalls. Manufacturers often experience difficulties in increasing production, including problems with production yields and quality control and assurance. Any disruption or delay at our manufacturing facilities, any inability to accurately predict the number of products to manufacture or to expand our manufacturing capabilities if necessary could impair our ability to meet the demand of our customers and these customers may cancel orders or purchase products from our competitors, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our dependence on key suppliers puts us at risk of interruptions in the availability of our products, which could reduce our net sales and adversely affect our operating results. In addition, increases in prices for raw materials and components used in our products could adversely affect our operating results. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for certain raw materials and components used in our products. For reasons of quality assurance, cost effectiveness or availability, we procure certain raw materials and components from sole and limited source suppliers. We generally acquire such raw materials and components through purchase orders placed in the ordinary course of business, and as a result we do not have a significant inventory of these materials and components and do not have any guaranteed or contractual supply arrangements with many of these suppliers. In addition, we also rely on independent contract manufacturers for some of our products. Independent manufacturers have possession of, and in some cases hold title to, molds for certain manufactured components of our products. Our dependence on third-party suppliers involves several risks, including limited control over pricing, availability, quality and delivery schedules, as well as manufacturing yields and costs. Suppliers of raw materials and components may decide, or be required, for reasons beyond our control to cease supplying raw materials and components to us or to raise their prices. 45 Table of Contents Shortages of raw materials, quality control problems, production capacity constraints or delays by our contract manufacturers could negatively affect our ability to meet our production obligations and result in increased prices for affected parts. Any such shortage, constraint or delay may result in delays in shipments of our products or components, which could adversely affect our net sales and operating results. Increases in prices for raw materials and components used in our products could also adversely affect our operating results. In addition, the FDA and foreign regulators may require additional testing of any raw materials or components from new suppliers prior to our use of these materials or components. In the case of a device with a premarket approval application, we may be required to obtain prior FDA approval of a new supplier, which could delay or prevent our access or use of such raw materials or components or our marketing of affected products until such approval is granted. In the case of a device with clearance under section 510(k) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, referred to as a 510(k), we may be required to submit a new 510(k) if a change in a raw material or component supplier results in a change in a material or component supplied that is not within the 510(k) cleared device specifications. If we need to establish additional or replacement suppliers for some of these components, our access to the components might be delayed while we qualify such suppliers and obtain any necessary FDA approvals. Our suppliers of finished goods also are subject to regulatory inspection and scrutiny. Any adverse regulatory finding or action against those suppliers could impact their ability to supply us raw materials and components for our products. Our inability to successfully grow through future acquisitions, our failure to integrate any acquired businesses successfully into our existing operations or our discovery of previously undisclosed liabilities could negatively affect our business and operating results. In order to build our core technology platforms, we have acquired several businesses since our inception. For example, most recently, in June of 2009, we completed our acquisition of Chestnut. In October of 2007, we completed our acquisition of FoxHollow. In September of 2006, FoxHollow acquired Kerberos Proximal Solutions, Inc. In January of 2006, we acquired the outstanding shares of Micro Therapeutics, Inc. that we did not already own. We expect to continue to actively pursue additional targeted acquisitions of, investments in or alliances with, other companies and businesses in the future as a component of our business strategy. Our ability to grow through future acquisitions, investments and alliances will depend upon our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate attractive candidates on favorable terms and to obtain any necessary financing. Our inability to complete one or more acquisitions, investments or alliances could impair our ability to develop our product lines and to compete against many industry participants, many of whom have product lines broader than ours. Acquisitions, investments and alliances involve risks, including: • difficulties in integrating any acquired companies, personnel and products into our existing business; • delays in realizing projected efficiencies, cost savings, revenue synergies and other benefits of the acquired company or products; • inaccurate assessment of the future market size or market acceptance of any acquired products or technologies or the hurdles in obtaining regulatory approvals of such products; • inaccurate assessment of undisclosed, contingent or other liabilities or problems; • diversion of our management’s time and attention from other business concerns; • limited or no direct prior experience in new markets or countries we may enter; • higher costs of integration than we anticipated; • adverse accounting consequences; or • difficulties in retaining key employees of the acquired business who are necessary to manage the acquired business. 46 Table of Contents In addition, an anticipated or completed acquisition, investment or alliance could materially impair our operating results and liquidity by causing us to use our cash resources to pay the purchase price, incur debt or reallocate amounts of capital from other operating initiatives or requiring us to expense incurred transaction and restructuring costs and amortize acquired assets, incur non-recurring charges as a result of incorrect estimates made in the accounting for such transactions or record asset impairment charges. For example, we incurred impairment charges to our goodwill and other intangible assets totaling $288.8 million in our fourth quarter of 2008 which charges related primarily to assets derived from previous acquisitions. We also may discover deficiencies in internal controls, data adequacy and integrity, product quality, regulatory compliance and product liabilities which we did not uncover prior to our acquisition of such businesses, which could result in us becoming subject to penalties or other liabilities. Any difficulties in the integration of acquired businesses or unexpected penalties or liabilities in connection with such businesses could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. These risks could be heightened if we complete several acquisitions within a relatively short period of time. Finally, any acquisitions that involve the issuance of our common stock could be dilutive to our stockholders. Our products and our product development and marketing activities are subject to extensive regulation as a result of which we may not be able to obtain required regulatory approvals for our products in a cost-effective manner or at all, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. The production and marketing of our products and our ongoing research and development, preclinical testing and clinical trial activities are subject to extensive regulation and review by numerous governmental authorities both in the United States and abroad. U.S. and foreign regulations applicable to medical devices are wide-ranging and govern, among other things, the development, testing, marketing and premarket review of new medical devices, in addition to regulating manufacturing practices, reporting, advertising, exporting, labeling and record keeping procedures. We are required to obtain FDA approval or clearance before we can market our products in the United States and certain foreign countries. The regulatory process requires significant time, effort and expenditures to bring products to market, and it is possible that our products will not be approved for sale. The FDA recently has requested that the Institute of Medicine perform a study on whether legislative, regulatory or administrative changes are needed to the FDA’s 510(k) clearance process. The Institute of Medicine report is due in 2011. The FDA also announced an internal working group to evaluate and improve the consistency of FDA decision making in the clearance process, and recently released an internal report in which FDA officials questioned the 510(k) process in general. Various committees of the U.S. Congress also have indicated that they may consider investigating the FDA’s 510(k) process. Under the current 510(k) rules, certain types of medical device can obtain FDA approval without lengthy and expensive clinical trials. Among our product offerings, those products that require FDA approval have received such approval under the 510(k) rules. Most of our research and development programs and new product programs contemplate obtaining any required FDA approvals under the current 510(k) rules. Any changes to the current 510(k) or related FDA rules that make such rules more stringent or require more clinical data, could significantly increase the time and costs associated with bringing new products to market. This likely would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Even if regulatory approval or clearance of a product is granted, it may not be granted within the timeframe that we expect, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, even if regulatory approval or clearance of a product is granted, the approval or clearance could limit the uses for which the product may be labeled and promoted, which may limit the market for our products. Even after a product is approved or cleared by the FDA, we may have ongoing responsibilities under FDA regulations, non-compliance of which could result in the subsequent withdrawal of such approvals or clearances, or such approvals or clearances could be withdrawn due to the occurrence of unforeseen problems following initial approval. We also are subject to medical device reporting regulations that require us to report to the FDA if any of our products causes or contributes to a death or serious injury or if a malfunction were it to occur might cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. Any failure to obtain regulatory approvals or clearances on a timely basis or the subsequent withdrawal of such approvals or clearances could prevent us from successfully marketing our products, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. 47 Table of Contents Our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in governmental agencies: • imposing fines and penalties on us; • preventing us from manufacturing or selling our products; • bringing civil or criminal charges against us; • delaying the introduction of our new products into the market; • suspending any ongoing clinical trials; • issuing an injunction preventing us from manufacturing or selling our products or imposing restrictions; • recalling or seizing our products; or • withdrawing or denying approvals or clearances for our products. Our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements also may result in us not being able to meet the demands of our customers and our customers canceling orders or purchasing products from our competitors, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. When required, with respect to the products we market in the United States, we have obtained premarket notification clearance under section 510(k), but do not believe certain modifications we have made to our products require us to submit new 510(k) notifications. However, if the FDA disagrees with us and requires us to submit a new 510(k) notification for modifications to our existing products, we may be subject to enforcement actions by the FDA and be required to stop marketing the products while the FDA reviews the 510(k) notification. If the FDA requires us to go through a lengthier, more rigorous examination than we had expected, our product introductions or modifications could be delayed or canceled, which could cause our sales to decline. In addition, the FDA may determine that future products will require the more costly, lengthy and uncertain premarket approval application process. Products that are approved through a premarket approval application generally need FDA approval before they can be modified. If we fail to submit changes to products developed under IDEs or premarket approval applications in a timely or adequate manner, we may become subject to regulatory actions. In addition, we market our products in certain countries outside of the United States. In order to market our products abroad, we are required to obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous requirements. If additional regulatory requirements are implemented in the foreign countries in which we sell our products, the cost of developing or selling our products may increase. We depend on our distributors outside the United States in seeking regulatory approval to market our devices in certain other countries and we therefore are dependent on persons outside of our direct control to secure such approvals. For example, we are highly dependent on distributors in emerging markets such as China and Brazil for regulatory submissions and approvals and do not have direct access to health care agencies in those markets to ensure timely regulatory approvals or prompt resolution of regulatory or compliance matters. If our distributors fail to obtain the required approvals or do not do so in a timely manner, our sales from our international operations and our operating results may be adversely affected. 48 Table of Contents If we or others identify side effects after any of our products are on the market, we may be required to withdraw our products from the market, which would hinder or preclude our ability to generate sales. As part of our post-market regulatory responsibilities for our products classified as medical devices, we are required to report all serious injuries or deaths involving our products, and any malfunctions where a serious injury or death would be likely if the malfunction were to recur. If we or others identify side effects after any of our products are on the market: • regulatory authorities may withdraw their approvals; • we may be required to redesign or reformulate our products; • we may have to recall the affected products from the market and may not be able to reintroduce them onto the market; • our reputation in the marketplace may suffer; and • we may become the target of lawsuits, including class action suits. Any of these events, some of which have happened to us in the recent past, could harm or prevent sales of the affected products or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing or marketing these products. Our manufacturing facilities are subject to extensive governmental regulation with which compliance is costly and which expose us to penalties for non-compliance. We and our third party manufacturers are required to register with the FDA as device manufacturers and as a result, we and our third party manufacturers are subject to periodic inspections by the FDA for compliance with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR, requirements, which require manufacturers of medical devices to adhere to certain regulations, including testing, quality control and documentation procedures. In addition, the federal Medical Device Reporting regulations require us and our third party manufacturers to provide information to the FDA whenever there is evidence that reasonably suggests that a device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or, if a malfunction were to occur, could cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. Compliance with applicable regulatory requirements is subject to continual review and is rigorously monitored through periodic inspections by the FDA. We also are subject to similar state requirements and licenses. In the European Community, we are required to maintain certain International Organization for Standardization, or ISO, certifications in order to sell products and we are required to undergo periodic inspections by notified bodies to obtain and maintain these certifications. If we or our manufacturers fail to adhere to QSR or ISO requirements, this could delay production of our products and lead to fines, difficulties and delays in obtaining regulatory approvals and clearances, the withdrawal of regulatory approvals and clearances, recalls or other consequences, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. In addition, regulatory agencies may not agree with the extent or speed of corrective actions relating to product or manufacturing problems. Our operations are subject to environmental, health and safety, and other laws and regulations, with which compliance is costly and which expose us to penalties for non-compliance. Our business, properties and products are subject to foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, natural resources and worker health and safety and the use, management, storage, and disposal of hazardous substances, wastes, and other regulated materials. Because we operate real property, various environmental laws also may impose liability on us for the costs of cleaning up and responding to hazardous substances that may have been released on our property, including releases unknown to us. These environmental laws and regulations also could require us to pay for environmental remediation and response costs at third-party locations where we disposed of or recycled hazardous substances. The costs of complying with these various environmental requirements, as they now exist or may be altered in the future, could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. 49 Table of Contents We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available or may be available only on unfavorable terms. In addition, any equity financings may be dilutive to our stockholders. As of December 31, 2009, we had $98.1 million in cash and cash equivalents. We believe that our proposed operating plan can be accomplished without additional financing based on our cash and cash equivalent balance, current and projected net sales and expenses, working capital and current and anticipated financing arrangements. However, there can be no assurance that our anticipated net sales or expense projections will be realized. Furthermore, there may be delays in obtaining necessary governmental approvals of our products or introducing our products to market or other events that may cause our actual cash requirements to exceed those for which we have budgeted. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our ability to sustain profitability, the amount and timing of any losses, our cash flows from operations, expenditures on intellectual property and technologies, the number of clinical trials which we will conduct, new product development and acquisitions. To the extent that our then existing capital, including amounts available under our current and anticipated financing arrangements, is insufficient to cover any losses and meet these requirements, we will need to raise additional funds through financings or borrowings or curtail our growth and reduce our assets. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us, especially in light of the difficult market conditions for raising additional financing. Equity or debt financing arrangements could result in dilution to our stockholders, and the securities issued in future financings as well as in any future acquisitions may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our common stock. If we obtain debt financing, a portion of our operating cash flow would be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on such indebtedness, thus limiting funds available for our business activities, and we could be subject to covenants that restrict our ability to operate our business and make distributions to our stockholders. If our need for capital arises because of continued losses, the occurrence of these losses may make it more difficult for us to raise the necessary capital. Our quarterly operating results are subject to substantial fluctuations and you should not rely on them as an indication of our future results. Our quarterly operating and financial results may fluctuate from period to period due to a combination of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These include: • the seasonality of our product sales, which typically results in higher demand in our fourth quarter and lower sales volumes in our third quarter; • the mix of our products sold; • demand for, and pricing of, our products and the products of our competitors; • timing of or failure to obtain regulatory approvals for products; • costs, benefits and timing of new product introductions by us and our competitors; • increased competition; • the timing and extent of promotional pricing or volume discounts; • the timing of larger orders by customers and the timing of shipment of such orders; • field inventory levels; • changes in average selling prices; • the availability and cost of components and materials; • the number of selling days; 50 Table of Contents • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • the possible deferral of revenue under our revenue recognition policies; • the timing of operating expenses in anticipation of sales; • the timing of operating expenses for clinical and other product development activities; • unanticipated expenses; • the accounting treatment of the contingent consideration we agreed to pay in connection with our acquisition of Chestnut; • the accounting treatment for income taxes, including the potential future reversal of our valuation allowance and the resulting impact on our future recorded effective tax rate; • other costs related to acquisitions of technologies or businesses; • restructuring, impairment and other special charges; and • fluctuations in investment returns on invested cash balances. Because of these and other factors, our quarterly sales and other operating results may vary significantly in the future and thus period to period comparisons may not be meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of our future performance. Any shortfalls in sales or earnings from levels expected by securities analysts or investors could cause our stock price to decline significantly. We may become obligated to make large milestone payments that are not reflected in our consolidated financial statements in certain circumstances, which would negatively impact our cash flows. In addition, due to changes in applicable generally accepted accounting principles, the milestone payment for our recent acquisition of Chestnut likely could negatively impact our future operating results. Pursuant to the acquisition agreements relating to our purchases of Chestnut, MitraLife and Appriva and FoxHollow’s purchase of Kerberos Proximal Solutions, Inc., we and/or our subsidiaries agreed to make additional payments to the sellers of these businesses in the event that we achieve contractually defined milestones. Generally, in each case, these milestone payments become due upon the completion of specific regulatory steps in the product commercialization process. Under the terms of our acquisition agreement with Chestnut, we may be obligated to make an additional milestone payment of up to $75 million if the FDA issues a letter granting pre-market approval for the commercialization of the Pipeline Embolization Device in the United States pursuant to an indication to treat intracranial aneurysms on or before December 31, 2012. The milestone payment is to be made in cash and shares of our common stock and is subject to certain rights of set-off for permitted indemnification claims by us against Chestnut. If we are required to make an additional milestone payment of cash and common stock to the former Chestnut shareholders and if we do not have a sufficient amount of cash and cash equivalents to make this milestone payment, we will be required to raise additional financing, which may be difficult or impossible, depending upon our business and operating results and the market for such financings at that time. With respect to the MitraLife acquisition, the maximum potential milestone payments totaled $25 million, and with respect to the Appriva acquisition, the maximum potential milestone payments totaled $175 million. Although we do not believe that it is likely that the milestone payment obligations to MitraLife or Appriva became due, the former stockholders of Appriva disagree with our position and have brought litigation against us making a claim for such payments and it is possible that the former stockholders of MitraLife also could disagree with our position and make a claim for such payments. Pursuant to the acquisition agreement relating to FoxHollow’s purchase of Kerberos Proximal Solutions, Inc., FoxHollow agreed to pay certain earn-out payments which are capped at $117 million upon the achievement of contractually defined net sales milestones. We have received correspondence from counsel for the shareholder representatives of Kerberos alleging that FoxHollow has not used commercially reasonable efforts to market, promote, sell and distribute Kerberos’s Rinspirator products, as required under the 51 Table of Contents agreement and plan of merger. There can be no assurance that the stockholder representatives of Kerberos will not commence litigation on the alleged claims. The defense of the outstanding litigation related to our Appriva acquisition and the outstanding claims related to FoxHollow’s Kerberos acquisition is, and any such additional dispute with MitraLife would likely be, costly and time-consuming and divert our management’s time and attention away from our business. In the event any such milestone payments become due and/or any other damages become payable, our costs would increase correspondingly which would negatively impact our cash flow from operations. We have accounted for our acquisition of Chestnut using the acquisition method. The fair value of the potential $75 million milestone payment in connection with our acquisition of Chestnut has been included as a component of consideration transferred at the acquisition date fair value and is classified as a liability on our consolidated balance sheet and is remeasured at fair value at each reporting date with changes in fair value recognized as income or expense. Therefore, any change in the fair value will impact our earnings in such reporting period thereby resulting in potential variability in our earnings until the contingent consideration is resolved. Assuming that we continue to expect to achieve the regulatory milestone, the accounting impact of the future milestone payment likely will negatively impact our future operating results. We rely on independent sales distributors and sales associates to market and sell our products outside of the United States, Canada, Australia and Europe. Our future success outside of the United States, Canada, Australia and Europe depends largely upon marketing arrangements with independent sales distributors and sales associates, in particular their sales and service expertise and relationships with the customers in the marketplace. Independent distributors and sales associates may terminate their relationship with us, or devote insufficient sales efforts to our products. We are not able to control our independent distributors, including their sales activities. Accordingly, although we require all of our independent sales distributors and sales associates to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, we cannot assure that they will do so. In addition, because we have no control over their sales activities, we cannot assure that they will be successful in implementing our marketing plans. Many of our independent distributors outside of the United States, Canada, Australia and Europe initially obtain and maintain foreign regulatory approval for sale of our products in their respective countries. Our failure to maintain our relationships with our independent distributors and sales associates outside of the United States, Canada, Australia and Europe, or our failure to recruit and retain additional skilled independent sales distributors and sales associates in these locations, could have an adverse effect on our operations. We have experienced turnover with some of our independent distributors in the past that has adversely affected our short-term financial results while we transitioned to new independent distributors. Similar occurrences could happen to us in the future. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, including in particular any strengthening of the U.S. dollar may cause our independent sales distributors to seek longer payment terms to offset the higher prices they are paying in local currency for our products. In addition, in light of adverse worldwide economic conditions, the ability of our distributors to borrow money from their existing lenders or to obtain credit from other sources to purchase our products may be impaired or our distributors could experience a significant change in their liquidity or financial condition, all of which could impair their ability to distribute our products and eventually lead to distributor turnover. We are exposed to product liability claims that could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. The design, manufacture and sale of medical devices expose us to significant risk of product liability claims, some of which may have a negative impact on our business. Most of our products were developed relatively recently and defects or risks that we have not yet identified may give rise to product liability claims. Our product liability insurance coverage may be inadequate to protect us from any liabilities we may incur or we may not be able to maintain adequate product liability insurance at acceptable rates. If a product liability claim or series of claims is brought against us for uninsured liabilities or in excess of our insurance coverage and it is ultimately determined that we are liable, our business could suffer. Additionally, we could experience a material design defect or manufacturing failure in our products, a quality system failure, other safety issues or heightened regulatory scrutiny that would warrant a recall of some of our products. A recall of our products also could result in increased product liability claims. Further, while we train our physician customers on the proper usage of our products, there can be no assurance that they will implement our instructions accurately. If our products are used incorrectly by our customers, injury may result and this could give rise to product liability claims against us. Even a meritless or 52 Table of Contents unsuccessful product liability claim could harm our reputation in the industry, lead to significant legal fees and could result in the diversion of management’s attention from managing our business and may have a negative impact on our business and our operating results. In addition, successful product liability claims against one of our competitors could cause claims to be made against us. We face competition from other companies, which could adversely impact our business and operating results. The markets in which we compete are highly competitive, subject to change and significantly affected by new product introductions and other activities of industry participants. Because of the size of the peripheral vascular and neurovascular markets, competitors and potential competitors have historically dedicated and will continue to dedicate significant resources to aggressively promote their products, develop new and improved products and/or acquire smaller companies with established and/or promising product lines. Our competitors and potential competitors may develop or acquire technologies and products that are safer, more effective, easier to use, less expensive or more readily accepted than ours. Their products could make our technology and products obsolete or noncompetitive. None of our customers have long-term purchase agreements with us and at any time may switch to the use of our competitors’ products. Many of our physician customers like to experiment with new technologies. Within the plaque excision market, although we believe our plaque excision products compete favorably against other competing technologies, surgical procedures and pharmaceutical products, recently introduced plaque excision products by our competitors have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect future sales of our plaque excision products, at least in the short term while physician customers experiment with such new products. Within the peripheral vascular stent market, we have experienced and may continue to experience increased competition from C. R. Bard Inc. which announced in 2009 that the FDA cleared certain of its stents for use in the superficial femoral arteries and proximal popliteal arteries, if physicians decide to use C. R. Bard Inc.’s FDA cleared stents rather than our stents off-label. Our competitors range from small start-up companies to much larger companies. The larger companies with which we compete include Abbott Laboratories, Boston Scientific Corporation, Cook Incorporated, Cordis Corporation (a Johnson & Johnson company), Covidien Public Limited Company, C.R. Bard Inc., Medtronic, Inc., Terumo/MicroVention, Inc. and W.L. Gore & Associates, Inc. All of these larger companies have substantially greater capital resources, larger customer bases, broader product lines, larger sales forces, greater marketing and management resources, larger research and development staffs and larger facilities than ours and have established reputations and relationships with our target customers, as well as worldwide distribution channels that are more effective than ours. We also compete, however, and in some cases even more intensely, with smaller manufacturers. In the peripheral vascular market, we compete against, among others: MEDRAD, Inc., Cardiovascular Systems, Inc., Pathway Medical Technologies, Inc., Idev Technologies, Inc., Invatec s.r.l. (which recently agreed to be acquired by Medtronic) and Spectranetics Corporation. In the neurovascular market, we compete against, among others: Balt Extrusion, Inc. and Micrus Corporation. In addition, we compete with a number of drug therapy treatments manufactured by major pharmaceutical companies, including Otsuka Pharmaceutical, the manufacturer of Pletal, and Sanofi Aventis, the manufacturer of Plavix. We also compete with other manufacturers of medical devices for clinical sites to conduct human trials. If we are not able to locate clinical sites on a timely or cost-effective basis, this could impede our ability to conduct trials of our products and, therefore, our ability to obtain required regulatory clearance or approval. 53 Table of Contents We rely on our management information systems for accounting and finance, inventory management, distribution and other functions and to maintain our research and development and clinical data. If our information systems fail to adequately perform these functions or if we experience an interruption in their operation, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our management information systems, on which we rely to effectively manage accounting and financial functions; manage order entry, order fulfillment and inventory replenishment processes; and to maintain research and development and clinical data. The failure of our management information systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and product development and could result in decreased sales, increased overhead costs, excess inventory and product shortages, causing our business and operating results to suffer. In addition, our management information systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: • earthquake, fire, flood and other natural disasters; • terrorist attacks and attacks by computer viruses or hackers; and • power loss or computer systems, Internet, telecommunications or data network failure. Any such interruption could adversely affect our business and operating results. We face a risk of non-compliance with certain financial covenants in our loan agreement with Silicon Valley Bank. If we are unable to meet the financial or other covenants under the agreement or negotiate future waivers or amendments of the covenants, we could be in default under the agreement, which would give Silicon Valley Bank a range of remedies, including declaring all outstanding debt to be due and payable, foreclosing on the assets securing the loan agreement and/or ceasing to provide additional revolving loans or letters of credit, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Our operating subsidiaries, ev3 Endovascular, Inc., ev3 International, Inc., Micro Therapeutics, Inc. and FoxHollow Technologies, Inc., are parties to a loan and security agreement with Silicon Valley Bank. The facility consists of a $50.0 million revolving line of credit and a $10.0 million term loan. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $6.5 million in outstanding borrowings under the term loan and no outstanding borrowings under the revolving line of credit; however, we had approximately $934,000 of outstanding letters of credit issued by Silicon Valley Bank. The loan agreement requires us to maintain a monthly specified liquidity ratio and a quarterly adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA, level. The loan agreement contains customary events of default, including, among others, the failure to comply with certain covenants or other agreements. Upon the occurrence and during the continuation of an event of default, amounts due under the loan agreement may be accelerated by Silicon Valley Bank. If we are unable to meet the financial or other covenants under the loan agreement or negotiate future waivers or amendments of such covenants, an event of default could occur under the loan agreement. Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an event of default under the loan agreement, Silicon Valley Bank has available a range of remedies customary in these circumstances, including declaring all outstanding debt, together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon, to be due and payable, foreclosing on the assets securing the loan agreement and/or ceasing to provide additional revolving loans or letters of credit, which could have a material adverse effect on us. 54 Table of Contents The restrictive covenants in our loan agreement could limit our ability to conduct our business and respond to changing economic and business conditions and may place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to other companies that are subject to fewer restrictions. Our loan and security agreement with Silicon Valley Bank requires us to maintain a specified liquidity ratio and an adjusted EBITDA level. Our failure to comply with these financial covenants could adversely affect our financial condition. The loan agreement limits our ability and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to, among other things: • transfer all or any part of our business or properties; • permit or suffer a change in control; • merge or consolidate, or acquire any entity; • engage in any material new line of business; • incur additional indebtedness or liens with respect to any of their properties; • pay dividends or make any other distribution on or purchase of, any of their capital stock; • make investments in other companies; or • engage in related party transactions, subject in each case to certain exceptions and limitations. As of December 31, 2009, our cash and cash equivalents were $98.1 million. In light of the amount of our cash and cash equivalents and the amounts outstanding under the loan agreement, it is possible that if we needed to we could pay off the outstanding amounts under the loan agreement at this time. However, it is also possible that if we do not generate cash from operations as we anticipate or if we incur significant unanticipated costs that we may need the flexibility provided under our Silicon Valley Bank loan agreement. The restrictive covenants under the loan agreement could limit our ability, and that of certain of our subsidiaries, to obtain future financing, withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general or otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. The financial and restrictive covenants contained in the loan agreement also could adversely affect our ability to respond to changing economic and business conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to other companies that may be subject to fewer restrictions. Transactions that we may view as important opportunities, such as acquisitions, may be subject to the consent of Silicon Valley Bank, which consent may be withheld or granted subject to conditions specified at the time that may affect the attractiveness or viability of the transaction. If we remain profitable, we cannot assure you that our net operating losses will be available to reduce our tax liability. Our ability to use, or the amount of, our net operating losses may be limited or reduced. Generally under section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, in the event of an “ownership change” of a company, the company is only allowed to use a limited amount of its net operating losses arising prior to the ownership change for each taxable year thereafter. As a result of prior acquisitions, including Chestnut and FoxHollow, and potential future acquisitions, our ability to use existing net operating losses to offset U.S. federal taxable income, if we continue to generate taxable income, may be subject to substantial limitations. These limitations could potentially result in increased future tax liability for us. 55 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Common Stock One of our principal stockholders and its affiliates are able to influence matters requiring stockholder approval and could discourage the purchase of our outstanding shares at a premium. As of December 31, 2009, Warburg Pincus beneficially owned approximately 24.2% of our outstanding common stock. In addition, under a holders agreement, we are required to nominate and use our best efforts to have elected to our board of directors two persons designated by Warburg Pincus and certain of its affiliates, which we refer to collectively as the “Warburg Pincus Entities,” and Vertical Fund I, L.P. and Vertical Fund II, L.P., which we refer to together as the “Vertical Funds,” if the Warburg Pincus Entities, the Vertical Funds and their affiliates collectively beneficially own 20% or more of our common stock. As a result of Warburg Pincus’s share ownership and representation on our board of directors, Warburg Pincus is able to influence our affairs and actions, including matters requiring stockholder approval, such as the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. The interests of Warburg Pincus may differ from the interests of our other stockholders. For example, Warburg Pincus could oppose a third party offer to acquire us that the other stockholders might consider attractive, and the third party may not be able or willing to proceed unless Warburg Pincus, as one of our significant stockholders, supports the offer. Warburg Pincus’s concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale or merger of our company and may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Transactions that could be affected by this concentration of ownership include proxy contests, tender offers, mergers or other purchases of common stock that could give our stockholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for shares of our common stock. In such case and in similar situations, our other stockholders may disagree with Warburg Pincus as to whether the action opposed or supported by Warburg Pincus is in the best interest of our stockholders. Certain of our principal stockholders may have conflicts of interests with our other stockholders or our company in the future. Certain of our principal stockholders, including Warburg Pincus, may make investments in companies and from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. These other investments may: • create competing financial demands on our principal stockholders; • create potential conflicts of interest; and • require efforts consistent with applicable law to keep the other businesses separate from our operations. These principal stockholders also may pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. Furthermore, these principal stockholders may have an interest in us pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investment, even though such transactions might involve risks to our stockholders. In addition, these principal stockholders’ rights to vote or dispose of equity interests in us are not subject to restrictions in favor of us other than as may be required by applicable law. Our corporate documents and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition involving our company that our stockholders may consider favorable. For example, our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 100 million shares of “blank check” preferred stock. Without stockholder approval, the board of directors has the authority to attach special rights, including voting and dividend rights, to this preferred stock. With these rights, preferred stockholders could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire our company. In addition, our certificate of incorporation provides for a staggered board of directors, 56 Table of Contents whereby directors serve for three-year terms, with approximately one-third of the directors coming up for reelection each year. Having a staggered board makes it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of our board of directors through a proxy contest, which may be a necessary step in an acquisition of our company that is not favored by our board of directors. We also are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Under these provisions, if anyone becomes an “interested stockholder,” we may not enter into a “business combination” with that person for three years without special approval, which could discourage a third party from making a takeover offer and could delay or prevent a change of control. For purposes of Section 203, “interested stockholder” means, generally, someone owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or an affiliate of our company that owned 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock during the past three years, subject to certain exceptions as described in Section 203. Under one such exception, Warburg Pincus does not constitute an “interested stockholder.” A large percentage of our outstanding common stock is held by insiders, and, as a result, the trading market for our common stock may not be as liquid as the stock of other public companies, and our common stock price could be volatile. As of December 31, 2009, we had 112.3 million shares of common stock outstanding and 27.1% of the shares were beneficially owned by directors, executive officers and their respective affiliates. Companies with a substantial amount of stock held by insiders can be subject to a more volatile stock price. Fluctuations in the price of our common stock could be significant and likely will be impacted by a number of factors, such as: • the introduction of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • changes in our growth rate or our competitors’ growth rates; • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; • our ability to develop, obtain regulatory clearance or approval for, and market new and enhanced products on a timely basis; • loss of any of key management personnel; • disputes or other developments with respect to intellectual property rights; • product liability claims or other litigation; • public concern as to the safety or efficacy of our products; • the public’s reaction to our press releases and other public announcements and our filings with the SEC; • sales of common stock by us, our significant stockholders, executive officers or directors; • changes in stock market analyst recommendations or earnings estimates regarding our common stock, other comparable companies or our industry generally; • changes in expectations or future performance; 57 Table of Contents • new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; and • changes in health care policy in the United States and internationally, including changes in the availability of third-party reimbursement. A significant decline in the price of our common stock could result in substantial losses for individual stockholders and could lead to costly and disruptive securities litigation. Securities class action litigation is sometimes brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities or for other reasons. We may become the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation, whether with or without merit, could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which could harm our business and financial condition, as well as the market price of our common stock. We do not intend to pay cash dividends for the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and we currently intend to retain all of our earnings for the foreseeable future to finance the operation and expansion of our business, and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the future. As a result, our stockholders will only receive a return on their investment in our common stock if the market price of our common stock increases. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 