ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Our business is dependent upon consumer demand for gaming and cash access services and overall economic trends specific to the gaming and cash access industries. Our customers consist almost entirely of casinos and other gaming establishments. As a result, our business is dependent upon consumer demand for gaming. Gaming is a discretionary leisure activity, the volume of which is difficult to predict. It is also difficult to foresee consumer patterns related to the use and mix of our products and services and shifts in these patterns could have a negative impact on our business. We believe this uncertainty is primarily attributable to patrons' reduced access to credit as well as patrons' attempts to manage their overall spending patterns. These trends have had an adverse impact on our results of operations and they may continue in the future. In addition, less than favorable economic conditions could reduce consumer disposable income and demand, which may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we are unable to maintain our current customers on terms that are favorable to us, our business, financial condition and operating results may suffer a material adverse effect. We enter into contracts with our gaming establishment customers to provide our cash access products and related services. Our contracts generally have an average term of three years in duration, but some are terminable upon 30 days advance notice or are terminable by our gaming establishment customers in the event that we fail to satisfy specific covenants set forth in the contracts, including gaming regulatory compliance and service level covenants. We are typically required to renegotiate the terms of our customer contracts upon their expiration, and in some circumstances we may be forced to modify the terms of our contracts before they expire. When we have successfully renewed these contracts, these negotiations have in the past resulted in, and in the future may result in, financial and other terms that are less favorable to us than the terms of the expired contracts. In particular, we are often required to pay a higher commission rate to a gaming establishment than we previously paid in order to renew the relationship. Assuming constant transaction volume, increases in commissions or other incentives paid to gaming establishments would negatively impact our operating results. We may not succeed in renewing these contracts when they expire, which would result in a complete loss of revenue from that customer, either for an extended period of time or forever. If we are required to pay higher commission rates or agree to other less favorable terms to retain our customers or we are not able to renew our relationships with our customers upon the expiration of our contracts, our business, financial condition and operating results would be harmed. Competition in the market for cash access services is intense, which could result in higher commissions or loss of customers to our competitors. The market for cash access products and related services is intensely competitive and we expect competition to increase and intensify in the future. We compete with other providers of cash access products and services, financial institutions and other regional and local banks that operate ATMs on the premises of gaming establishments. In markets outside North America, we encounter competition from banks and other financial service companies established in those markets. We also face competition from gaming establishments that choose to operate cash access systems on their own behalf rather than outsource to us. We face competition from traditional transaction processors that may choose to enter the gaming patron cash services market. In addition, we may face competition from new entrants into the market for cash access products and related services, such as banks. Some of our competitors and potential competitors have significant advantages over us, including greater name recognition, longer operating histories, pre-existing relationships with current or potential customers including pre-existing relationships relating to other financial services, significantly greater financial, marketing, technological and other 19 Table of Contents resources and more ready access to capital which allow them to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities. We have faced increased competition from smaller companies who have entered the market. These organizations tend to provide basic services and aggressive pricing. In addition, we face competition from gaming equipment manufacturers and system providers. This increased competition amongst these various providers of cash access services has resulted in pricing pressure and margin erosion with respect to our core cash access products and services. Other providers of cash access products and services to gaming establishments have in the past increased, and may in the future continue to increase, the commissions or other incentives they pay to gaming establishments in order to win those gaming establishments as customers and to gain market share. To the extent that competitive pressures force us to increase commissions or other incentives to establish or maintain relationships with gaming establishments, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Consolidation among our customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. As our contracts are often executed by one corporation for the provision of services at multiple gaming establishments, the loss of a single contract often results in the loss of multiple gaming establishments. Consolidation among operators of gaming establishments may also result in the loss of a top customer to the extent that customers of ours are acquired by our competitors' customers. We may be subject to fines, penalties, liabilities and legal claims resulting from unauthorized disclosure of cardholder and patron data, whether through a security breach of our computer systems, our third party processor's computer systems or otherwise. We collect and store personally identifiable information about cardholders and patrons that perform certain cash access and Central Credit transactions, including names, addresses, social security numbers, driver's license numbers and account numbers and we maintain a database of cardholder and patron data relating to our cash access and Central Credit transactions, including account numbers, in order to process our cash access and Central Credit transactions. We also rely on our third party processor and certain other technology partners to process and store cardholder and patron data relating to our cash access and Central Credit transactions. As a result, we, as well as our third party processor, certain of our other technology providers and some of our gaming establishment customers, are required to comply with various federal and state privacy statutes and regulations, and the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, each of which may be changed at any time. Compliance with these requirements is often difficult and costly, and our failure, or the failure of these other third parties to comply, may result in significant fines or civil penalties, regulatory enforcement action, liability to our sponsor bank and termination of our agreements with our gaming establishment customers, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and/or operations. A significant security breach could result in our being prohibited from providing cash access services for any of the relevant card associations or payment networks organizations. In addition, any data breach or failure to comply with any applicable privacy requirements could result in damage to our reputation, which could reduce and limit our ability to provide cash access and related services to our gaming establishment customers. Furthermore, if our computer systems or those of our third party processor or other technology providers are breached by unauthorized users, we may be subject to liability, including claims for unauthorized transactions with misappropriated bank card information, impersonation or similar fraud claims. We could also be subject to liability for any failure to comply with laws governing required notifications of such a breach. These claims also could result in protracted and costly litigation. In addition, we could be subject to penalties or sanctions from the card associations and payment networks. 20 Table of Contents Our ability to effectively operate in Native American gaming markets is vulnerable to legal and regulatory uncertainties, including the ability to enforce contractual rights on Native American land. Historically, we have derived a significant percentage of our revenue from the provision of cash access and related services on Native American lands. Because federally recognized Native American tribes are independent governments with sovereign powers, Native American tribes can enact their own laws and regulate gaming operations and contracts. Native American tribes maintain their own governmental systems and often their own judicial systems and have the right to tax persons and enterprises conducting business on Native American lands, and also have the right to require licenses and to impose other forms of regulation and regulatory fees on persons and businesses operating on their lands. In the absence of a specific grant of authority by Congress, states may regulate activities taking place on Native American lands only if the Native American tribe has a specific agreement or compact with the state. Our contracts with Native American tribal customers with respect to governing law and venue provisions vary widely. In addition, these choice-of-law and venue clauses may not be enforceable. Native American tribes generally enjoy sovereign immunity from lawsuits similar to that of the individual states and the United States. Before we can sue or enforce contract rights with a Native American tribe, or an agency or instrumentality of a Native American tribe, the Native American tribe must effectively waive its sovereign immunity with respect to the matter in dispute, which we are not always able to obtain. Without a limited waiver of sovereign immunity, or if such waiver is held to be ineffective, we could be precluded from judicially enforcing any rights or remedies against a Native American tribe, including the right to enter Native American lands to retrieve our property in the event of a breach of contract by the tribal party to that contract. Even if the waiver of sovereign immunity by a Native American tribe is deemed effective, there could be an issue as to the forum in which a lawsuit may be brought against the Native American tribe. Federal courts are courts of limited jurisdiction and generally do not have jurisdiction to hear civil cases relating to Native American tribes and we may be unable to enforce any arbitration decision effectively. Certain Native American tribes require us to contract with entities that are owned, controlled or managed by tribal members to provide a portion of our services. In some instances, these entities are subcontractors of us in connection with providing our services while in other instances we are a subcontractor to these entities who contract with the applicable tribal gaming casino or tribe directly to provide cash access services. Our ability to provide our services is dependent upon our relationship with these third parties and their ability to provide services in accordance with the terms of our contractual arrangement with these third parties and, in some instances, the third parties' relationship or contractual arrangement with the applicable tribal gaming casino or tribe. Our indebtedness could materially adversely affect our operations and financial results and prevent us from obtaining additional financing, if necessary. Our indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it: •increases our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; •requires us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, based on covenant requirements that may restrict us, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital expenditures, expansion efforts and other general corporate purposes; •limits our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; •restricts our ability to pay dividends or repurchase our common stock; •places us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; •restricts our ability to acquire businesses or technologies that would benefit our business; 21 Table of Contents •restricts our ability to engage in transactions with affiliates or creates liens or guarantees; and •limits among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds. The senior credit facility that we entered into in 2011, as amended, (the "Senior Credit Facility") contains restrictive and financial covenants that may limit our ability to engage in activities that we may believe to be in our long-term best interests. Specifically, the Senior Credit Facility contains affirmative and negative covenants customary for financings of this type, including, among other things, limits on the creation of liens, limits on the incurrence of indebtedness, restrictions on investments, acquisitions and dispositions, and the payment of dividends and other restricted payments. In addition, the Senior Credit Facility contains financial covenants requiring us to have a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio which are discussed in more detail in the section entitled "Borrowings under the Senior Credit Facility" in Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default, which if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt under the Senior Credit Facility, which may result in our inability to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness. To service our indebtedness we will require a significant amount of cash, and our ability to generate cash flow depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to generate cash flow from operations depends on general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Due to these factors, it is possible that our business will not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to enable us to pay our indebtedness as it matures and to fund our other liquidity needs. This would cause us to have to borrow money to meet these needs and future borrowing may not be available to us at all or in an amount sufficient to satisfy these needs. In such events, we will need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We could have to adopt one or more alternatives, such as reducing or delaying planned expenses and capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity or debt financing or joint venture partners. We may not be able to effect any of these financing strategies on satisfactory terms, if at all. Our failure to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms would have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness. The terms of our Senior Credit Facility require us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, which will reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, expansion efforts and other general corporate purposes. We may encounter difficulties managing our growth, including growth through acquisitions or strategic investments, or the change of any of our providers, which could adversely affect our operating results. Growth, including growth through acquisitions or strategic investments, or the change of any of our service providers, involve various risks, such as: •difficulty integrating the technologies, operations and personnel from the acquired business or a new service provider; •overestimation of potential synergies or a delay in realizing those synergies; •disruption to our ongoing business, including the diversion of management's attention and of resources from our principal business; •inability to obtain the desired financial and strategic benefits from the acquisition or investment; •reduced ability to control maintenance schedules, system availability, functionality or customer service levels of a new service provider; 22 Table of Contents •loss of customers of an acquired business; •assumption of unanticipated liabilities; •loss of key employees of an acquired business; and •entering into new markets in which we have limited prior experience. Acquisitions and strategic investments could also result in substantial cash expenditures, the dilutive issuance of our equity securities, the incurrence of additional debt and contingent liabilities, and amortization expenses related to other intangible assets that could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Acquisitions and strategic investments may also be highly dependent upon the retention and performance of existing management and employees of acquired businesses for the day-to-day management and future operating results of these businesses. Our ability to consummate acquisitions may be impaired by a number of factors, including decreases in the trading price of our common stock, our inability to comply with covenants relating to our existing debt or our inability to incur additional debt that is required to consummate acquisitions or finance the post-closing operations of acquired businesses. A material increase in market interest rates could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We currently rely upon Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. ("Wells Fargo") to supply us with cash for substantially all of our ATMs. We are obligated to pay a monthly cash usage fee equal to the average daily balance of funds realized multiplied by the three-month LIBOR plus a mutually agreed upon margin. Assuming no change in the amount of cash used to supply our ATMs, an increase in LIBOR will result in an increase in the monthly fee that we must pay to obtain this supply of cash, thereby increasing our ATM operating costs. Any increase in the amount of cash required to supply our ATMs would magnify the impact of an increase in LIBOR and our business could be adversely affected. As of December 31, 2013, all of our indebtedness under our Senior Credit Facility was at a variable interest rate tied to LIBOR. Any material increases to LIBOR could increase the amount of interest we are required to pay under the Senior Credit Facility and adversely affect our business and results of operations. An unexpectedly high level of chargebacks, as the result of fraud or otherwise, could adversely affect our cash access business. When patrons use our cash access services, we either dispense cash or produce a negotiable instrument that can be exchanged for cash. If a completed cash access transaction is subsequently disputed, and if we are unsuccessful in establishing the validity of the transaction, we may not be able to collect payment for such transaction and such transaction becomes a chargeback. In the event that we incur chargebacks in excess of specified levels, we could lose our sponsorship into the card associations. In addition, in the event that we incur chargebacks in excess of specified levels, we could be censured by the card associations by way of fines or otherwise. Our failure to adequately manage our chargebacks could have a material adverse effect on our business. An unexpected increase in check warranty expenses could adversely affect our check warranty business. In our Central Credit Check Warranty product under our third party warranty agreement, we receive all of the check warranty revenue. We charge our gaming establishment customers a fee for our check warranty services, which is typically a percentage of the face amount of the check being warranted. We are exposed to risk for the losses associated with any warranted items that we cannot collect from patrons issuing the items. Warranty receivables are defined as any amounts paid by the third party warranty provider to gaming establishments to purchase dishonored checks. Additionally, we pay a fee to the third party warranty provider for its services. There is no limit on the aggregate dollar amount to which we are exposed, which is a function of the face amount of checks warranted. We manage and mitigate the risks 23 Table of Contents associated with these dishonored checks through the use of risk analytics data from third party databases and collection efforts, including the additional fees that we are entitled to collect from check writers of dishonored checks. We have full control over the decision to warrant payment on a particular check under the third party warranty platform. If we fail to make sound risk assessment decisions or our risk analytics are ineffective in the approval of checks to be warranted, we may incur an unexpectedly high level of check warranty expenses at any time. The collection, storage, transmission, use and distribution of data regarding gaming patrons that use our services could give rise to liabilities or additional costs as a result of laws, governmental regulations or differing views of personal privacy rights. We collect, store and transmit large volumes of data regarding gaming patrons that utilize our cash access and Central Credit services. This data includes personally identifiable information, transaction behavioral data and credit history data. In some instances, we also utilize this data in connection with providing marketing services and data intelligence services to gaming establishments. This information is increasingly subject to federal, state and card association laws and regulations as well as laws and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world. Governmental regulations are typically intended to protect the privacy and security of such data and information as well as to regulate the collection, storage, transmission, transfer, use and distribution of such data and information. We could be adversely affected if domestic or international laws or regulations are expanded to require changes in our business practices or if governing jurisdictions interpret or implement their laws or regulations in ways that negatively affect our business or even prohibit us from offering certain marketing data intelligence or other services. Similarly, if we are required to allocate significant resources to modify our internal operating systems and procedures to enable enhanced protection of patron data that we transmit store and use, our business results could be adversely affected. We may face requirements that pose compliance challenges in new international markets that we seek to enter as various foreign jurisdictions have different laws and regulations concerning the storage, transmission and use of gaming patron data. Such variation could subject us to costs, liabilities or negative publicity that could impair our ability to expand our operations into some countries and therefore limit our future growth. We depend on third party transaction processors, telecommunication networks and other third party technology providers to provide our cash access and related services and if we, or any of these third parties, experience system or service failures, the products and services we provide could be delayed or interrupted, which could harm our business and reputation. We depend on third party processors, telecommunication networks and other third party technology providers to provide our cash access and related services. Our ability to provide uninterrupted and high levels of services depends upon the performance of these third party providers. Any significant interruptions or degradation of the quality of services being provided by these third parties could severely harm our business and reputation and result in a loss of revenues and damage to our reputation and business. All of these third party providers and their systems are potentially vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic security breaches, natural disasters and similar disruptions, which could lead to interruptions or outages of our services, delays, loss of data, public release of confidential data, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. 24 Table of Contents We rely on a single third party processor to process substantially all of our cash access transactions that are processed through various card associations and payment networks and the failure of our third party processor to adequately provide such processing services could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We rely on a single third party to provide processing services for the substantial majority of our transactions by obtaining authorizations for ATM cash withdrawal transactions, POS debit card transactions and credit card cash access transactions and to provide settlement transaction files to card associations and payment networks for some of these transactions. If our third party processor fails to adequately provide these services it could result in our systems being unable to process our cash access transactions intermittently or for extended periods of time, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, we have elected to switch third party processors and will begin converting our cash access services to a new third party processor beginning in 2014. We anticipate that this conversion will take approximately 12-18 months to complete and our failure to successfully complete this conversion could also result in outages of our cash access services and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property adequately, we may lose a valuable competitive advantage or be forced to incur costly litigation to protect our rights. Our success depends, in part, on developing and protecting our intellectual property. We have entered into license agreements with other parties for intellectual property that is critical to our business. We rely on the terms of these license agreements, as well as copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws to protect our intellectual property. If these agreements expire and we are unable to renew them, we may lose a valuable competitive advantage. We also rely on other confidentiality and contractual agreements and arrangements with our employees, affiliates, business partners and customers to establish and protect our intellectual property and similar proprietary rights. We have also entered into license agreements with other parties for the exclusive use of their technology and intellectual property rights in the gaming industry, such as our license to use portions of the software infrastructure upon which our systems operate from a third party. We rely on these other parties to maintain and protect this technology and the related intellectual property rights. If our licensors fail to protect their intellectual property rights in material that we license and we are unable to protect such intellectual property rights, the value of our licenses may diminish significantly and our business could be significantly harmed. We may have to rely on costly litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights and contractual rights. By pursuing this type of litigation, we become exposed to the risk of counterclaims and the risk that defendants will attempt to invalidate our right to the subject intellectual property or otherwise limit its scope. In addition, we may face claims of infringement that could interfere with our ability to use technology or other intellectual property rights that are material to our business operations. In the event a claim of infringement against us is successful, we may be required to pay royalties to use technology or other intellectual property rights that we had been using or we may be required to enter into a license agreement and pay license fees, or we may be required to stop using the technology or other intellectual property rights that we had been using. We may be unable to obtain necessary licenses from third parties at a reasonable cost or within a reasonable amount of time. Any litigation of this type, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs to us and potentially cause a diversion of our resources. Our business depends on our ability to introduce new, commercially viable products and services in a timely manner. Our product development efforts are based upon a number of complex assumptions, including assumptions relating to gaming patron habits, changes in the popularity and prevalence of certain types of payment 25 Table of Contents methods, anticipated transaction volumes, the costs and time required to bring new products and services to market, and the willingness and ability of both patrons and gaming establishment personnel to use new products and services and bear the economic costs of doing so. Our new products and services may not achieve market acceptance if any of our assumptions are wrong, or for other reasons. Our ability to introduce new products and services may also require regulatory approvals, which may significantly increase the costs associated with developing a new product or service and the time required to introduce a new product or service into the marketplace. In order to obtain these regulatory approvals we may need to modify our products and services which would increase our costs of development and may make our products or services less likely to achieve market acceptance. Our ability to grow our business through the introduction of new products and services depends in part on our joint development activities with third parties over whom we have little or no control. We have engaged in joint development projects with third parties in the past and we expect to continue doing so in the future. Joint development can magnify several risks for us, including the loss of control over development of aspects of the jointly developed products and disputes with our joint venture partners. We may not successfully enter new markets. If, and, as new and developing domestic markets develop, competition among providers of cash access products and services will intensify. If we attempt to enter these markets, we will have to expand our sales and marketing presence. In competitive bidding situations, we may not enjoy the advantage of being the incumbent provider of cash access products and services to gaming establishments and developers and operators of gaming establishments in these new markets may have pre-existing relationships with our competitors. We may also face the uncertainty of compliance with new or developing regulatory regimes (including regulatory regimes relating to Internet gaming) with which we are not currently familiar and oversight by regulators that are not familiar with us or our business. Each of these risks could materially impair our ability to successfully expand our operations into these new and developing domestic markets. Attempting to enter international markets in which we have not previously operated may expose us to political, economic, tax, legal and regulatory risks not faced by businesses that operate only in the United States. The legal and regulatory regimes of foreign markets and their ramifications on our business are less certain. Our international operations will be subject to a variety of risks, including different regulatory requirements and interpretations, trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, higher rates of fraud, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, difficulty in enforcing or interpreting contracts or legislation, political and economic instability and potentially adverse tax consequences. Difficulties in obtaining approvals, licenses or waivers from the monetary and gaming authorities of other jurisdictions, in addition to other potential regulatory and quasi-regulatory issues that we have not yet ascertained, may arise in international jurisdictions into which we attempt to enter. In these new markets, our operations will rely on an infrastructure of financial services and telecommunications facilities that may not be sufficient to support our business needs, such as the authorization and settlement services that are required to implement electronic payment transactions and the telecommunications facilities that would enable us to reliably connect our networks to our products at gaming establishments in these new markets. In these new markets, we may additionally provide services based upon interpretations of applicable law, which interpretation may be subject to regulatory or judicial review. These risks, among others, could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. In connection with our expansion into new international markets, we may forge strategic relationships with business partners to assist us. The success of our expansion into these markets therefore may depend in part upon the success of the business partners with whom we forge these strategic relationships. If we do not successfully form strategic relationships with the right business partners or if we are not able to overcome cultural differences or differences in business practices, our ability to penetrate these new international markets will suffer. 26 Table of Contents We are subject to the risk that the domestic or international markets that we attempt to enter or expand into may not develop as quickly as anticipated, or at all. The development of new gaming markets is subject to political, social, regulatory and economic forces beyond our control. The expansion of gaming activities in new markets can be very controversial and may depend heavily on the support and sponsorship of local government. Changes in government leadership, failure to obtain requisite voter support in referendums, failure of legislators to enact enabling legislation and limitations on the volume of gaming activity that is permitted in particular markets may inhibit the development of new markets. Our estimates of the potential future transaction volumes in new markets are based on a variety of assumptions, which may prove to be inaccurate. To the extent that we overestimate the potential of a new market, incorrectly gauge the timing of the development of a new market, or fail to anticipate the differences between a new market and our existing markets, we may fail in our strategy of growing our business by expanding into new markets. Moreover, if we are unable to meet the needs of our existing customers as they enter markets that we do not currently serve, our relationships with these customers could be harmed. Failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting may lead to our inability to accurately report our financial results. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business, our reputation and the trading price of our stock. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports, our business and operating results could be harmed. Our assessment of our internal control over financial reporting has identified material weaknesses in the past, each of which was subsequently remediated. New material weaknesses may arise in the future. Any material weaknesses could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, cause a decline or volatility in our stock prices, cause a reduction in our credit ratings or tarnish our reputation. Also, increased expenses due to remediation costs and increased regulatory scrutiny are also possible. Failure to identify and remediate future material weakness could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Inadequate internal control over financial reporting could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock and our reputation. We currently operate within the scope of the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations ("COSO") of the Treadway Commission published in 1992. When the 2013 changes, or updates, to this current framework become effective, they could materially impact our internal control over financial reporting and also cause investors to lose confidence in our reporting of financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock and our reputation. Changes by M&C International and First Data to certain of their tax returns may have an impact on the value of a component of our deferred tax asset. In addition, changes in tax laws, regulations and interpretations may adversely affect our business. In connection with a recapitalization and private equity restructuring that occurred in 2004 involving our former owners First Data Corporation ("First Data"), M&C International ("M&C") and entities affiliated with Bank of America, N.A., we recorded a deferred tax asset of $247.0 million. In connection with this deferred tax asset, we expect to pay a significantly lower amount in United States federal income taxes than we provide for in our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income. Our calculation of the starting balance of the deferred tax asset is based upon information we received from M&C and First Data about the gains they recorded in the transaction. If M&C or First Data change their calculation of the gains and file amended tax returns, we may be required to recalculate the starting balance of the deferred tax asset and the annual amortization thereof. 27 Table of Contents Unanticipated changes in applicable income tax rates or laws or changes in our tax position could adversely impact our future results of operations. Our future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax asset as a result of an audit or otherwise. The value of any tax asset may be affected by many factors beyond our control. Our deferred tax asset specifically is subject to various tax laws and the utilization of such deferred tax asset may be subject to limitations and factors beyond our control, including, without limitation, our earnings, our future estimations of earnings and the value of our common stock, and a change of control of the Company. These deferred tax assets may be subject to certain limitations. Additionally, changes in tax laws or interpretations of such laws by domestic and foreign tax authorities could affect our results of operations. A small number of investment funds beneficially control a significant percentage of the voting power of our common stock, which may allow them to significantly influence matters requiring stockholder approval and, in certain cases, may raise conflicts of interest issues. As of December 31, 2013, five investment funds beneficially owned approximately 31% of our common stock as shown in their ownership filings reported in February 2014. Although we have no voting agreements or arrangements with any of the funds, and, to our knowledge, the funds are not affiliated with one another, each of the funds, individually or collectively, could be in a position to substantially influence the outcome of any corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, mergers, acquisitions and other significant corporate transactions. These investment funds may delay, or prevent, a change of control from occurring even if the change of control could appear to benefit the stockholders. These investment funds may also have interests that differ from our other stockholders and may vote in a way with which our other stockholders disagree and which may be adverse to their interests. We operate our business in regions subject to natural disasters. Any interruption to our business resulting from a natural disaster will adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. In the event of a natural disaster, the operations of gaming establishments could be negatively impacted or consumer demand for gaming could decline, or both, and as a result, our business could be interrupted, which will adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Risks related to the industry Economic downturns, a decline in the popularity of gaming or responsible gaming pressures could reduce the number of patrons that use our services or the amounts of cash that they access using our services. We provide our cash access products and related services almost exclusively to gaming establishments for the purpose of enabling their patrons to access cash. As a result, our business depends on consumer demand for gaming. Gaming is a discretionary leisure activity, and participation in discretionary leisure activities has in the past and may in the future decline during economic downturns because consumers have less disposable income. Gaming activity may also decline based on changes in consumer confidence related to general economic conditions or outlook, fears of war, future acts of terrorism, or other factors. A reduction in tourism could also result in a decline in gaming activity. Finally, a legislature or regulatory authority may prohibit or significantly restrict gaming activities in its jurisdiction. Gaming competes with other leisure activities as a form of consumer entertainment and may lose popularity as new leisure activities arise or as other leisure activities become more popular. In addition, gaming in traditional gaming establishments (where we provide our services) competes with Internet-based gaming. The popularity and acceptance of gaming is also influenced by the prevailing social mores and changes in social mores could result in reduced acceptance of gaming as a leisure activity. To the extent that the popularity of gaming in traditional gaming establishments declines as a result of either of these factors, the demand for our cash access services may decline and our business may be harmed. 28 Table of Contents Our ability to sustain our existing customer relationships and establish new customer relationships depends in part on the support of, or lack of opposition from, social responsibility organizations that are dedicated to addressing problem gaming. We may be affected by litigation or lobbying efforts to combat problem gaming because we provide patrons the ability to access their cash in gaming establishments. Changes in consumer willingness to pay a fee to access their funds could reduce the demand for our cash access products and services. Our business depends upon the willingness of patrons to pay a service fee to access their own funds on the premises of a gaming establishment. In most retail environments, consumers typically do not pay an additional fee for using non-cash payment methods such as credit cards, POS debit cards or checks. Gaming patrons could bring more cash with them to gaming establishments, or access cash outside of gaming establishments without paying a fee for the convenience of not having to leave the gaming establishment. To the extent that gaming patrons become unwilling to pay these fees for convenience or lower cost cash access alternatives become available, the demand for cash access services within gaming establishments will decline and our business could suffer. Card associations and EFT networks may change interchange reimbursement rates or network operating fees or assess new fees associated with the processing and settlement of our cash access transactions or otherwise change their operating rules and regulations without our consent and such changes may affect our revenues, cost of revenues (exclusive of depreciation and amortization), net income and our business generally. We receive income from issuers of ATM, credit and debit cards for certain transactions performed on our ATMs related to cash dispensing or certain other non-financial transactions such as balance inquiries. The EFT networks may also charge certain fees related to the performance of these transactions. We refer to the net of this income and fees as reverse interchange. The amount of this reverse interchange income is determined by the card network associations and electronic funds transfer networks, and this income is subject to decrease at their discretion. Several EFT networks that support ATM transactions, including Visa, MasterCard and Star, have implemented changes in their interchange reimbursement structure for ATM transactions that became effective beginning in January 2012 through April 2012. These changes materially reduced the net reimbursement that we received from ATM transactions processed on the respective networks. Contractually, we are allowed to pass these changes on to the substantial majority of our customers, however, certain of our contracts with gaming operators do not enable us to pass through such amounts. If our transaction volumes remain constant and the net reimbursement for ATM transactions is reduced, a material adverse impact on our revenues and operating results may occur. We pay interchange and other network fees for services to the credit card associations and EFT networks that they provide in settling transactions routed through their networks. Collectively we call these charges interchange fees. Subject to the limitations imposed by Federal regulations such as the Durbin Amendment or other regulations that may be enacted, the amounts of these interchange fees are determined based upon the sole discretion of the card associations and EFT networks, and are subject to increase at any time. Although certain of our contracts enable us to pass through increases in interchange or other network processing fees to our customers, competitive pressures might prevent us from passing all or some of these fees through to our customers in the future. To the extent that we are unable to pass through to our customers all or any portion of any increase in interchange or other network processing fees, our cost of revenues (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) would increase and our net income would decrease, assuming no change in transaction volumes. Any such decrease in net income could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. The card associations and EFT networks may also elect to impose new membership fees, or other fees, or implement new rules and regulations with respect to processing transactions through their networks, and 29 Table of Contents any such new fees, rules or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. The provision of our credit card access, POS debit and ATM services are dependent upon our continued sponsorship into the VISA and MasterCard card associations, and the suspension or termination of our sponsorship would result in a material adverse effect on our business. We process virtually all of our credit card cash access, POS debit and ATM service transactions through the VISA and MasterCard card associations both domestically and internationally, and virtually all of the revenue that we derive from our credit card cash access, POS debit and ATM services is dependent upon our continued sponsorship into the VISA and MasterCard associations. We cannot provide these services without sponsorship into the VISA and MasterCard associations by a member financial institution. Our failure to maintain our current sponsorship arrangements or secure alternative sponsorship arrangements into the VISA and MasterCard associations would have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to extensive rules and regulations of card associations, including MasterCard, VISA, and electronic payment networks that are always subject to change, which may harm our business. A substantial portion of our revenues are derived from transactions subject to the extensive rules and regulations of the leading card associations, VISA, and MasterCard. The rules and regulations do not expressly address some of the contexts and settings in which we process cash access transactions, or do so in a manner subject to varying interpretations. As an example, we and certain of our providers must comply with the PCI Data Security Standard. The failure by any of such providers to comply with such standards could result in our being fined or being prohibited from processing transactions through MasterCard, VISA and other card and payment networks. The card associations' and payment networks' rules and regulations are always subject to change, and the card associations or payment networks may modify their rules and regulations from time to time. Our inability to anticipate changes in rules, regulations or the interpretation or application thereof may result in substantial disruption to our business. In the event that the card associations, payment networks or our sponsoring banks determine that the manner in which we process certain types of card transactions is not in compliance with existing rules and regulations, or if the card associations or payment networks adopt new rules or regulations that prohibit or restrict the manner in which we process certain types of card transactions, we may be forced to pay a fine, modify the manner in which we operate our business or stop processing certain types of cash access transactions altogether, any of which could have a material negative impact on our business and operating results. We also process transactions involving the use of the proprietary credit cards such as those offered by Discover Card and American Express as well as other regional cards issued in certain international markets. The rules and regulations of the proprietary credit card networks that service these cards present risks to us that are similar to those posed by the rules and regulations of VISA and MasterCard and payment networks. Our ATM service business is subject to extensive rules and regulations, which may harm our business. Our ATM services are subject to the applicable federal, state and local banking regulations in each jurisdiction in which we operate ATMs, which regulations relate to the imposition of daily limits on the amounts that may be withdrawn from ATMs, the location of ATMs and our ability to surcharge cardholders who use our ATMs and the notices and form of notices that must be disclosed with respect to the fees we charge to patrons in connection with our ATM services. These regulations may impose significant burdens on our ability to operate ATMs profitably in some locations, or at all and our business operating results could be adversely affected. Moreover, because these regulations are subject to change, 30 Table of Contents we may be forced to modify our ATM operations in a manner inconsistent with the assumptions upon which we relied when entering into contracts to provide ATM services at gaming establishments. If federal, state, local or foreign authorities adopt new laws or regulations or raise enforcement levels on existing laws and regulations that make it more difficult for us to operate our ATM business, then our revenues and earnings may be negatively affected. If legislation or regulations are enacted in the future that adversely impact our ATM business, we may be forced to modify our operations in a manner inconsistent with the assumptions upon which we relied when entering into contracts to provide ATMs at gaming establishments; and our business, financial condition and operating results would be harmed. ATMs are subject to requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act which in general require that ATMs be accessible to individuals with disabilities, such as visually-impaired persons. New and stricter regulations under the Americans with Disabilities Act regarding accessibility to ATMs went into effect in March 2013. If we are unable to maintain compliance with these stricter regulations, our business financial condition and operating results could be harmed. We may experience increased capital requirements, accelerated depreciation expense, and asset write-offs in connection with new technology standards being implemented in the U.S. regarding chip-based cards, which could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. In 1994, Europay, MasterCard, and Visa jointly developed new card security features ("EMV") designed to deter fraudulent card transactions related to identity theft, counterfeit cards, and the misuse of lost or stolen cards via enhanced card authentication, transaction authorization, and cardholder verification using chip based smart-cards. EMV has been adopted in many regions of the world as the global standard for fraud deterrence in chip based smart-card payments. The U.S. payments industry has until recently continued to rely on magnetic stripe cards instead of EMV compliant chip based cards, however U.S. card issuers are beginning to offer EMV capable chip based smart cards, and beginning on October 1, 2015, the U.S. payment card industry will begin shifting liability for fraudulent transactions generated through EMV capable cards onto merchants whose devices are not capable of processing chip based smart card EMV transactions. This shifts the responsibility for chargebacks due to fraudulent transactions on such cards from the card issuer onto the merchant. We are classified as a merchant for purposes of our cash access transactions so we must upgrade or replace our existing fleet of U.S. based devices to accept the EMV standard. This requires us to upgrade the software on a significant portion of our currently deployed fleet of U.S. based POS, kiosk and ATM devices. Additionally, we may have to replace a portion of our devices with newer devices equipped with the minimum hardware requirements to support EMV. The costs involved with upgrading our fleet may cause us to incur increased capital expenditures related to device replacement. Additionally, if we fail to comply with these new requirements in time, we will bear the chargeback risk for fraudulent transactions generated through EMV enabled cards, or we may experience a decrease in transaction volume if we cannot process transactions at all for cardholders whose issuer has migrated entirely from magnetic stripe to chip based smart-cards. We are subject to extensive governmental gaming regulation, which may harm our business. We are subject to a variety of regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Most of the gaming regulators in jurisdictions in which we operate distinguish between gaming-related suppliers and vendors, such as manufacturers of slot machine or other gaming devices, and non-gaming suppliers and vendors, such as food and beverage purveyors and construction contractors. In general, in those jurisdictions where we provide cash access and Central Credit services but do not sell or service slot machine ticket redemption devices or jackpot kiosks, we are typically characterized as a non-gaming supplier or vendor and we must obtain a non-gaming supplier's or vendor's license, qualification or approval. The obtaining of 31 Table of Contents these licenses, qualifications or approvals and the regulations imposed on non-gaming suppliers and vendors are typically less stringent than for gaming related suppliers and vendors. However, some of the gaming regulators in jurisdictions in which we do business do not distinguish between gaming-related and non-gaming related suppliers and vendors, and in those jurisdictions we currently are subject to the same stringent licensing, qualification and approval requirements and regulations that are imposed upon vendors and suppliers that would be characterized as gaming-related in other jurisdictions. Such requirements include licensure or finding of suitability for some of our officers, directors and beneficial owners of our securities. If gaming regulatory authorities were to find any such officer, director or beneficial owner unsuitable, or if any such officer, director, or beneficial owner fails to comply with any licensure requirements, we would be required to sever our relationship with that person. Severing our relationship with a person may require such individual to cease providing services to us in any capacity, including as an officer, director, employee or consultant, and to divest himself, herself or itself of all or substantially all equity interests in us, and require us to refrain from conducting any business or maintaining any business relationship with such person or any entity that such person is a director, officer or stockholder of or otherwise affiliated with. Any of the foregoing could be costly to us and materially disruptive of our management and operations. Our failure to sever our relationship with a person in a manner acceptable to the gaming regulatory authorities or at all may result in the loss or denial of licensure or a finding of unsuitability, which loss or denial of licensure or finding of unsuitability by a gaming regulatory authority may prohibit us from continuing to operate in such jurisdiction. Any loss, denial of licensure or finding of unsuitability in any one jurisdiction would likely result in similar adverse regulatory actions in several other jurisdictions, resulting in a domino effect of adverse regulatory actions. The State of Nevada adopted amendments to the Nevada Gaming Control Act, in 2012, with respect to the licensure of cash access providers. In general, these amendments require companies that provide cash access services to gaming establishments within the State of Nevada to obtain and maintain a cash access service provider license from the Nevada Gaming Commission. In general, the licensure requirements for a cash access service provider are substantially similar to those imposed upon applicants for non-restricted gaming licenses. We were granted a cash access service provider license as well as a finding of suitability as a manufacturer and distributor of associated equipment by the Nevada Gaming Commission in March 2012. Our failure to maintain either the cash access service provider license or a finding of suitability from the Nevada Gaming Commission will have a material adverse effect on our business. We are required to obtain and maintain a gaming-related supplier's license in those jurisdictions where we sell and service gaming-related devices. Although we have obtained the necessary gaming related supplier's license in a substantial majority of those jurisdictions where we sell and service slot machine ticket redemption devices and jackpot kiosks, we are currently operating under temporary approvals in some of these jurisdictions. As discussed above, the initial and ongoing licensure requirements imposed on gaming-related suppliers as compared to non-gaming related vendors or suppliers are, in general, substantially more burdensome. Such licensure requirements may include, but are not limited to the following: requiring the licensure or finding of suitability of any of our officers, directors, key employees or beneficial owners of our securities, as well as our key third party vendors, suppliers, customers and other companies with whom we conduct business; the termination or disassociation with such officer, director, key employee or beneficial owner of our securities that fails to file an application or to obtain a license or finding of suitability; the submission of detailed financial and operating reports; the submission of reports of material loans, leases and financing; and, the regulatory approval of some commercial transactions, such as the transfer or pledge of equity interests in the Company. These regulatory burdens are imposed upon gaming-related suppliers or vendors on an ongoing basis and there is no guarantee that we will be successful in obtaining and maintaining all necessary licenses and permits and to continue to hold other necessary gaming licenses and permits to conduct our business in the same manner we do currently. In addition, we also may be required to submit software and other key technology components of our slot machine ticket redemption devices to government or third party gaming laboratories for testing and certification prior to deploying such devices in a particular gaming jurisdiction. 32 Table of Contents Regulatory authorities at the federal, state, local and tribal levels have broad powers with respect to the licensing of gaming-related activities and may revoke, suspend, condition or limit our licenses, impose substantial fines and take other actions against us or the gaming establishments that are our customers, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Any new gaming license or related approval that may be required in the future may not be granted, and our existing licenses may not be renewed or may be revoked, suspended or limited. If additional gaming regulations are adopted in a jurisdiction in which we operate, such regulations could impose restrictions or costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business. From time to time, various proposals are introduced in the legislatures of some of the jurisdictions in which we have existing or planned operations that, if enacted, could adversely affect the tax, regulatory, operational or other aspects of the gaming industry or cash access in the gaming industry. Legislation of this type may be enacted in the future. Some of the new products and services that we may develop cannot be offered in the absence of regulatory approval of the product or service or licensing of us, or both. These approvals could require that we and our officers, directors or ultimate beneficial owners obtain a license or be found suitable and that the product or service be approved after testing and review. We may fail to obtain any such approvals in the future. When contracting with tribal owned or controlled gaming establishments, we become subject to tribal laws and regulations that may differ materially from the non-tribal laws and regulations under which we generally operate. In addition to tribal gaming regulations that may require us to provide disclosures or obtain licenses or permits to conduct our business on tribal lands, we may also become subject to tribal laws that govern our contracts. These tribal governing laws may not provide us with processes, procedures and remedies that enable us to enforce our rights as effectively and advantageously as the processes, procedures and remedies that would be afforded to us under non-tribal laws, or to enforce our rights at all. Many tribal laws permit redress to a tribal adjudicatory body to resolve disputes; however, such redress is largely untested in our experience. We may be precluded from enforcing our rights against a tribal body under the legal doctrine of sovereign immunity. A change in tribal laws and regulations or our inability to obtain required licenses or licenses to operate on tribal lands or enforce our contract rights under tribal law could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Many of the financial services that we provide are subject to extensive rules and regulations, which may harm our business. Our Central Credit gaming patron credit bureau services are subject to the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 and similar state laws. The collection practices that are used by our third party providers and us may be subject to the Fair Debt Collections Practices Act and applicable state laws relating to debt collection. All of our cash access services and patron marketing services are subject to the privacy provisions of state and federal law, including the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. Our POS debit card transactions and ATM withdrawal services are subject to the Electronic Fund Transfer Act. Our ATM services are subject to the applicable state banking regulations in each jurisdiction in which we operate ATMs. Our ATM services may also be subject to state and local regulations relating to the imposition of daily limits on the amounts that may be withdrawn from ATMs, the location of ATMs, our ability to surcharge cardholders who use our ATMs and the notices and form of notices that must be disclosed regarding the provision of our ATM services. The cash access services we provide are subject to recordkeeping and reporting obligations under the Bank Secrecy Act and the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001. We are required to file suspicious activity reports, or SARs, with respect to transactions completed at all gaming establishments at which our cash access services are provided. If we are found to be noncompliant in any way with these laws, we could be subject to substantial civil and criminal penalties. In jurisdictions in which we serve as a check casher or offer our QuikCredit service, we are subject to the applicable state licensing requirements and regulations governing check cashing activities and deferred deposit service providers. We are also subject to various state licensing requirements and regulations governing money transmitters. 33 Table of Contents We are subject to formal or informal audits, inquiries or reviews from time to time by the regulatory authorities that enforce these financial services rules and regulations. In the event that any regulatory authority determines that the manner in which we provide cash access services, patron marketing services, or gaming patron credit bureau services is not in compliance with existing rules and regulations; or the regulatory authorities adopt new rules or regulations that prohibit or restrict the manner in which we provide cash access services, patron marketing services, or gaming patron credit bureau services, then these regulatory authorities may force us to modify the manner in which we operate, or stop processing certain types of cash access transactions, providing patron marketing services or gaming patron credit bureau services altogether. We may also be required to pay substantial penalties and fines if we fail to comply with applicable rules and regulations. For example, if we fail to file CTRs or SARs on a timely basis or if we are found to be noncompliant in any way with either the Bank Secrecy Act or the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, we could be subject to substantial civil and criminal penalties. In addition, our failure to comply with applicable rules and regulations could subject us to private litigation. Consumer privacy laws may change, requiring us to change our business practices or expend significant amounts on compliance with such laws. Our patron marketing and database services depend on our ability to collect and use non-public personal information relating to patrons who use our products and services and the transactions they consummate using our services. We are required by federal and state privacy laws and rules to safeguard and protect the privacy of such information, to make disclosures to patrons regarding our privacy and information sharing policies and, in some cases, to provide patrons an opportunity to "opt out" of the use of their information for certain purposes. The failure or circumvention of the means by which we safeguard and protect the privacy of information we gather may result in the dissemination of non-public personal information, which may harm our reputation and may expose us to liability to the affected individuals and regulatory enforcement proceedings or fines. Regulators reviewing our policies and practices may require us to modify our practices in a material or immaterial manner or impose fines or other penalties if they believe that our policies and practices do not meet the necessary standard. To the extent that our patron-marketing and database services have in the past failed or now or in the future fail to comply with applicable law, our privacy policies or the notices that we provide to patrons, we may become subject to actions by a regulatory authority or patrons which cause us to pay monetary penalties or require us to modify the manner in which we provide patron-marketing and database services. To the extent that patrons exercise their right to "opt out," our ability to leverage existing and future databases of information would be curtailed. Consumer and data privacy laws are evolving, and due to recent high profile thefts and losses of sensitive consumer information from protected databases, such laws may be broadened in their scope and application, impose additional requirements and restrictions on gathering, encrypting and using patron information or narrow the types of information that may be collected or used for marketing or other purposes or require patrons to "opt-in" to the use of their information for specific purposes, or impose additional fines or potentially costly compliance requirements which will hamper the value of our patron-marketing and database services. Our proposed strategy of providing various payment and funding solutions for wager-based online casino and lottery games in the United States is subject to a nascent and uncertain legal and regulatory environment and various business risks typically associated with developing and launching a new product, service or solution. Until late 2011, the Federal government had interpreted the Wire Act to ban all types of online, wager-based casino gaming activity such as online poker. Several states have passed implementing legislation to allow certain intra-state, wager-based, online casino or lottery gaming activity such as online poker based on the United States Department of Justice's recent interpretation in late 2011 that the prohibitions of the Wire Act are limited to sports-related wager-based online gaming or lottery activity. Although these states have adopted implementing legislation authorizing certain wager-based casino or lottery games, the legislative and regulatory environment surrounding online wager-based casino and lottery games in the 34 Table of Contents United States remains uncertain and complex and it is unclear how this legislative and regulatory framework will evolve in the future. Many of these states have yet to introduce or finalize regulations regarding the licensing and operational requirements regarding online, wager-based activity including the licensing and technological requirements relating to the funding and processing of payments relating to online, wager-based casino and lottery gaming activities. Although some online wager-based casino and lottery activities have occurred under this State legislation, it is unclear whether a sustainable Internet gaming market can develop in the United States, absent specific federal legislation governing such activity. In addition, the funding of online casino gaming activity will also be subject to the requirement of the Unlawful Internet Gaming Enforcement Act which may prohibit or significantly impede the funding of online, wager-based gaming activity. This uncertain and evolving legal and regulatory environment may make it difficult to execute on our proposed strategy of providing various payment and funding solutions for online, wager-based casino and lottery games. Our ability to provide such solutions is subject to a variety of business risks associated with launching a new product, service or solution, including, without limitation, our reliance upon third party technology providers, our ability to successfully market and sell such solutions, cost overruns, and our ability to obtain all necessary legal and regulatory approvals to provide such solutions. Risks related to our capital structure Our common stock has been publicly traded since September 2005 and we expect that the price of our common stock will fluctuate substantially. There has been a public market for our common stock since September 2005. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including those described above under "—Risks related to our business," "—Risks related to the industry" and the following: •our failure to maintain our current customers, including because of consolidation in the gaming industry; •increases in commissions paid to gaming establishments as a result of competition; •increases in interchange rates, processing fees or other fees paid by us; •decreases in reverse interchange rates paid to us; •actual or anticipated fluctuations in our or our competitors' revenue, operating results or growth rate; •our inability to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights; •any adverse results in litigation initiated by us or by others against us; •our inability to make payments on our outstanding indebtedness as they become due or our inability to undertake actions that might otherwise benefit us based on the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in the Senior Credit Facility; •the loss, or failure, of a significant supplier or strategic partner to provide the goods or services that we require from them; •our inability to introduce successful, new products and services in a timely manner or the introduction of new products or services by our competitors that reduce the demand for our products and services; •our failure to successfully enter new markets or the failure of new markets to develop in the time and manner that we anticipate; •announcements by our competitors of significant new contracts or contract renewals or of new products or services; 35 Table of Contents •changes in general economic conditions, financial markets, the gaming industry or the payments processing industry; •the trading volume of our common stock; •sales of common stock or other actions by our current officers, directors and stockholders; •acquisitions, strategic alliances or joint ventures involving us or our competitors; •future sales of our common stock or other securities; •the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock or changes in financial estimates or recommendations by analysts; •our failure to meet the revenue, net income or earnings per share estimates of securities analysts or investors; •additions or departures of key personnel; •terrorist acts, theft, vandalism, fires, floods or other natural disasters; and •rumors or speculation as to any of the above which we may be unable to confirm or deny due to disclosure restrictions imposed on us by law or which we otherwise deem imprudent to comment upon. Future sales of our common stock may cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of additional shares of our common stock by us or our stockholders or the perception that these sales could occur. In the future, we may issue additional shares, or options to purchase additional shares, to our employees, directors and consultants, in connection with corporate alliances or acquisitions and in follow-on offerings to raise additional capital. Based on all of these factors, sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. These sales could reduce the market price of our common stock. In addition, future sales of our common stock by our stockholders could make it more difficult for us to sell additional shares of our common stock or other securities in the future. Changing conditions could impact our stock repurchase program. In October 2012, our Board of Directors authorized a new share repurchase program of up to $40.0 million during a two year period. The repurchase program authorizes us to buy our common stock from time to time through open market, privately negotiated or other transactions, including pursuant to trading plans established in accordance with Rules 10b5-1 and 10b-18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or by a combination of such methods. The share repurchase program is subject to prevailing market conditions and other considerations and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. In addition, we may not utilize the entire amount approved by the Board of Directors. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may delay or prevent transactions that many stockholders may favor. Some provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have the effect of delaying, discouraging, or preventing a merger or acquisition that our stockholders may consider favorable or a change in our management or our Board of Directors. These provisions: •divide our Board of Directors into three separate classes serving staggered three-year terms, which will have the effect of requiring at least two annual stockholder meetings instead of one, to replace a 36 Table of Contents majority of our directors, which could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control or management; •provide that special meetings of stockholders can only be called by our Board of Directors, Chairman of the Board or Chief Executive Officer. In addition, the business permitted to be conducted at any special meeting of stockholders is limited to the business specified in the notice of such meeting to the stockholders; •provide for an advance notice procedure with regard to business to be brought before a meeting of stockholders which may delay or preclude stockholders from bringing matters before a meeting of stockholders or from making nominations for directors at a meeting of stockholders, which could delay or deter takeover attempts or changes in management; •eliminate the right of stockholders to act by written consent so that all stockholder actions must be effected at a duly called meeting; •provide that directors may only be removed for cause with the approval of stockholders holding a majority of our outstanding voting stock; •provide that vacancies on our Board of Directors may be filled by a majority, although less than a quorum, of directors in office and that our Board of Directors may fix the number of directors by resolution; •allow our Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock with rights senior to those of the common stock and that otherwise could adversely affect the rights and powers, including voting rights and the right to approve or not to approve an acquisition or other change in control, of the holders of common stock, without any further vote or action by the stockholders; and •do not provide for cumulative voting for our directors, which may make it more difficult for stockholders owning less than a majority of our stock to elect any directors to our Board of Directors. In addition, we are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which provides, subject to enumerated exceptions, that if a person acquires 15% or more of our voting stock, the person is an "interested stockholder" and may not engage in "business combinations" with us for a period of three years from the time the person acquired 15% or more of our voting stock. These provisions may have the effect of entrenching our management team and may deprive our stockholders of the opportunity to sell shares to potential acquirers at a premium over prevailing prices. This potential inability to obtain a premium could reduce the price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 