RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risks together with all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those we currently view as immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited to, the risk factors set forth below (See—Special Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements). FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE OPERATING RESULTS Risks Relating to Our Business Cigarette and consumable goods distribution is a low-margin business sensitive to economic conditions. We derive most of our revenues from the distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, candy, snacks, fast food, grocery products, non-alcoholic beverages, general merchandise and health and beauty care products. 10 Table of Contents Our industry is characterized by a high volume of sales with relatively low profit margins. Our non-cigarette sales are at prices that are based on the cost of the product plus a percentage markup. As a result, our profit levels may be negatively impacted during periods of cost deflation for these products, even though our gross profit as a percentage of the price of goods sold may remain relatively constant. Periods of product cost inflation may also have a negative impact on our profit margins and earnings with respect to sales of cigarettes. Gross profit on cigarette sales are generally fixed on a cents per carton basis. Therefore, as cigarette prices increase, gross profit generally decreases as a percent of sales. In addition, if the cost of the cigarettes that we purchase increase due to manufacturer price increases or increases in applicable excise tax rates, our inventory costs and accounts receivable could rise. To the extent that product cost increases are not passed on to our customers due to their resistance to higher prices, our profit margins and earnings could be negatively impacted. The consumable goods distribution industry is sensitive to national and regional economic conditions. Inflation, fuel costs and other factors affecting consumer confidence generally may negatively impact our sales. Our operating results are also sensitive to, and may be adversely affected by, other factors, including difficulties with the collectability of accounts receivable, competitive price pressures, severe weather conditions and unexpected increases in fuel or other transportation-related costs. Due to the low- margins on the products we distribute, changes in general economic conditions could materially adversely affect our operating results. Our sales volume is largely dependent upon the distribution of cigarette products, sales of which are declining. The distribution of cigarette and other tobacco products is currently a significant portion of our business. For the year ended December 31, 2005, approximately 72% of our revenues came from the distribution of cigarettes. During the same period, approximately 35% of our gross profit was generated from cigarettes. Due to increases in the prices of cigarettes and other tobacco products, restrictions on advertising and promotions by cigarette manufacturers, increases in cigarette regulation and excise taxes, health concerns, increased pressure from anti-tobacco groups and other factors, the U.S. and Canadian cigarette and tobacco market has generally been declining, and is expected to continue to decline. Notwithstanding the general decline in consumption, we have benefited from a shift of cigarette and tobacco sales to convenience stores. However, this favorable trend may not continue and may reverse. Legislation and other matters are negatively affecting the cigarette and tobacco industry. The tobacco industry is subject to a wide range of laws and regulations regarding the advertising, sale, taxation and use of tobacco products imposed by local, state, federal and foreign governments. Various state and provincial governments have adopted or are considering legislation and regulations restricting displays and advertising of tobacco products, establishing fire safety standards for cigarettes, raising the minimum age to possess or purchase tobacco products, requiring the disclosure of ingredients used in the manufacture of tobacco products, imposing restrictions on public smoking, restricting the sale of tobacco products directly to consumers or other unlicensed recipients over the Internet, and other tobacco product regulation. For example, in British Colombia, Canada, legislation was adopted authorizing the provincial government to seek recovery of tobacco-related health care costs from the tobacco industry and a lawsuit under such legislation is underway. Other states and provinces may adopt similar legislation and initiate similar lawsuits. In addition, cigarettes are subject to substantial excise taxes in the United States and Canada. Significant increases in cigarette-related taxes have been proposed or enacted and are likely to continue to be proposed or enacted within the United States and Canada. These tax increases are likely to continue to have an adverse impact on sales of cigarettes due to lower consumption levels or sales outside of legitimate channels. 11 Table of Contents In the United States, we purchase cigarettes primarily from manufacturers covered by the tobacco industry’s Master Settlement Agreement (or MSA), which results in our facing certain financial risks including competition from lower priced sales of cigarettes produced by manufacturers who do not participate in the Master Settlement Agreement. In June 1994, the Mississippi attorney general brought an action against various tobacco industry members. This action was brought on behalf of the state to recover state funds paid for health-care, medical and other assistance to state citizens suffering from diseases and conditions allegedly related to tobacco use. Most other states, through their attorneys general or other state agencies, sued the major U.S. cigarette manufacturers based on similar theories. The cigarette manufacturer defendants settled the first four of these cases scheduled for trial—Mississippi, Florida, Texas and Minnesota—by separate agreements between each state and those manufacturers in each case. These states are referred to as non-MSA states. In November 1998, the major U.S. tobacco product manufacturers entered into the MSA with the other 46 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, American Samoa and the Northern Marianas to settle asserted and unasserted health care cost recovery and other claims. The MSA and the other state settlement agreements: settled all health-care cost recovery actions brought by, or on behalf of, the settling jurisdictions; released the major U.S. cigarette manufacturers from various additional present and potential future claims relating to past conduct arising out of the use, sale, distribution, manufacture, development, advertising, marketing or health effects of, the exposure to, or research, statements or warnings about, tobacco products; settled all monetary claims relating to future conduct arising out of the use of, or exposure to, tobacco products that have been manufactured in the ordinary course of business; imposed a stream of future payment obligations on major U.S. cigarette manufacturers; and placed significant restrictions on their ability to market and sell cigarettes. The payments required under the MSA result in the products sold by the participating manufacturers to be priced at higher levels than non-MSA manufacturers. In order to limit our potential tobacco related liabilities, we do not purchase cigarettes from non-MSA manufacturers for sale in MSA states. The benefits of the MSA do not apply to sales of cigarettes manufactured by non-MSA manufacturers. Competition among cigarette manufacturers for cigarette sales is primarily based on brand positioning, price, product attributes, consumer loyalty, promotions, advertising and retail presence. Cigarette brands produced by the major tobacco product manufacturers generally require competitive pricing, substantial marketing support, retail programs and other financial incentives to maintain or improve a brand’s market position. Increased selling prices and higher cigarette taxes have resulted in the growth of deep-discount brands. Deep-discount brands are brands manufactured by companies that are not original participants to the MSA, and accordingly, do not have cost structures burdened with MSA-related payments to the same extent as the original participating manufacturers. Historically, major tobacco product manufacturers have had a competitive advantage in the United States because significant cigarette marketing restrictions and the scale of investment required to compete made gaining consumer awareness and trial of new brands difficult. However, since the MSA was signed in November 1998, the category of deep-discount brands manufactured by smaller manufacturers or supplied by importers has grown substantially. As a result of purchasing premium and discount cigarettes for sale in MSA states exclusively from manufacturers that are parties to the MSA, we are adversely impacted by sales of brands from non-MSA manufacturers and deep-discount brand growth. We believe that small manufacturers, not subject to the MSA, of deep-discount brands have steadily increased their combined market share of cigarette sales. The premium and discount cigarettes subject to the MSA that we sell have been negatively impacted by widening price gaps in the prices between those brands and the deep-discount brands for the past several years. The growth in market share of the deep-discount brands since the MSA was signed in 1998 has had an adverse impact on the volume of the cigarettes that we sell. As a result, our operations may be negatively impacted as sales volumes of premium cigarettes and the other tobacco products erode. 12 Table of Contents We also face competition from illicit and other low priced sales of cigarettes. We also face competition from the diversion into the United States market of cigarettes intended for sale outside the United States, the sale of counterfeit cigarettes by third parties, the sale of cigarettes in non-taxable jurisdictions, inter-state and international smuggling of cigarettes, increased imports of foreign low priced brands, the sale of cigarettes by third parties over the Internet and by other means designed to avoid collection of applicable taxes. The competitive environment has been characterized by a continued influx of cheap products that challenge sales of higher priced and taxed cigarettes manufactured by parties to the MSA. Increased sales of counterfeit cigarettes, sales by third parties over the internet, or sales by means to avoid the collection of applicable taxes, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. If the tobacco industry’s master settlement agreement is invalidated, or tobacco manufacturers cannot meet their obligations to indemnify us, we could be subject to substantial litigation liability. In connection with the MSA, we are indemnified by the tobacco product manufacturers from which we purchase cigarettes and other tobacco products for liabilities arising from our sale of the tobacco products that they supply to us. To date, litigation challenging the validity of the MSA, including claims that the MSA violates antitrust laws, has not been successful. However, if such litigation were to be successful and the MSA is invalidated, we could be subject to substantial litigation due to our sales of cigarettes and other tobacco products, and we may not be indemnified for such costs by the tobacco product manufacturers in the future. In addition, even if we continue to be indemnified by cigarette manufacturers that are parties to the MSA, future litigation awards against such cigarette manufacturers and us could be so large as to eliminate the ability of the manufacturers to satisfy their indemnification obligations. Our results of operations could be negatively impacted due to increased litigation costs and potential adverse rulings against us. Cigarettes and other tobacco products are subject to substantial excise taxes and if these taxes are increased, our sales of cigarettes and other tobacco products could decline. Cigarettes and tobacco products are subject to substantial excise taxes in the United States and Canada. Significant increases in cigarette-related taxes and/or fees have been proposed or enacted and are likely to continue to be proposed or enacted within the United States and Canada. These tax increases are expected to continue to have an adverse impact on sales of cigarettes due to lower consumption levels and a shift in sales from the premium to the non-premium or discount cigarette segments or to sales outside of legitimate channels. In addition, state and local governments may require us to prepay for excise tax stamps placed on packages of cigarettes and other tobacco products that we sell. If these excise taxes are substantially increased, it could have a negative impact on our liquidity. Accordingly, we may be required to obtain additional debt financing, which we may not be able to obtain on satisfactory terms or at all. Our inability to prepay the excise taxes may prevent or delay our purchase of cigarettes and other tobacco products, which could materially adversely affect our ability to supply our customers. We face competition in our distribution markets and if we are unable to compete effectively in any distribution market, we may lose market share and suffer a decline in sales. Our distribution centers operate in highly competitive markets. We face competition from local, regional and national tobacco and consumable products distributors on the basis of service, price and variety of products offered, schedules and reliability of deliveries, and the range and quality of services provided. Some of our competitors, including a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., McLane Company, Inc., the largest convenience wholesale distributor in the U.S., have substantial financial resources and long standing customer relationships. In addition, heightened competition among our existing competitors or by new entrants into the distribution market could create additional competitive pressures that may reduce our margins and 13 Table of Contents adversely affect our business. If we fail to successfully respond to these competitive pressures or to implement our strategies effectively, we may lose market share and our results of operations could suffer. If the costs to us of the products we distribute increase, or excise stamp taxes increase, and we cannot pass these increases on to our customers, our results of operations could be adversely affected. It we cannot pass along to our customers increases in our cost of goods sold which we experience when manufacturers or taxing authorities increase prices or taxes invoiced or reduce or eliminate discounts, rebates, allowances and other incentive programs, our profit margins could erode. Our industry is characterized by a high volume of sales with relatively low profit margins. If we cannot pass along cost increases to our customers due to resistance to higher prices, our relatively narrow profit margins and earnings could be negatively affected. We rely on funding from manufacturer discounts, rebates, allowances and incentives programs and cigarette excise stamping allowances and material changes in these programs could adversely affect our results of operations. We receive payments from the manufacturers of the products we distribute for allowances, discounts, volume rebates, and other merchandising incentives in connection with various incentive programs. These payments are a substantial benefit to us and the amount and timing of these payments are affected by changes in the programs by the manufacturers, our ability to sell specified volumes of a particular product or attaining specified levels of purchases by our customers, and the duration of carrying a specified product. In addition, we receive discounts from states in connection with the purchase of excise stamps for cigarettes. If the manufacturers or states change or discontinue these programs or we are unable to maintain the volume of our sales, our results of operations could be negatively affected. We are dependent on the convenience store industry for our revenues, and our results of operations would suffer if there is an overall decline in the convenience store industry. The majority of our sales are made under purchase orders and short-term contracts with convenience stores which inherently involve significant risks. These risks include the uncertainty of general economic conditions in the convenience store industry, credit exposure from our customers and termination of customer relationships without notice, consolidation of our customer base, and consumer movement toward purchasing from club stores. Any of these factors could negatively affect the convenience store industry which would negatively affect our results of operations. Some of our distribution centers are dependent on a few relatively large customers, and our failure to maintain our relationships with these customers could substantially harm our business and prospects. Some of our distribution centers are dependent on relationships with a single customer or a few customers, and we expect our reliance on these relationships to continue for the foreseeable future. Any termination or non-renewal of customer relationships could severely and adversely affect the revenues generated by certain of our distribution centers. For example, in connection with Fleming’s bankruptcy, our customer relationships with Target and K-Mart were terminated resulting in a significant loss of revenue and the closure of four distribution centers located in the Eastern United States. Any future termination, non-renewal or reduction in services that we provide to these select customers would cause our revenues to decline and our operating results would be harmed. If we are not able to attract new customers, our results of operations could suffer. Increasing the growth and profitability of our distribution business is particularly dependent upon our ability to retain existing customers and capture additional distribution customers. The ability to capture additional customers through our existing network of distribution centers is especially important because it enables us to 14 Table of Contents leverage our distribution centers and other fixed assets. Our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers is dependent upon our ability to provide industry-leading customer service, offer competitive products at low prices, maintain high levels of productivity and efficiency in distributing products to our customers while integrating new customers into our distribution system, and offer marketing, merchandising and ancillary services that provide value to our customers. If we are unable to execute these tasks effectively, we may not be able to attract a significant number of new customers and our existing customer base could decrease, either or both of which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We may not be able to borrow the additional capital to provide us with sufficient liquidity and capital resources necessary to meet our future financial obligations. We expect that our principal sources of funds will be cash generated from our operations and, if necessary, borrowings under our $250 million 2005 Credit Facility. While we believe our sources of liquidity are adequate, we cannot assure you that these sources will provide us with sufficient liquidity and capital resources required to meet our future financial obligations, or to provide funds for our working capital, capital expenditures and other needs for the foreseeable future. We may require additional equity or debt financing to meet our working capital requirements or to fund our capital expenditures. We may not be able to obtaining financing on terms satisfactory to us, or at all. We depend on relatively few suppliers for a large portion of our products, and any interruptions in the supply of the products that we distribute could adversely affect our results of operations. We obtain the products we distribute from third party suppliers. At December 31, 2005, we had approximately 3,800 vendors, and during 2005 we purchased approximately 51% of our products from our top 20 suppliers, with our top two suppliers, Philip Morris and R. J. Reynolds, representing approximately 26% and 15% of our purchases, respectively. We do not have any long-term contracts with our suppliers committing them to provide products to us. Although our purchasing volume can provide leverage when dealing with suppliers, suppliers may not provide the products we distribute in the quantities we request or on favorable terms. Because we do not control the actual production of the products we distribute, we are also subject to delays caused by interruption in production based on conditions outside our control. These conditions include job actions or strikes by employees of suppliers, inclement weather, transportation interruptions, and natural disasters or other catastrophic events. Our inability to obtain adequate supplies of the products we distribute as a result of any of the foregoing factors or otherwise, could cause us to fail to meet our obligations to our customers. We may be subject to product liability claims which could materially adversely affect our business. Core-Mark, as with other distributors of food and consumer products, faces the risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of products sold by us causes injury or illness. With respect to product liability claims, we believe that we have sufficient liability insurance coverage and indemnities from manufacturers. However, product liability insurance may not continue to be available at a reasonable cost, or, if available, may not be adequate to cover all of our liabilities. We generally seek contractual indemnification and insurance coverage from parties supplying the products we distribute, but this indemnification or insurance coverage is limited, as a practical matter, to the creditworthiness of the indemnifying party and the insured limits of any insurance provided by suppliers. If we do not have adequate insurance or if contractual indemnification is not available or if the counterparty can not fulfill its indemnification obligation, product liability relating to defective products could materially adversely impact our results of operations. We depend on our senior management and key personnel. We substantially depend on the continued services and performance of our senior management and other key personnel, particularly J. Michael Walsh, our President and Chief Executive Officer. We do not maintain key person life insurance policies on these individuals or any of our other executive officers, and we do not have 15 Table of Contents employment agreements with any of our executive officers. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or key employees could harm our business. We operate in a competitive labor market and a portion of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Our continued success will partly depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. We compete with other businesses in each of our markets with respect to attracting and retaining qualified employees. A shortage of qualified employees could require us to enhance our wage and benefits packages in order to compete effectively in the hiring and retention of qualified employees or to hire more expensive temporary employees. In addition, at December 31, 2005 approximately 6%, or approximately 220, of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with labor organizations, which expire at various times over the course of the next two years. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew our respective collective bargaining agreements on favorable terms, that employees at other facilities will not unionize, that our labor costs will not increase, that we will be able to recover any increases in labor costs through increased prices charged to customers or that we will not suffer business interruptions as a result of strikes or other work stoppages. If we fail to attract and retain qualified employees, to control our labor costs, or to recover any increased labor costs through increased prices charged to our customers or offsets by productivity gains, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our revenues and financial results. We generate a significant portion of our revenues in Canadian dollars, approximately 21% in 2005. We also incur a significant portion of our expenses, in Canadian dollars. To the extent that we are unable to match revenues received in Canadian dollars with costs paid in the same currency, exchange rate fluctuations in Canadian dollars could have an adverse effect on our revenues and financial results. During times of a strengthening U.S. dollar, our reported sales and earnings from our Canadian operations will be reduced because the Canadian currency will be translated into fewer U.S. dollars. Prior to August 23, 2004, we did not reflect foreign currency transaction gains or losses in our results of operations because these intercompany balances were determined to be of a permanent nature. After August 23, 2004 because such intercompany balances began fluctuating and the balances were determined to be of a trading nature. GAAP requires that such foreign currency transaction gains or losses on intercompany transactions be recorded as a gain or loss within the income statement. To the extent we incur losses on such transactions our net income and earnings per share will be reduced. We are subject to governmental regulation and if we are unable to comply with regulations that affect our business or if there are substantial changes in these regulations, our business could be adversely affected. As a distributor of food products, we are subject to the regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. In addition, our employees operate tractor trailers, trucks, forklifts and various other powered material handling equipment. Our operations are also subject to regulation by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Department of Transportation, Drug Enforcement Agency and other federal, state and local agencies. Each of these regulatory authorities have broad administrative powers with respect to our operations. If we fail to adequately comply with government regulations or regulations become more stringent, we could experience increased inspections, regulatory authorities could take remedial action including imposing fines or shutting down our operations or we could be subject to increased compliance costs. If any of these events were to occur, our results of operations would be adversely affected. Earthquake and natural disaster damage could have a material adverse affect on our business. We are headquartered in, and conduct a significant portion of our operations in, California. Our operations in California are susceptible to damage from earthquakes. In addition, two of our data centers are located in 16 Table of Contents California and Oregon and may be susceptible to damage in the event of an earthquake. We believe that we maintain adequate insurance to indemnify us for losses. However, significant earthquake damage could result in losses in excess of our insurance coverage which would materially adversely affect our results of operations. We also have operations in areas that have been affected by natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornados, flooding, ice and snow storms. While we maintain insurance to indemnify us for losses due to such occurrences, our insurance may not be sufficient or payments under our policies may not be received timely enough to prevent adverse impacts on our business. Our customers could also be affected by like events, adversely impacting our sales. Our information technology systems may be subject to failure or disruptions, which could seriously harm our business. Our business is highly dependent on our Distribution Center Management System, or DCMS. The convenience store industry does not have a standard information technology, or IT platform. Therefore, actively integrating our customers into our IT platform is a priority, and our DCMS platform provides our distribution centers with the flexibility to adapt to our customers’ IT requirements. We also rely on our DCMS, and our internal information technology staff, to maintain the information required to operate our distribution centers and provide our customers with fast, efficient and reliable deliveries. While we have taken steps to increase redundancy in our IT systems, if our DCMS fails or is subject to disruptions, we may suffer disruptions in service to our customers and our results of operations could suffer. Risks Relating to Our Recent Reorganization We are guarantors of certain payments pursuant to the Plan of Reorganization. Pursuant to the Plan, two special purpose trusts, the Post Confirmation Trust, or PCT, and the Reclamation Creditor’s Trust, or RCT, were established. We refer to the PCT and the RCT collectively as the Trusts. The Trusts are charged with administering certain responsibilities under the Plan, including liquidating certain assets, the pursuit and collection of litigation claims and causes of action and the reconciliation and payment of specific types of claims including trade lien vendor claims, or TLV claims, each as allocated between the PCT and the RCT pursuant to the Plan. Under the terms of the Plan, we guarantee the payment of PCT administrative claims in excess of $56 million. In addition, if the assets of the RCT are inadequate to satisfy all of the allowed TLV claims, we must pay such claims in full plus any accrued interest. We also guarantee all eligible but unpaid non-TLV claims up to a maximum of $15 million. The Plan limits the combined guarantee amounts of the RCT TLV and non-TLV claims to not greater than $137 million. To the extent that are we are required to fund amounts under the guarantees, our results of operations and our liquidity and capital resources could be materially adversely affected. In addition, we may not have sufficient cash reserves to pay the amounts required under the guarantees when they become due. The Fleming bankruptcy has negatively affected some of our relationships with customers, suppliers and employees and our results of operations and may continue to negatively affect such relationships and our results of operations. We estimate that the former Fleming convenience distribution centers, which included Core-Mark International and seven Fleming distribution centers, lost approximately $1.2 billion in annualized sales after Fleming’s Chapter 11 filing, with approximately $360 million of such lost sales attributable to four closed distribution centers located in the Eastern United States and the balance attributable to the distribution centers now comprising Core-Mark. We cannot predict accurately or quantify the additional effects, if any, that the bankruptcy may continue to have on our operations. 17 Table of Contents Our operating flexibility is limited in significant respects by the restrictive covenants in our 2005 Credit Facility. Our 2005 Credit Facility imposes restrictions on us that could increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions by limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and industry. Specifically, these restrictions limit our ability, among other things, to: incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends and make distributions, issue stock of subsidiaries, make investments, repurchase stock, create liens, enter into transactions with affiliates, merge or consolidate, or transfer and sell our assets. In addition, under our 2005 Credit Facility, we are required to meet certain financial ratios and tests. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by factors beyond our control. If we breach any of these covenants or restrictions, it could result in an event of default under our 2005 Credit Facility, which would permit our lenders to declare all amounts incurred thereunder to be immediately due and payable, and our lenders under our 2005 Credit Facility could terminate their commitments to make further extensions of credit under our 2005 Credit Facility. Our reorganization valuation is based in part on estimates of future performance. If our estimates are not accurate, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Our financial statements reflect the adoption of American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Statement of Position 90-7, or SOP 90-7. In accordance with fresh-start accounting under SOP 90-7, all assets and liabilities were recorded at their respective fair values on the Effective Date of the Plan, August 23, 2004 These fair values represent our best estimates and are based on independent valuations where applicable. To calculate the fair value of our assets, or reorganization value as defined in SOP 90-7, on the effective date of the Plan, financial projections were prepared and the fair value of assets as well as our enterprise value was determined using various valuation methods based on these financial projections. The estimated enterprise value used for portions of this valuation analysis is highly dependent upon our achieving the future financial results set forth in the projections as well as the realization of certain other assumptions, which are not guaranteed. SOP 90-7 requires that the reorganization value be allocated to the assets in conformity with FASB Statement No. 141, Business Combinations (SFAS No. 141). Although we allocated our reorganization value among our assets in accordance with SFAS No. 141, our allocations were based on assumptions. Accordingly, these allocations are estimates only. Subsequent changes, if any, will be reflected in our operating results. The valuation, insofar as it relates to the enterprise value, necessarily assumes that we will achieve the estimates of future operating results in all material respects. If these results are not achieved, the resulting values could be materially different from our estimates, and the trading price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Our tax treatment of the reorganization may not be accepted by the IRS, which could result in increased tax liabilities. Deferred tax assets and liabilities as reflected at August 23, 2004 in connection with the application of fresh-start accounting are based on management’s best estimate of the tax filing position that is probable of being accepted by the applicable taxing authorities. The Company intends to take an alternative position on its tax returns. Based on this alternative tax filing position, the Company has taken deductions on its tax returns that could be challenged by the taxing authorities. Although management believes that the Company’s tax filing position will more likely than not be sustained in the event of an examination by applicable taxing authorities and we would contest any proposed adjustment vigorously, the outcome of such matters can not be predicted with certainty. As such, the Company has accrued approximately $3.9 million in other tax liabilities on the accompanying December 31, 2005 consolidated balance sheet for this eventuality. 18 Table of Contents Risks Relating to an Investment in Our Common Stock Approximately 2.3 million of our outstanding shares held by Fleming have yet to be distributed pursuant to the Plan and additional shares will be issued pursuant to the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan. Pursuant to the Plan, we issued an aggregate of 9.8 million shares of our common stock to Fleming. As of December 31, 2005, 7.5 million shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase 1.2 million shares of our common stock have been distributed by Fleming pursuant to the Plan. An aggregate of 2.3 million shares of our common stock are subject to future distribution pursuant to the Plan by Fleming. Future distributions of the remaining 2.3 million shares of common stock pursuant to the Plan by Fleming are at the discretion of the Post Confirmation Trust (PCT) and the bankruptcy court and are not in our control. In addition, as of December 31, 2005, restricted stock units, restricted stock and options issued pursuant to our stock incentive plans relating to 1.4 million shares of our common stock were outstanding. In February 2005, our board of directors adopted our 2005 Long Term Incentive Plan, or the 2005 Plan, and authorized the grant of restricted stock units under the 2005 Plan to be allocated by our Chief Executive Officer among our employees in proportion to grants made under the 2004 Plan. The number of shares of our common stock issuable under the 2005 Plan is limited to a number of shares having a market value of $5.5 million, based on the average closing price of our common stock over the eleventh through twentieth trading days following the date that our common stock becomes listed for quotation on the NASDAQ National Market. This average closing price was established in December 2005 and was determined to be $32.201. In February 2005, the Compensation Committee and the Board of Directors approved the grant of restricted stock units having a value of approximately $5.0 million with a vesting commencement date of February 1, 2005. Using the established share price of $32.201 the number of shares issued was 153,455. The Board of Directors determined that the balance of approximately $0.5 million available for grants under the 2005 Plan should be reserved for possible future issuance. The distribution of a significant amount of shares of common stock onto the market or the sale of a substantial number of shares at any given time could result in a decline in the price of our common stock, cause dilution, or increase volatility. We may not be able to obtain the required approval of holders of shares of our common stock for certain actions as our largest shareholder, Fleming, may not be permitted by the bankruptcy court or may choose not to vote any undistributed shares. As of December 31, 2005, only 7.5 million shares, or approximately 77%, of our outstanding common stock has been distributed by Fleming under the Plan. Fleming holds the balance of the 9.8 million shares of our common stock to be distributed pursuant to the Plan, and without bankruptcy court approval, Fleming may not be permitted to attend a meeting of our stockholders for purposes of establishing a quorum for a stockholders meeting or to vote its shares of our common stock. Therefore, we may not be able to effect certain corporate actions that require the approval of our stockholders. The failure to take such stockholder actions could have a material adverse affect on us and our operations. We have identified eleven material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. If we fail to remedy these or any other material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting that we may identify, such failure could result in material misstatements in our financial statements, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. A material weakness is defined in standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board as a deficiency in internal control over financial reporting that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. As 19 Table of Contents discussed below in “Item 9.A. Controls and Procedures,” we have identified eleven material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting consisting of failures to: (i) maintain an effective control environment and a failure by management to extend the necessary rigor and commitment to disclosure controls and procedures, (ii) maintain effective controls over the financial reporting process due to an insufficient complement of personnel with an appropriate level of accounting knowledge, experience and training in the application of generally accepted accounting principles commensurate with the company’s financial reporting requirements and the complexity of the company’s operations and transactions, (iii) maintain effective controls to ensure the adequacy of debt discount and debt issuance costs, (iv) maintain effective controls to ensure the appropriate classification and presentation of deferred stock-based compensation within stockholders’ equity, (v) maintain effective controls to ensure the accurate preparation and review of the cash flow statement, (vi) maintain effective controls to ensure the appropriate classification and presentation of accounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements, (vii) maintain effective controls to ensure there is adequate analysis, documentation, reconciliation, and review of accounting records and supporting data, (viii) maintain effective controls to ensure the appropriate valuation of insurance related contracts, (ix) maintain effective controls over the recording of journal entries to account for management fee contract amendments, (x) maintain effective controls over the accuracy of amounts subject to estimation with respect to other receivables, inventory, deposits and prepayments, other non-current assets, accrued liabilities, cost of sales and operating expenses, (xi) maintain effective controls over the accurate preparation, recording, and review of foreign exchange translation adjustments. In order to address these material weaknesses, on March 23, 2006 our audit committee directed management to formulate an enhancement, with the assistance of an outside consultant, to our remediation plan initially approved by the audit committee following the identification of material weaknesses in connection with finalizing our third quarter 2005 results. However, we have yet to develop such an enhanced remediation plan nor implement it. If we fail to remediate these material weaknesses or any other material weaknesses we may identify, such failure could result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Due to our need to engage a successor independent registered public accounting firm as a result of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP’s decision to decline to stand for re-election as our independent registered public accounting firm upon completion of the audit of our financial statements for fiscal 2005, we may be unable to file our first quarter 2006 Form 10-Q within the required filing period which may impact adversely our eligibility to remain listed on NASDAQ. We are in the process of seeking to engage a new independent registered public accounting firm. If we are not able to engage a new independent registered public accounting firm on a timely basis to review our financial statements for the first quarter of 2006, we may need to delay the release of our earnings for the first quarter of 20 Table of Contents 2006 and the filing of our Form 10-Q for such quarter. Such delays, coupled with the material weaknesses we have identified in our internal controls over financial reporting and the fact that we have not yet implemented a remediation plan to address the material weaknesses, could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. In addition, the inability to file our Form 10-Q for the first quarter of 2005 on a timely basis could adversely impact our eligibility to remain listed on the NASDAQ stock market. We will incur significant costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we will incur significant accounting, legal, governance, compliance and other expenses that private companies do not incur. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the NASDAQ Stock Market, have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. We expect these rules and regulations to increase our legal, audit and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, as a result of becoming a public company, we are required to create additional board committees and adopt policies regarding internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures. In addition, we will incur additional costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. We also expect these rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. We may be unable to meet our obligation to conform to the rules adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are engaged in the process of assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in connection with the rules adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 is required in connection with the filing of our annual Report on Form 10-K of the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006. While our management is expending significant resources in an effort to complete this important project, there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve our objective on a timely basis. There also can be no assurance that our auditors will be able to issue an unqualified opinion on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Any failure to complete our assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, to remediate the eleven material weaknesses we have identified or any other material weaknesses that we may identify or to implement new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure also could adversely affect the results of the periodic management evaluations of our internal control over financial reporting that are required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Inadequate internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. ITEM 1.B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 21 Table of Contents 