Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II Item 5. Market for the Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 2 PART I Some statements in, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K (this “Report”) may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). All statements other than historical facts contained in this report, including statements regarding our future financial position, business policy and plans and objectives and expectations of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. The words “believe,” “may,” “could,” “estimate,” “continue,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “expect,” “plan,” “project” and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. We have based these forward-looking statements largely on our current expectations and projections about future events, including, among other things: implementation of our growth strategy; our ability to anticipate and respond to fashion trends; competition in our markets; consumer spending patterns; actions of our competitors or anchor tenants in the strip shopping centers where our stores are located; and anticipated fluctuations in our operating results. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including those described in Item 1A Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Report and the other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including our reports on Form 8-K and Form 10-Q, and any amendments thereto. Because forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, some of which cannot be predicted or quantified, you should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. The events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements may not be achieved or occur and actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of such statements. Except as required by applicable law, including the securities laws of the United States and the rules and regulations of the SEC, we do not plan to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements contained in this Report, whether as a result of any new information, future events or otherwise. Information is provided herein with respect to our operations related to our fiscal years ended on February 3, 2007 (“fiscal 2006”), January 28, 2006 (“fiscal 2005”), and January 29, 2005 (“fiscal 2004”) . ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview and History We are a rapidly growing, value-priced retailer of urban fashion apparel and accessories for the entire family. We offer quality, branded products from nationally recognized brands, as well as private label products and a limited assortment of home décor items. Our merchandise offerings are designed to appeal to the preferences of fashion conscious consumers, particularly African-Americans. We believe that we provide merchandise at compelling values. Our goal is to provide nationally recognized branded merchandise at 20% to 60% discounts to department and specialty stores’ regular prices. Our stores average approximately 9,500 square feet of selling space and are typically located in neighborhood shopping centers that are convenient to low- to moderate-income customers. Originally our stores were located in the Southeast, and during late fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2005 were expanded into the Mid-Atlantic and Midwest regions as well as the state of Texas. In fiscal 2006 we opened 42 new stores and entered the states of Missouri and Indiana. As of February 3, 2007, we operated 277 stores in both urban and rural markets in 16 states. Our predecessor, Allied Department Stores, was founded in 1946 and grew into a chain of family apparel stores operating in the Southeast. In 1999, the Company’s chain of stores, then consisting of 85 stores throughout the Southeast, was acquired by Hampshire Equity Partners II, L.P., a private equity firm. Following the acquisition by Hampshire Equity Partners II, L. P., management implemented several strategies to refocus us on the growing urban market and improve our operating and financial performance. After the successful implementation of these strategies and the successful growth of our chain of stores from 85 stores to 212 stores, we completed an initial public offering of our common stock on May 17, 2005. Our executive offices are located at 102 Fahm Street, Savannah, Georgia 31401 and our telephone number is (912) 236-1561. Our Internet address is http://www.cititrends.com. The reference to our web site address in this report does not constitute the incorporation by reference of the information contained at the web site in this report. We make available, free of charge through publication on our web site, a copy of our Annual Report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, filed or furnished to the SEC as soon as reasonably practicable after we have filed such materials with, or furnished such materials to, the SEC. In addition, you may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549 or on the SEC’s web site at http://www.sec.gov, and you may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Company Strengths and Strategies Our goal is to be the leading value-priced retailer of urban fashion apparel and accessories. We believe the following business strengths differentiate us from our competitors and are important to our success: 3 Focus on Urban Fashion Mix. We focus our merchandise on urban fashions, which we believe appeals to our core customers. We do not attempt to dictate trends, but rather devote considerable effort to identifying emerging trends and ensuring that our apparel assortment is considered timely and fashionable in the urban market. Our merchandising staff tests new merchandise before reordering and actively manages the mix of brands and products in the stores to keep our offering fresh and minimize markdowns. Superior Value Proposition. As a value-priced retailer, we seek to offer top quality, fashionable merchandise at compelling prices. We seek to provide nationally recognized brands at 20% to 60% discounts to department and specialty stores’ regular prices. We also offer products under our proprietary brands such as “Citi Steps™,” “Diva Blue™” and “Urban Sophistication™.” These private labels enable us to expand our product selection, offer fashion merchandise at lower prices and enhance our product offerings. Merchandise Mix that Appeals to the Entire Family. We merchandise our stores to create a destination environment capable of meeting the fashion needs of the entire value-conscious family. Each store offers a wide variety of products for men and women, as well as infants, toddlers, boys and girls. Our stores feature sportswear, dresses, plus-sized apparel, outerwear, footwear and accessories, as well as a limited assortment of home décor items. We believe that the breadth of our merchandise distinguishes our stores from many competitors that offer urban apparel primarily for women, and reduces our exposure to fashion trends and demand cycles in any single category. Strong and Flexible Sourcing Relationships. We maintain strong sourcing relationships with a large group of suppliers. We have purchased merchandise from more than 1,000 vendors in the past 12 months. Purchasing is controlled by a 20-plus member buying team located at our Savannah, Georgia headquarters, our buying offices in Los Angeles, California and in New York, New York, that has on average more than 20 years of retail experience. We purchase merchandise through planned programs with vendors at reduced prices and opportunistically through close-outs, with the majority of our merchandise purchased for the current season and a limited quantity held for sale in future seasons. To foster vendor relationships, we pay vendors promptly and do not ask for typical retail concessions such as promotional and markdown allowances or delivery concessions such as drop shipments to stores. Attractive Fashion Presentation and Store Environment. We seek to provide a fashion-focused shopping environment that is similar to a specialty apparel retailer, rather than a typical off-price store. Products from nationally recognized brands are prominently displayed by brand, rather than by size, on dedicated, four-way fixtures featuring multiple sizes and styles. The remaining merchandise is arranged on hanging racks. The stores are carpeted and well-lit, with most featuring a sound system that plays urban adult and urban contemporary music throughout the store. Nearly all of our stores have either been opened or remodeled in the past seven years. Highly Profitable Store Model. We operate a proven and efficient store model that delivers strong cash flow and store level return on investment. We locate stores in high traffic strip shopping centers that are convenient to low- and moderate-income neighborhoods. We generally utilize previously occupied store sites which enables us to obtain attractive rents for our store sites. Similarly, advertising expenses are low as we do not rely on promotion-driven sales but rather seek to build our reputation for value through everyday low prices. At the same time, from an investment perspective, we seek to design stores that are inviting and easy to shop, while limiting startup and fixturing costs. As a result, our stores have generated rapid payback of investments, typically within 12 to 14 months. Product Merchandising and Pricing Products. Our merchandising policy is to offer high quality, branded products at attractive prices for the entire value-conscious family. We seek to maintain a diverse assortment of first quality, in-season merchandise that appeals to the distinctive tastes and preferences of our core customers. Approximately 45% of our net sales are typically represented by nationally recognized brands that we purchase from approximately 30 to 50 vendors. We also offer a wide variety of products from less recognized brands that represent approximately 45% of our net sales. The remaining 10% of our net sales represent private label products under our proprietary brands such as “Citi Steps TM ,” “Diva Blue TM “ and “Urban Sophistication TM .” Our private label products enable us to expand product selection, offer merchandise at lower prices and enhance our product offerings. Our merchandise includes apparel, accessories and home décor. Within apparel, we offer men’s, women’s, which includes dresses, sportswear and plus-sized offerings, and children’s, which includes offerings for infants, toddlers, boys and girls. We also offer accessories, which includes intimate apparel, handbags, hats, jewelry, footwear, toys, belts and sleepwear, as well as a limited assortment of home décor, which includes giftware, lamps, pictures, mirrors and figurines. The following table sets forth the approximate merchandise assortment by classification as a percentage of net sales for fiscal 2006, fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004. 4 Percentage of Net Sales 2006 2005 2004 Women’s 36 % 38 % 38 % Children’s 26 % 25 % 27 % Men’s 22 % 22 % 21 % Accessories 14 % 13 % 13 % Home décor 2 % 2 % 1 % Pricing. We purchase our merchandise at attractive prices and mark prices up less than department or specialty stores. We seek to provide nationally recognized brands at prices 20% to 60% below regular retail prices available in department stores and specialty stores, and to provide a product offering that validates both our value and fashion positioning to our consumers. We also consider the price-to-value relationships of our non-branded products to be strong. Our basic pricing strategy is everyday low prices. The discount from the suggested retail price is usually reflected on the price tag. We review each department in our stores at least monthly for possible markdowns based on sales rates and fashion seasons to promote faster turnover of inventory and to accelerate the flow of current merchandise. Sourcing and Allocation The merchandising department oversees the sourcing and allocation of merchandise to our stores, which allows us to utilize volume purchase discounts and maintain control over our inventory. We source our merchandise from over 1,000 vendors, consisting of domestic manufacturers and importers. Our President and Chief Merchandising Officer supervises a 27-member planning and allocation team, as well as a buying team, which is comprised of four merchandise managers and 23 buyers. Our buyers have on average more than 20 years of experience in the retail business and have developed long-standing relationships with many of our vendors, including those controlling the distribution of branded apparel. Our buyers, who are based in Savannah, Los Angeles and New York, travel regularly to the major United States apparel markets, visiting major manufacturers and attending national and regional apparel trade shows, including urban-focused trade shows. Our buyers purchase merchandise in styles, sizes and quantities to meet inventory levels developed by the planning staff. We work closely with our suppliers and are able to differentiate ourselves by our willingness to purchase less than a full assortment of styles, colors and sizes and by our policy of paying promptly and not asking for typical retail concessions, such as promotional and markdown allowances. The purchasing department utilizes several buying techniques that enable us to offer to consumers branded and other merchandise at everyday low prices. The majority of the nationally recognized branded products we sell are purchased in-season and represent vendors’ excess inventories resulting from production or retailer order cancellations. We generally purchase later in the merchandising buying cycle than department and specialty stores. This allows us to take advantage of imbalances between retailers’ demands for specific merchandise and manufacturers’ supply of that merchandise. We also purchase merchandise from some vendors in advance of the selling season at reduced prices. We purchase merchandise on an opportunistic basis, which we then store as “pack and hold” for sale three to nine months later. Where possible, we seek to purchase items based on style or color in limited quantities on a test basis with the right to reorder as needed. Finally, we purchase private label merchandise that we source to our specifications. We allocate merchandise across our store base according to store-level demand. The merchandising staff utilizes a centralized management system to monitor merchandise purchasing, allocation and sales in order to maximize inventory turnover, identify and respond to changing product demands and determine the timing of mark-downs to our merchandise. The buyers also regularly review the age and condition of the merchandise and manage both the reordering and clearance processes. In addition, the merchandising team communicates with regional, district and store managers to ascertain regional and store-level conditions and to better ensure that our product mix meets our consumers’ demands in terms of quality, fashion, price and availability. We accept payment from our customers for merchandise at time of sale. Payments are made to us by cash, check, Visa TM or Mastercard TM . We do not extend credit terms to our customers. Seasonality The nature of our business is seasonal. Historically, sales in the first and fourth quarters have been higher than sales achieved in the second and third quarters of the fiscal year. Expenses, and to a greater extent operating income, vary by quarter. Results of a period shorter than a full year may not be indicative of results expected for the entire year. Furthermore, the seasonal nature of our business may affect comparisons between periods. 5 Store Operations Store Format. The average selling space of our existing 277 stores is approximately 9,500 square feet, which allows us the space and flexibility to departmentalize our stores and provide directed traffic patterns. New stores opened since the beginning of fiscal 2003 average approximately 10,800 square feet of selling space, which is larger than our historical store base. As a result of these new stores, as well as due to the remodeling and expansion of existing stores, the average square footage of selling space per store has increased from approximately 7,600 at the end of fiscal 2002 to its current level. We arrange our stores in a racetrack format with women’s sportswear, our most attractive and fashion current merchandise, in the center of each store and complementary categories adjacent to those items. Men’s and boy’s apparel is displayed on one side of the store, while dresses, footwear and accessories are displayed on the other side. Merchandise for infants, toddlers and girls is displayed along the back of the store. Impulse items, such as jewelry and sunglasses, are featured near the checkout area. Products from nationally recognized brands are prominently displayed on four-way racks at the front of each department. The remaining merchandise is displayed on hanging racks and occasionally on table displays. Large hanging signs identify each category location. The unobstructed floor plan allows the customer to see virtually all of the different product areas from the store entrance and provides us the flexibility to easily expand and contract departments in response to consumer demand, seasonality and merchandise availability. Virtually all of our inventory is displayed on the selling floor. Prices are clearly marked and often have the comparative retail-selling price noted on the price tag. Store Management. Store operations are managed by our Senior Vice President of Store Operations, four regional managers and 31 district managers, each of whom typically manages four to thirteen stores. The typical store is staffed with a store manager, two or three assistant managers and seven to eight part-time sales associates, all of whom rotate work days on a shift basis. District managers and store managers participate in a bonus program based on achieving predetermined levels of sales and profits. The district managers also participate in bonus programs based on achieving targeted payroll costs. Regional managers participate in a bonus program based on a rollup of the district managers’ bonuses. The assistant managers and sales associates are compensated on an hourly basis with incentives. Moreover, we recognize individual performance through internal promotions and provide extensive opportunities for advancement, particularly given our rapid growth. We place significant emphasis on loss prevention in order to control inventory shrinkage. Initiatives include electronic tags on all of our products, training and education of store personnel on loss prevention issues, digital video camera systems, alarm systems and motion detectors in the stores. We also capture extensive point-of-sale data and maintain systems that monitor returns, voids and employee sales, and produce trend and exception reports to assist in identifying shrinkage issues. We have a centralized loss prevention team that focuses exclusively on implementation of these initiatives and specifically on stores that have experienced above average levels of shrinkage. We also maintain an independent, third party administered, 1-800 Stop line for reporting shrinkage concerns and any other employee concerns. Employee Training. Our employees are critical to achieving our goals, and we strive to hire employees with high energy levels and motivation. We have well-established store operating policies and procedures and an extensive 90-day in-store training program for new store managers and assistant managers. Sales associates also participate in a 30-day customer service and store procedures training program, which is designed to enable them to assist customers in a friendly, helpful manner. Layaway Program. We offer a layaway program that allows customers to purchase merchandise by initially paying a 20% deposit together with a $2.00 service charge. The customer then makes additional payments every two weeks and has 60 days within which to complete the purchase. If the purchase is not completed, the customer receives a merchandise credit for amounts paid less a $5.00 re-stocking fee and service charge. Sales under the layaway program accounted for approximately 8% of our total net sales in fiscal 2006. Site Selection. Cost-effective store locations are an important part of our profitability model. Accordingly, we look for second and third use store locations that offer attractive rents, but also meet our demographic and economic criteria. We have a dedicated real estate management team responsible for new store site selection. In selecting a location, we target both urban and rural markets. Demographic criteria used in site selection include concentrations of our core consumers. In addition, we require convenient site accessibility, as well as strong co-tenants, such as food stores, dollar stores, rent-to-own stores and other apparel stores. Shortly after we sign a new store lease, our store construction department prepares the store by installing fixtures, signs, dressing rooms, checkout counters, cash register systems and other items. Once we take possession of a store site, we can open the store within approximately three to four weeks. Advertising and Marketing Our advertising goal is to build the “Citi Trends” brand and promote consumers’ association of the “Citi Trends” brand with value, quality, fashion and everyday low prices. We generally focus our advertising efforts during the Easter, back-to-school and Christmas seasons. This advertising consists of radio commercials on local hip-hop radio stations that highlight our brands, value and everyday low prices. We also do in-store advertising that includes window signs designated for special purposes, such as seasonal events and clearance periods, and taped audio advertisements co-mingled with in-store music programs. Signs change in color, quantity and theme every three to six weeks. For store grand openings and significant remodels, we typically seek to create community awareness and consumer excitement through radio advertising preceding and during the grand opening and by creating an on-site event with local radio personalities broadcasting from the new location. We also distribute promotional items such as gift certificates and shopping sprees in connection with our grand openings and significant remodels. 6 Our marketing efforts center on promoting our everyday low prices and on demonstrating the strong price-to-value relationship of our products to our consumers. We do not utilize promotional advertising. Merchandise is priced so that our competition rarely has lower prices. In the limited situations where the competition offers the same merchandise at a lower price, we will match the price. Distribution All merchandise sold in our stores is shipped directly from our distribution centers in Savannah or our distribution center in Darlington, South Carolina. We generally ship merchandise from our Fahm Street and Darlington distribution centers to our stores daily. We utilize United Parcel Service, Inc. and FedEx Corporation to ship merchandise to our stores. The two distribution centers in Savannah have a combined square footage of approximately 240,000, including approximately 20,000 square feet of office space. The Darlington facility has approximately 286,500 square feet. To support our continued growth we have planned an expansion that is expected to be completed in fiscal 2008 to the Darlington distribution center which will double the square footage at the facility. Information Technology and Systems We have information systems in place to support each of our business functions. We purchased our enterprise software from Island Pacific, a primary software provider to the retail industry. The computer platform is an IBM AS400. The Island Pacific software supports the following business functions: purchasing, purchase order management, price and markdown management, distribution, merchandise allocation, general ledger, accounts payable and sales audit. Our stores use point-of-sale software from DataVantage, a division of MICROS Systems, Inc., to run the store’s cash registers. The system uses bar code scanners at checkout to capture item sales. It also supports end-of-day processing and automatically transmits sales and transaction data to Savannah soon after the close of business. Additionally, the software supports store time clock and payroll functions. To facilitate the marking down and re-ticketing of merchandise, employees in the stores use hand-held scanners that read the correct item price and prepare new price tickets for merchandise. DataVantage software also enables us to sort and review transaction data and generate exception and other database reporting to assist in loss prevention. We believe that our information systems, with upgrades and updates over time, are adequate to support our operations for the foreseeable future. Growth Strategy Our growth strategy is to open stores in new and existing markets, as well as to increase sales in existing stores. Adding stores in the markets we currently serve often enables us to benefit from enhanced name recognition and achieves advertising and operating synergies. In fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2004, we opened 25 and 40 stores, respectively, and entered the Baltimore, Maryland, Houston, Texas, and Norfolk, Virginia markets. In fiscal 2005, we opened 36 new stores, and entered the Cincinnati, Ohio, Dallas, Texas, Louisville, Kentucky and Miami, Florida markets. In fiscal 2006, we opened 42 new stores, and entered the Indianapolis, Indiana, Dayton, greater-Cleveland, Akron, Ohio and St Louis, Missouri markets. We expect to open 46 to 48 new stores in fiscal 2007. Approximately 90% of the new stores we intend to open in fiscal 2007 will be located in states in which we are currently located. We intend to increase comparable store sales by increasing the assortment and amount of inventory in existing merchandise categories. We also intend to increase comparable store sales through the expansion of adjacent product categories such as home décor and intimate apparel. Competition The markets we serve are highly competitive. The principal methods of competition in the retail business are fashion, assortment, pricing and presentation. We believe we have a competitive advantage in our offering of fashionable brands at everyday low prices. We compete against a diverse group of retailers including national off-price retailers, mass merchants, smaller specialty retailers and dollar stores. The off-price retail companies with which we compete include The TJX Companies, Inc. (“TJX Companies”), Burlington Coat Factory Warehouse Corp.™ (“Burlington Coat Factory”) and Ross Stores, Inc.™ (“Ross Stores”). In particular, TJX Companies’ A.J. Wright stores target moderate income consumers and Ross Stores has a similar concept targeting lower income consumers, called dd’s DISCOUNTS. We believe our strategy of appealing to African-American consumers and offering urban apparel products allows us to compete successfully with these retailers. We also believe we offer a more inviting store format than the off-price retailers, including our use of carpeted floors and more prominently displayed brands. We also compete with a group of smaller specialty retailers that only sell women’s products, such as Rainbow, Dots™, Fashion Cents™, It’s Fashions! and Simply Fashions™. Our mass merchant competitors include Wal-Mart and Kmart. These chains do not focus on fashion apparel and, within their apparel offering, lack the urban focus that we believe differentiates our offering and appeals to our core customers. Similarly, while some of the dollar store chains offer apparel, they typically offer a more limited selection focused on basic apparel needs. As a result, we believe there is significant demand for a value retailer that addresses the market of low- to moderate-income consumers generally and, particularly, African-American and other minority consumers who seek value-priced, urban fashion apparel and accessories. See Item 1A Risk Factors in this Report for additional information. 7 Intellectual Property We regard our trademarks and service marks as having significant value and as being important to our marketing efforts. We have registered the “Citi Trends” trademark with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office on the Principal Register as both a trademark for retail department store services and as a trademark for clothing. We have also registered the following trademarks with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office on the Principal Register: “Citi Club,” “Citi Express,” “Citi Knights,” “Citi Nite,” “Citi Steps,” “Citi Trends Fashion for Less,” “Citi Women,” “CT Sport,” “Diva Blue,” “Lil Citi Man,” “Lil Ms Hollywood,” “Univer Soul,” “Urban Sophistication” and “Vintage Harlem.” Our policy is to pursue registration of our marks and to oppose vigorously infringement of our marks. Employees As of March 3, 2007, we had approximately 1,400 full-time and approximately 1,600 part-time employees. Of these employees, approximately 2,600 are employed in our stores and the remainder are employed in our distribution centers and corporate offices. We are not a party to any collective bargaining agreements, and none of our employees is represented by a labor union. We believe our relations with our employees are good. 8 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with the other information contained or incorporated by reference into this Report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we deem to be currently immaterial also may impair our business operations. The occurrence of any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends on our ability to anticipate, identify and respond rapidly to changes in consumers’ fashion tastes, and our failure to evaluate adequately fashion trends could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The apparel industry in general and our core customer market in particular are subject to rapidly evolving fashion trends and shifting consumer demands. Accordingly, our success is heavily dependent on our ability to anticipate, identify and capitalize on emerging fashion trends, including products, styles and materials that will appeal to our target consumers. Our failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately and timely to changes in styles, trends, brand preferences or desired image preferences is likely to lead to lower demand for our merchandise, which could cause, among other things, sales declines, excess inventories and higher markdowns. The inaccuracy of our forecasts regarding fashion trends could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unsuccessful in competing with our retail apparel competitors, our market share could decline or our growth could be impaired and, as a result, our financial results could suffer. The retail apparel market is highly competitive with few barriers to entry. We compete against a diverse group of retailers, including national off-price apparel chains such as the TJX Companies, Burlington Coat Factory, and Ross Stores; mass merchants such as Wal-Mart and Kmart; smaller discount retail chains that only sell women’s products, such as Rainbow, Dots™, Fashion Cents™, It’s Fashions! (a subsidiary of The Cato Corporation) and Simply Fashions™; and general merchandise discount stores and dollar stores, which offer a variety of products, including apparel, for the value-conscious consumer. We also compete against local off-price and specialty retail stores, regional retail chains, traditional department stores, and web-based retail stores and other direct retailers. The level of competition we face from these retailers varies depending on the product segment, as many of our competitors do not offer apparel for the entire family. Our greatest competition is generally in women’s apparel. Many of our competitors are larger than us and have substantially greater resources than us and, as a result, may be able to adapt better to changing market conditions, exploit new opportunities, exert greater pricing pressures on suppliers and open new stores more quickly and effectively than us. Many of these retailers have better name recognition among consumers than us and purchase significantly more merchandise from vendors. These retailers may be able to purchase branded merchandise that we cannot purchase because of their name recognition and relationships with suppliers, or they may be able to purchase branded merchandise with better pricing concessions than us. Our local and regional competitors have extensive knowledge of the consumer base and may be able to garner more loyalty from customers than us. If the consumer base we serve is satisfied with the selection, quality and price of our competitors’ products, consumers may decide not to shop in our stores. Additionally, if our existing competitors or other retailers decide to focus more on our core customers, particularly African-American consumers, we may have greater difficulty in competing effectively, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected, and the market price of our common stock could suffer. The retail industry periodically has experienced consolidation and other ownership changes. In the future, other United States or foreign retailers may consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations, or realign their affiliations. Any of these developments could result in our competitors increasing their buying power or market visibility. These developments may cause us to lose market share and could have a material adverse effect on our sales, revenues and results of operations. We could experience a reduction in sales and revenues or reduced cash flows if we are unable to fulfill our current and future merchandising needs. We depend on our suppliers for the continued availability and satisfactory quality of our merchandise. Most of our suppliers could discontinue selling to us at any time. Additionally, if the manufacturers or other owners of brands or trademarks terminate the license agreements under which some of our suppliers sell our products, we may be unable to obtain replacement merchandise of comparable fashion appeal or quality, in the same quantities or at the same prices. If we lose the services of one or more of our significant suppliers or one or more of them fail to meet our merchandising needs, we may be unable to obtain replacement merchandise in a timely manner. If our existing suppliers cannot meet our increased needs and we cannot locate alternative supply sources, we may be unable to obtain sufficient quantities of the most popular items of the nationally recognized brands at attractive prices, which could negatively impact our sales, revenues and results of operations. 9 As an apparel retailer, we rely on numerous third parties in the supply chain to produce and deliver the products that we sell, and our business may be negatively impacted by their failure to comply with applicable law. As an importer and retailer of goods, we rely on numerous third parties to supply the products that we sell. Violations of law by our importers, buying agents, manufacturers or distributors could result in delays in shipments and receipt of goods and could subject us to fines or other penalties, any of which could restrict our business activities, increase our operating expenses or cause our revenues to decline. Further, we are susceptible to the receipt of counterfeit brands or unlicensed goods. We could incur liability with manufacturers or other owners of the brands or trademarked products if we inadvertently receive and sell counterfeit brands or unlicensed goods and, therefore, it is important that we establish relationships with reputable vendors to prevent the possibility that we inadvertently receive counterfeit brands or unlicensed goods. Although we have a quality assurance team to check merchandise in an effort to assure that we purchase only authentic brands and licensed goods and are careful in selecting our vendors, we may receive products that we are prohibited from selling or incur liability for selling counterfeit brands or unlicensed goods, which could increase our operating expenses and cause our net income to decline. If our growth strategy is unsuccessful, our financial condition and results of operations could suffer and the market price of our common stock could decline. Our ability to continue to increase our net sales and earnings depends, in large part, on opening new stores and operating the new and existing stores profitably. We opened 40, 36 and 42 new stores in fiscal 2004, fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2006, respectively. We expect to open 46 to 48 new stores in fiscal 2007. If we are unable to open all of these stores or operate them profitably, we may not achieve our forecasted sales and earnings growth targets. Additionally, growth of our store base will place increased demands on our operating, managerial and administrative resources and may lead to management and operating inefficiencies, including merchandising, personnel, distribution and integration problems. These demands and inefficiencies may cause deterioration in the financial performance of our individual stores and, therefore, our entire business. We would experience increased operating costs and limited amounts of growth if we are unable to obtain reasonably priced financing. Although we believe we can meet our future cash requirements with cash flow from operations and existing cash balances, we may need to raise additional debt or equity capital in the future to open new stores, to respond to competitive pressures or to respond to unforeseen financial requirements. We may not be able to obtain additional capital on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our inability to obtain reasonably priced financing could create increased operating costs and diminished levels of growth, as we could be forced to incur indebtedness with above market interest rates or with substantial restrictive covenants, issue equity securities that dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders or scale back our operations and/or store growth strategy. A significant disruption to our distribution process or southeastern retail locations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to distribute our merchandise to our store locations in a timely manner is essential to the efficient and profitable operation of our business. We have two distribution centers located in Savannah, Georgia, one of which also serves as our corporate headquarters, and a distribution center in Darlington, South Carolina. Together, these facilities provide distribution capacity to support twice our current sales volume. Any natural disaster or other disruption to the operation of any of these facilities due to fire, hurricane, other natural disaster or any other cause could damage a significant portion of our inventory or impair our ability to stock our stores and process product returns to suppliers adequately. In addition, the southeastern United States, where all three of our distribution centers are located, is vulnerable to significant damage or destruction from hurricanes and tropical storms. Although we maintain insurance on our stores and other facilities, the economic effects of a natural disaster that affects our distribution centers and/or a significant number of our stores could increase our operating expenses, impair our cash flows and reduce our revenues, which could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. Our net sales, inventory levels and earnings fluctuate on a seasonal basis, which makes our business more susceptible to adverse events that occur during those seasons. Our net sales and earnings are significantly higher during the first and fourth quarters each year due to the importance of the spring selling season, which includes Easter, and the fall selling season, which includes Christmas. Factors negatively affecting us during the first and fourth quarters, including adverse weather and unfavorable economic conditions, will have a greater adverse effect on our financial condition than if our business were less seasonal. In order to prepare for the spring and fall selling seasons, we must order and keep in stock significantly more merchandise than during other parts of the year. This seasonality makes our business more susceptible to the risk that our inventory will not satisfy actual consumer demand. In addition, any unanticipated demand imbalances during these peak shopping seasons could require us to sell excess inventory at a substantial markdown or fail to satisfy our consumers. In either event, our net sales and gross margins may be lower than historical levels, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 We experience fluctuations and variability in our comparable store sales and quarterly results of operations and, as a result, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate or decline substantially. Our comparable store sales and quarterly results have fluctuated significantly in the past based on a number of economic, seasonal and competitive factors, and we expect them to continue to fluctuate in the future. Since the beginning of fiscal 2003, our quarter-to-quarter comparable store sales have ranged from an increase of 0.3% to an increase of 25.0%. The most significant fluctuations were due to the unusually high sales following Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. The positive post-hurricane impact on sales has decreased over time. In addition, we may be unable to maintain historical levels of comparable store sales as we execute our growth strategy and expand our business. This variability could cause our comparable store sales and quarterly results to fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could result in volatility of the market price of our common stock. If our comparable store sales and quarterly results fail to meet the expectations of the market generally, the market price of our common stock could decline substantially. Our sales and revenues could decline as a result of general economic and other factors outside of our control, such as changes in consumer spending patterns and declines in employment levels. Downturns, or the expectation of a downturn, in general economic conditions could adversely affect consumer spending patterns, our sales and our results of operations. Because apparel generally is a discretionary purchase, declines in consumer spending patterns may have a more negative effect on apparel retailers than some other retailers. Therefore, we may not be able to maintain our historical rate of growth in revenues and earnings, or remain as profitable, if there is a decline in consumer spending patterns. In addition, since the majority of our stores are located in the southeastern United States, our operations are more susceptible to regional factors than the operations of our more geographically diversified competitors. Therefore, any adverse economic conditions that have a disproportionate effect on the southeastern United States could have a greater negative effect on our sales, revenues and results of operations than on retailers with a more geographically diversified store base. If we fail to protect our trademarks, there could be a negative effect on our brand image and limitations on our ability to penetrate new markets. We believe that our “Citi Trends” trademark is integral to our store design and our success in building consumer loyalty to our brand. We have registered this trademark with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. We have also registered, or applied for registration of, additional trademarks with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office that we believe are important to our business. We cannot assure you that these registrations will prevent imitation of our name, merchandising concept, store design or private label merchandise or the infringement of our other intellectual property rights by others. Imitation of our name, concept, store design or merchandise in a manner that projects lesser quality or carries a negative connotation of our brand image could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we cannot assure you that others will not try to block the manufacture or sale of our private label merchandise by claiming that our merchandise violates their trademarks or other proprietary rights since other entities may have rights to trademarks that contain the word “Citi” or may have rights in similar or competing marks for apparel and/or accessories. Although we cannot currently estimate the likelihood of success of any such lawsuit or ultimate resolution of such a conflict, such a controversy could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to implement and maintain effective internal controls in our business, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing these assessments. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may be unable to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting. Moreover, effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important in our effort to prevent financial fraud. If we cannot produce reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, the market price of our stock could decline significantly and we may be unable to obtain additional financing to operate and expand our business. Adverse trade restrictions may disrupt our supply of merchandise. We also face various risks because much of our merchandise is imported from abroad. We purchase the products we sell directly from over 1,000 vendors, and a substantial portion of this merchandise is manufactured outside of the United States and imported by our vendors from countries such as China and other areas of the Far East, including Taiwan and the Philippines. The countries in which our merchandise currently is manufactured or may be manufactured in the future could become subject to new trade restrictions imposed by the United States or other foreign governments. Trade restrictions, including increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes, and customs restrictions, against apparel items, as well as United States or foreign labor strikes, work stoppages or boycotts, could increase the cost or reduce the supply of apparel available to us and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our merchandise supply could be impacted if our vendors’ imports become subject to existing or future duties and quotas, or if our vendors face increased competition from other companies for production facilities, import quota capacity and shipping capacity. 11 We also face a variety of other risks generally associated with relying on vendors that do business in foreign markets and import merchandise from abroad, such as: · political instability or the threat of terrorism, in particular in countries where our vendors source merchandise such as Taiwan and the Philippines; · enhanced security measures at United States and foreign ports, which could delay delivery of imports; · imposition of new or supplemental duties, taxes, and other charges on imports; · delayed receipt or non-delivery of goods due to the failure of foreign-source suppliers to comply with applicable import regulations; · delayed receipt or non-delivery of goods due to organized labor strikes or unexpected or significant port congestion at United States ports; and · local business practice and political issues, including issues relating to compliance with domestic or international labor standards, which may result in adverse publicity. The United States may impose new initiatives that adversely affect the trading status of countries where apparel is manufactured. These initiatives may include retaliatory duties or other trade sanctions that, if enacted, would increase the cost of products imported from countries where our vendors acquire merchandise. On March 30, 2007, the United States government announced that it would impose potentially significant tariffs on Chinese manufactured products. We have not yet determined the impact of such action on our imports from China, but will continue to monitor developments in that regard. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our sales, revenues and results of operations. The removal of import quotas on textiles and clothing in the future may adversely affect our merchandise supply, impact our sales and reduce our cash flows. On January 1, 2005, in accordance with the World Trade Organization, or the WTO, Agreement on Textiles and Clothing, the import quotas on textiles and clothing manufactured by countries that are members of the WTO were eliminated. Subsequently, the United States and Europe experienced a surge of imported goods from China, a country that benefited from the removal of the quotas. In response, the United States initially implemented new quotas against various textile and apparel items from China and ultimately negotiated an agreement with the Chinese government. The agreement between the United States and China went into effect in November 2005 and will continue in effect through December 31, 2008. During that time, China has agreed to specified quota limits on most textile and apparel products, and the United States has agreed to use restraint in exercising its right to impose additional safeguards. Beginning in January 2009, the U.S.-China agreement and the quotas against Chinese apparel will expire. At that point, the United States would still have the ability to impose safeguards under the WTO Agreement on Textiles and Clothing although the requirements for doing so will be more stringent. The situation in 2009 potentially could be similar to the experience in 2005, with import surges and a cycle of safeguards and negotiations. This could create logistical delays in our ability to maintain required inventory levels and alter cost differentials between vendors that source domestically and vendors that source more extensively from overseas. We believe this could lower the cost of apparel products and thereby reduce the average dollar amount of sales per customer in our stores. Additionally, retaliatory trade actions could cause a disruption of the supply chain of products from foreign markets, difficulty in predicting accurately the prices of merchandise to be imported from a particular country and adverse effects on our merchandise supply, sales and cash flows. We depend on the experience and expertise of our senior management team and key employees, and accordingly, the loss of the services of R. Edward Anderson or George A. Bellino could have a material adverse effect on our business strategy, operating costs, financial condition and results of operations. The success of our business is dependent upon the close supervision of all aspects of our business by our senior management, particularly the operation of our stores, the selection of merchandise and the site selection for new stores. In addition, we do not have a non-competition agreement with R. Edward Anderson, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and our non-competition agreement with George A. Bellino, our President and Chief Merchandising Officer, expired on December 31, 2006 and was not subsequently renewed. Accordingly, Messrs. Anderson and/or Bellino could leave us at any time and begin to work for our competitors or otherwise, which loss of services could have a material adverse effect on our business strategy, operating costs, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to attract, train, assimilate and retain skilled personnel could have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy and our financial condition. Like most retailers, we experience significant employee turnover rates, particularly among store sales associates and managers, and our continued growth will require us to hire and train even more new personnel. We therefore must continually attract, hire and train new personnel to meet our staffing needs. We constantly compete for qualified personnel with companies in our industry and in other industries. A significant increase in the turnover rate among our store sales associates and managers would increase our recruiting and training costs and could decrease our operating efficiency and productivity. 12 If we are unable to retain our employees or attract, train, assimilate or retain other skilled personnel in the future, we may not be able to service our customers as effectively, thus reducing our ability to continue our growth and to operate our existing stores as profitably as we have in the past. Increases in the minimum wage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Currently, there is a proposed law being considered by the U.S. Congress to increase the minimum wage in the United States. The Fair Minimum Wage Act of 2007 was passed by the House of Representatives on January 10, 2007 and by the Senate in an amended form on February 1, 2007. If the Fair Minimum Wage Act of 2007 becomes law, it would raise the federal minimum wage to (i) $5.85 per hour sixty days after the bill becomes law, (ii) $6.55 per hour one year and sixty days after the bill becomes law and (iii) $7.25 per hour two years and sixty days after the bill becomes law. Additionally, from time to time, legislative proposals are made to increase the minimum wage in certain individual states. Wage rates for many of our employees are at or slightly above the minimum wage. As federal and/or state minimum wage rates increase, we may need to increase not only the wage rates of our minimum wage employees but the wages paid to our other hourly employees as well. Any increase in the cost of our labor could have a material adverse effect on our operating costs, financial condition and results of operations. Any failure of our management information systems or the inability of third parties to continue to upgrade and maintain our systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on the accuracy, reliability and proper functioning of our management information systems, including the systems used to track our sales and facilitate inventory management. We also rely on our management information systems for merchandise planning, replenishment and markdowns, as well as other key business functions. These functions enhance our ability to optimize sales while limiting markdowns and reducing inventory risk through properly marking down slow-selling styles, reordering existing styles and effectively distributing new inventory to our stores. We do not currently have redundant systems for all functions performed by our management information systems. Any interruption in these systems could impair our ability to manage our inventory effectively, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. To support our growth, we will need to expand our management information systems, and our failure to link and maintain these systems adequately could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on third-party suppliers to maintain and periodically upgrade our management information systems, including the software programs supporting our inventory management functions. This software is licensed to us by third-party suppliers. If any of these suppliers is unable to continue to maintain and upgrade these software programs and/or if we are unable to convert to alternate systems in an efficient and timely manner, it could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to attract consumers to our stores depends on the success of the strip shopping centers and downtown business districts where our stores are located. We locate our stores in strip shopping centers, street front locations and downtown business districts where we believe our consumers and potential consumers shop. The success of an individual store can depend on favorable placement within a given strip shopping center or business district. We cannot control the development of alternative shopping destinations near our existing stores or the availability or cost of real estate within existing or new shopping destinations. If our store locations fail to attract sufficient consumer traffic or we are unable to locate replacement locations on terms acceptable to us, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. If one or more of the anchor tenants located in the strip shopping centers or business districts where our stores are located close or leave, or if there is significant deterioration of the surrounding areas in which our stores are located, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our stock price is subject to volatility. Our stock price is volatile. From our initial public offering in May 2005 through April 2, 2007, the trading price of our common stock has ranged from $14.00 to $57.85 per share. The market price for our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; · changes in securities analysts’ recommendations or estimates of our financial performance; · publication of research reports by analysts; · changes in market valuations or operating performance of our competitors or companies similar to ours; · announcements by us, our competitors or other retailers; 13 · additions and departures of key personnel; · changes in accounting principles; · the passage of legislation or other developments affecting us or our industry; · the trading volume of our common stock in the public market; · changes in economic conditions; · financial market conditions; · natural disasters, terrorist acts, acts of war or periods of civil unrest; and · the realization of some or all of the risks described in this section entitled “Risk Factors.” In addition, the stock markets have experienced significant price and trading volume fluctuations from time to time, and the market prices of the equity securities of retailers have been extremely volatile and have recently experienced sharp price and trading volume changes. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. There may be sales of substantial amounts of our common stock pursuant to our shelf registration statement, or otherwise, which could cause our stock price to fall. Our current stockholders hold a substantial number of shares that they will be able to sell in the public market in the near future. As of April 2, 2007, 13,866,191 shares of our common stock were outstanding. As of April 2, 2007, 814,929 additional shares of our common stock were subject to outstanding stock options. All of the shares issued and sold in our initial public offering and our secondary offering, are freely tradable under the securities laws, except for any shares acquired by our “affiliates,” as that term is defined in Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act, which generally includes officers, directors and holders of 10% or more of our common stock. On April 5, 2007, we filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC which registers for sale from time to time, 3,000,000 shares of our common stock held by Hampshire Equity Partners II, L.P. and certain of its affiliates and 300,000 shares of our common stock held by certain of our officers and directors. In addition, over 3,000,000 shares of our common stock held by existing stockholders are restricted or control shares and may be sold in the public market only if they are registered or if they qualify for an exemption from registration under Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act or otherwise. Future sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock could cause our stock price to fall and/or impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional stock. A significant amount of our common stock is concentrated in the hands of one of our existing stockholders whose interests may not coincide with our other stockholders. As of April 2, 2007, Hampshire Equity Partners II, L.P. and certain of its affiliates owned approximately 45.7% of our common stock. As a result, Hampshire Equity Partners II, L.P. and its affiliates have an ability to exercise significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval. These matters include the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions, including potential mergers, consolidations or sales of all or substantially all of our assets. In connection with our initial public offering, we entered into a nominating agreement with Hampshire Equity Partners II, L.P. pursuant to which we, acting through our nominating and corporate governance committee, agreed, subject to the requirements of our directors’ fiduciary duties, that (i) Hampshire Equity Partners II, L.P. is entitled to designate two directors to be nominated for election to our board of directors as long as Hampshire Equity Partners II, L.P. (together with any of its respective successors and permitted assigns) owns in the aggregate at least 40% of the shares of our common stock which it owned immediately prior to the consummation of our initial public offering. Hampshire Equity Partners II, L.P. is entitled to designate one director to be nominated for election to our board of directors as long as Hampshire Equity Partners II, L.P. (together with any of its respective successors and permitted assigns) owns in the aggregate less than 40% and at least 15% of the shares of our common stock which it owned immediately prior to the consummation of our initial public offering. If at any time Hampshire Equity Partners II, L.P. (together with any of its respective successors and permitted assigns) owns less than 15% of the shares of our common stock which it owned immediately prior to the consummation of our initial public offering, it will not have the right to nominate any directors for election to our board of directors. Notwithstanding the foregoing, as of the date of this Report, Hampshire Equity Partners II, L.P. does not have a designee on our board of directors. Securities analysts may not continue to cover our common stock or they may issue negative reports, and this may have a negative impact on the price of our common stock. The trading market for our common stock relies, in part, on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about our company or our industry. Public statements by these securities analysts may affect our stock price. If any of the analysts who cover us downgrades the rating of our common stock, our common stock price would likely decline. If any of these analysts ceases coverage of our common stock, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our common stock price to decline. Further, if no analysts continue to cover our common stock, the lack of research coverage may depress the market price of our common stock. 14 In addition, rules mandated by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and a global settlement between the SEC and securities analysts have caused a number of fundamental changes in how securities analysts are reviewed and compensated. In particular, many investment banking firms are now required to contract with independent financial analysts for their stock research. In this environment, it may be difficult for companies with smaller market capitalizations, such as our company, to attract independent financial analysts to cover them, which could have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not currently intend to do so for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. Therefore, you are not likely to receive any dividends on your common stock for the foreseeable future. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and Delaware law may delay or prevent our acquisition by a third party. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation, as amended, and our amended and restated by-laws contain several provisions that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions include, among other things, a classified board of directors, advance notice for raising business or making nominations at stockholder meetings and “blank check” preferred stock. Blank check preferred stock enables our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to designate and issue additional series of preferred stock with such dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights, including convertible securities with no limitations on conversion, as our board of directors may determine, including rights to dividends and proceeds in a liquidation that are senior to the common stock. We are also subject to several provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law that could delay, prevent or deter a merger, acquisition, tender offer, proxy contest or other transaction that might otherwise result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market price for their common stock or may otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. Our costs have increased and may continue to increase as a result of being a public company, and complying with regulations applicable to public companies may adversely affect our business. As a public company, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the Nasdaq Stock Market, have required changes in recent years in the corporate governance practices of public companies. We expect these rules and regulations to continue to increase significantly our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, in connection with becoming a public company, we created additional board committees and adopted policies regarding internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures. In addition, we must comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and, pursuant to this section, we are required to include management and auditor reports on internal controls over financial reporting as part of our annual reports for fiscal 2006 and subsequent years. We have and will continue to incur additional costs in, and dedicate significant resources toward, complying with these requirements, which may divert management’s attention from, and which may in turn adversely affect, our business. We also expect these laws, rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. We continue to evaluate and monitor developments with respect to these laws, rules and regulations, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. The costs of compliance or our failure to comply with these laws, rules and regulations could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operation and the price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 15 