Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. The following risk factors, issues and uncertainties should be considered in evaluating our future prospects. In particular, keep these risk factors in mind when you read “forward-looking” statements elsewhere in this report. Forward-looking statements relate to our expectations for future events and time periods. Generally, the words “anticipate,” “believe,” “expect,” “intend” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and future events and circumstances could differ significantly from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements. Any of the following risks could harm our business, operating results or financial 10 condition and could result in a complete loss of your investment. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not yet identified or that we currently think are immaterial may also harm our business and financial condition in the future. Our ability to attract customers to our stores depends heavily on the success of the shopping malls in which our stores are located; any decrease in customer traffic in those malls could cause our sales to be less than expected. In order to generate customer traffic we depend heavily on locating our stores in prominent locations within successful shopping malls. Sales at these stores are derived, in part, from the volume of traffic in those malls. Our stores benefit from the ability of a mall’s other tenants to generate consumer traffic in the vicinity of our stores and the continuing popularity of malls as shopping destinations. Our sales volume and mall traffic generally may be adversely affected by, among other things, economic downturns in a particular area, competition from ecommerce retailers, non-mall retailers and other malls, increases in gasoline prices and the closing or decline in popularity of other stores in the malls in which we are located. The continuing slowdown in the United States economy or an uncertain economic outlook could curtail new shopping mall development, decrease shopping mall traffic, reduce the number of hours that shopping mall operators keep their shopping malls open or force them to cease operations entirely. A reduction in mall traffic as a result of these or any other factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our growth strategy depends on our ability to open and operate new stores each year, which could strain our resources and cause the performance of our existing stores to suffer. Our growth largely depends on our ability to open and operate new stores successfully. However, our ability to open new stores is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties including the current deterioration of the macroeconomic environment, and we may be unable to open new stores as planned, and any failure to successfully open and operate new stores would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and on the market price of our common stock. We intend to continue to open new stores in future years while remodeling a portion of our existing store base annually. In addition, our proposed expansion will place increased demands on our operational, managerial and administrative resources. These increased demands could cause us to operate our business less effectively, which in turn could cause deterioration in the financial performance of our individual stores and our overall business. To the extent our new store openings are in markets where we already have stores, we may experience reduced net sales in existing stores in those markets. In addition, successful execution of our growth strategy may require that we obtain additional financing, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain that financing on acceptable terms or at all. The number of anticipated store openings in fiscal 2010 may increase or decrease due to market conditions. We have opened or acquired, on a compounded annual growth rate, approximately 22% new stores over the last five years. As we look to fiscal 2010 and beyond, we will likely slow this rate of growth until we see the macroeconomic environment improve. Our business could suffer from the effects of inflation that could have a significant effect on increased prices for merchandise inventories. We may experience significant cost increases for inventories purchased from foreign vendors. Such increases are primarily attributable to unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates, giving rise to potential increases in the cost of manufacturing which our vendors may seek to pass along to us. These increases could have a negative impact on our product margins for our private label and domestic brands. 11 If we fail to effectively execute our expansion strategy, we may not be able to successfully open new store locations in a timely manner, if at all, which could have an adverse affect on our net sales and results of operations. Our ability to open and operate new stores successfully depends on many factors, including, among others, our ability to: • identify suitable store locations, the availability of which is outside of our control; • negotiate acceptable lease terms, including desired tenant improvement allowances; • source sufficient levels of inventory at acceptable costs to meet the needs of new stores; • hire, train and retain store personnel; • successfully integrate new stores into our existing operations; and • identify and satisfy the merchandise preferences of new geographic areas. In addition, many of our planned new stores are to be opened in regions of the United States in which we currently have few, or no, stores. The expansion into these markets may present competitive, merchandising and distribution challenges that are different from those currently encountered in our existing markets. Any of these challenges could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business is dependent upon our being able to anticipate, identify and respond to changing fashion trends, customer preferences and other fashion-related factors; failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on us. Customer tastes and fashion trends in the action sports lifestyle market are volatile and tend to change rapidly. Our success depends on our ability to effectively anticipate, identify and respond to changing fashion tastes and consumer preferences, and to translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product offerings in a timely manner. If we are unable to successfully anticipate, identify or respond to changing styles or trends and misjudge the market for our products or any new product lines, our sales may be lower than predicted and we may be faced with a substantial amount of unsold inventory or missed opportunities. In response to such a situation, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess or slow-moving inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our sales and inventory levels fluctuate on a seasonal basis, leaving our operating results particularly susceptible to changes in back-to-school and holiday shopping patterns. Our sales are typically disproportionately higher in the third and fourth fiscal quarters of each fiscal year due to increased sales during the back-to-school and winter holiday shopping seasons. Sales during these periods cannot be used as an accurate indicator of annual results. Our sales in the first and second fiscal quarters are typically lower than in our third and fourth fiscal quarters due, in part, to the traditional retail slowdown immediately following the winter holiday season. As a result of this seasonality, any factors negatively affecting us during the last half of the year, including unfavorable economic conditions, adverse weather or our ability to acquire seasonal merchandise inventory, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations for the entire year. In addition, in order to prepare for the back-to-school and winter holiday shopping seasons, we must order and keep in stock significantly more merchandise than we carry during other times of the year. Any unanticipated decrease in demand for our products during these peak shopping seasons could require us to sell excess inventory at a substantial markdown, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our quarterly results of operations are volatile and may decline. Our quarterly results of operations have fluctuated significantly in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. As discussed above, our sales and operating results are typically lower in 12 the first and second quarters of our fiscal year due, in part, to the traditional retail slowdown immediately following the winter holiday season. Our quarterly results of operations are affected by a variety of other factors, including: • the timing of new store openings and the relative proportion of our new stores to mature stores; • whether we are able to successfully integrate any new stores that we acquire and the presence or absence of any unanticipated liabilities in connection therewith; • fashion trends and changes in consumer preferences; • calendar shifts of holiday or seasonal periods; • changes in our merchandise mix; • timing of promotional events; • general economic conditions and, in particular, the retail sales environment; • actions by competitors or mall anchor tenants; • weather conditions; • the level of pre-opening expenses associated with our new stores; and • inventory shrinkage beyond our historical average rates. Failure to successfully integrate any businesses or stores that we acquire could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial performance. We may from time to time acquire other retail stores, individually or in groups, or businesses. We may experience difficulties in assimilating any stores or businesses we may acquire and any such acquisitions may also result in the diversion of our capital and our management’s attention from other business issues and opportunities. We may not be able to successfully integrate any stores or businesses that we may acquire, including their facilities, personnel, financial systems, distribution, operations and general operating procedures. If we fail to successfully integrate acquisitions or if such acquisitions fail to provide the benefits that we expect to receive, we could experience increased costs and other operating inefficiencies, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial performance. Our business is susceptible to weather conditions that are out of our control including the potential risks of unpredictable weather patterns, including any weather patterns associated with naturally occurring global climate change, and the resultant unseasonable weather could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Our business is susceptible to unseasonable weather conditions. For example, extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures (including any weather patterns associated with global warming and cooling) during the winter season or cool weather during the summer season could render a portion of our inventory incompatible with those unseasonable conditions. These prolonged unseasonable weather conditions, particularly in regions of the United States where we have a concentration of stores, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may be unable to compete favorably in the highly competitive retail industry, and if we lose customers to our competitors, our sales could decrease. The teenage and young adult retail apparel, hardgoods and accessories industry is highly competitive. We compete with other retailers for vendors, teenage and young adult customers, suitable store locations, qualified store associates and management personnel. In the softgoods market, which includes apparel, accessories and 13 footwear, we currently compete with other teenage-focused retailers. In addition, in the softgoods market we compete with independent specialty shops, department stores, and direct marketers that sell similar lines of merchandise and target customers through catalogs and ecommerce. In the hardgoods market, which includes skateboards, snowboards, bindings, components and other equipment, we compete directly or indirectly with the following categories of companies: other specialty retailers that compete with us across a significant portion of our merchandising categories, such as local snowboard and skate shops; large-format sporting goods stores and chains and ecommerce retailers. Some of our competitors are larger than we are and have substantially greater financial, marketing, including advanced ecommerce marketing capabilities, and other resources than we do. Direct competition with these and other retailers may increase significantly in the future, which could require us, among other things, to lower our prices and could result in the loss of our customers. Current and increased competition could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to maintain good relationships with vendors or if a vendor is otherwise unable or unwilling to supply us with adequate quantities of their products at acceptable prices, our business and financial performance could suffer. Our business is dependent on continued good relations with our vendors. In particular, we believe that we generally are able to obtain attractive pricing and other terms from vendors because we are perceived as a desirable customer, and deterioration in our relationship with our vendors would likely have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not have any contractual relationships with our vendors, other than normal course of business purchase orders and, accordingly, there can be no assurance that our vendors will provide us with an adequate supply or quality of products or acceptable pricing. Our vendors could discontinue selling to us or raise the prices they charge at any time. There can be no assurance that we will be able to acquire desired merchandise in sufficient quantities on terms acceptable to us in the future. Also, certain of our vendors sell their products directly to the retail market and therefore compete with us directly and other vendors may decide to do so in the future. There can be no assurance that such vendors will not decide to discontinue supplying their products to us, supply us only less popular or lower quality items, raise the prices they charge us or focus on selling their products directly. In addition, a number of our vendors are smaller, less capitalized companies and are more likely to be impacted by unfavorable general economic and market conditions than larger and better capitalized companies. These smaller vendors may not have sufficient liquidity during economic downturns to properly fund their businesses and their ability to supply their products to us could be negatively impacted. Any inability to acquire suitable merchandise at acceptable prices, or the loss of one or more key vendors, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we lose key management or are unable to attract and retain the talent required for our business, our financial performance could suffer. Our performance depends largely on the efforts and abilities of our senior management, including our Co-Founder and Chairman, Thomas D. Campion, our Chief Executive Officer, Richard M. Brooks, our President and General Merchandising Manager, Lynn K. Kilbourne, our Chief Financial Officer, Trevor S. Lang, and our Executive Vice President of Stores, Ford K. Wright. None of our employees have employment agreements with us and we do not plan to obtain key person life insurance covering any of our employees. If we lose the services of one or more of our key executives, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our growth objectives. As our business grows, we will need to attract and retain additional qualified management personnel in a timely manner and we may not be able to do so. Our failure to meet our staffing needs could adversely affect our ability to implement our growth strategy and could have a material impact on our results of operations. Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including, divisional managers, regional managers, district managers, store managers and store 14 associates, who understand and appreciate our corporate culture, based on a passion for the action sports lifestyle and are able to adequately represent this culture to our customers. Qualified individuals of the requisite caliber, skills and number needed to fill these positions may be in short supply in some areas, and the employee turnover rate in the retail industry is high. Competition for qualified employees could require us to pay higher wages to attract a sufficient number of suitable employees. If we are unable to hire and retain store managers and store associates capable of consistently providing a high level of customer service, as demonstrated by their enthusiasm for our culture and knowledge of our merchandise, our ability to open new stores may be impaired and the performance of our existing and new stores could be materially adversely affected. We are also dependent upon temporary personnel to adequately staff our stores and distribution center, particularly during busy periods such as the back-to-school and winter holiday seasons. There can be no assurance that we will receive adequate assistance from our temporary personnel, or that there will be sufficient sources of temporary personnel. Although none of our employees are currently covered by collective bargaining agreements, we cannot guarantee that our employees will not elect to be represented by labor unions in the future, which could increase our labor costs and could subject us to the risk of work stoppages and strikes. Any such failure to meet our staffing needs, any material increases in employee turnover rates, any increases in labor costs or any work stoppages or interruptions or strikes could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Our operations, including our sole distribution center, are concentrated in the western United States, which makes us susceptible to adverse conditions in this region. Our home office and sole distribution center are located in a single facility in Washington, and a substantial number of our stores are located in the western half of the United States. We also have a substantial number of stores in the New York/New Jersey region and Texas. As a result, our business may be more susceptible to regional factors than the operations of more geographically diversified competitors. These factors include, among others, economic and weather conditions, demographic and population changes and fashion tastes. In addition, we rely on a single distribution center to receive, store and distribute the vast majority of our merchandise to all of our stores and to fulfill our ecommerce sales. As a result, a natural disaster or other catastrophic event, such as an earthquake affecting the West Coast, could significantly disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are relocating our sole distribution center located in Everett, Washington to Corona, California in April and May 2010 to receive, store and distribute the vast majority of our merchandise to all of our retail stores. As a result, events may occur during the relocation period and the operating periods subsequent to the relocation, that could significantly disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are required to make substantial rental payments under our operating leases and any failure to make these lease payments when due would likely have a material adverse effect on our business and growth plans. We do not own any of our retail stores or our combined home office and ecommerce distribution facility, but instead we lease all of these facilities under operating leases. Payments under these operating leases account for a significant portion of our operating expenses and has historically been our third largest expense behind cost of sales and our employee related costs. For example, total rental expense, including additional rental payments (or “percentage rent”) based on sales of some of the stores, common area maintenance charges and real estate taxes, under operating leases was $58.0 million, $52.9 million and $43.5 million for fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007. As of January 30, 2010, we were a party to operating leases requiring future minimum lease payments aggregating approximately $202.3 million through fiscal year 2014 and approximately $118.9 million thereafter. In addition, substantially all of our store leases provide for additional rental payments based on sales of the respective stores, as well as common area maintenance charges, and require that we pay real estate taxes, none of which is included in the amount of future minimum lease payments. These amounts generally escalate each year. We expect that any new stores we open will also be leased by us under operating leases, which will further increase our operating lease expenses. 15 Our substantial operating lease obligations could have significant negative consequences, including: • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; • requiring that a substantial portion of our available cash be applied to pay our rental obligations, thus reducing cash available for other purposes; and • limiting our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business or in the industry in which we compete, and placing us at a disadvantage with respect to some of our competitors. We depend on cash flow from operations to pay our lease expenses and to fulfill our other cash needs. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities, and sufficient funds are not otherwise available to us from borrowings under bank loans or from other sources, we may not be able to service our operating lease expenses, grow our business, respond to competitive challenges or to fund our other liquidity and capital needs, which would have a material adverse effect on us. The terms of our revolving credit facility impose operating and financial restrictions on us that may impair our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. This impairment could have a significant adverse impact on our business. We renewed and amended our secured credit agreement with Wells Fargo HSBC Trade Bank, N.A., on June 10, 2009, and the prior facility agreement was terminated. The credit agreement provides us with a secured revolving credit facility until September 1, 2011, of up to $25.0 million. The secured revolving credit facility provides for the issuance of a standby letter of credit in an amount not to exceed $5.0 million outstanding at any time and with a term not to exceed 365 days. The commercial line of credit provides for the issuance of a commercial letter of credit in an amount not to exceed $10.0 million and with terms not to exceed 120 days. The amount of borrowings available at any time under our secured revolving credit facility is reduced by the amount of standby and commercial letters of credit outstanding at that time. There were no outstanding borrowings under the secured revolving credit facility at January 30, 2010. The Company had open commercial letters of credit outstanding under our secured revolving credit facility of approximately $0.3 million at January 31, 2009 and approximately $0.6 million at January 30, 2010. The secured revolving credit facility bears interest at the Daily One Month LIBOR rate plus 1.00%. The credit agreement contains a number of restrictions and covenants that generally limit our ability to, among other things, (1) incur additional debt, (2) undergo a change in ownership and (3) enter into certain transactions. The credit agreement also contains financial covenants that require us to meet certain specified financial tests and ratios, including, a maximum net loss not to exceed $10.0 million after taxes on a trailing four-quarter basis provided, that, there shall be added to net income all charges for impairment of goodwill and store assets not to exceed $5.0 million in aggregate, and a minimum quick ratio of 1.25. The quick ratio is defined as our cash and near cash equivalents plus certain defined receivables divided by the outstanding borrowings. All of our personal property, including, among other things, our inventory, equipment and fixtures, has been pledged to secure our obligations under the credit agreement. We must also provide financial information and statements to our lender. We were in compliance with all such covenants at January 30, 2010. A breach of any of these restrictive covenants or our inability to comply with the required financial tests and ratios could result in a default under the credit agreement. If a default occurs, the lender may elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. If we are unable to repay outstanding borrowings when due, whether at their maturity or if declared due and payable by the lender following a default, the lender has the right to proceed against the collateral granted to it to secure the indebtedness. As a result, any breach of these covenants or failure to comply with these tests and ratios could have a material adverse effect on us. There can be no assurance that we will not breach the covenants or fail to comply with the tests and ratios in our credit agreement or any other debt agreements we may enter into in the future and, if a breach occurs, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain necessary waivers or amendments from the lenders. 16 The restrictions contained in our credit agreement could: (1) limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet capital needs or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans; and (2) adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, strategic acquisitions, investments or other capital needs or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest. Our business could suffer if our ability to acquire financing is reduced or eliminated. In the current economic environment, we cannot be assured that our borrowing relationship with our lender will continue or that our lender will remain able to support its commitments to us in the future. If our lender fails to do so, then we may not be able to secure alternative financing on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Our business could suffer as a result of small parcel delivery services such as United Parcel Service or Federal Express being unable to distribute our merchandise. We rely upon small parcel delivery services for our product shipments, including shipments to, from and between our stores. Accordingly, we are subject to risks, including employee strikes and inclement weather, which may affect their ability to meet our shipping needs. Among other things, any circumstances that require us to use other delivery services for all or a portion of our shipments could result in increased costs and delayed deliveries and could harm our business materially. In addition, although we have contracts with small parcel delivery services, we have the right to terminate these contracts upon 30 days written notice. Although the contracts with these small parcel delivery services provide certain discounts from the shipment rates in effect at the time of shipment, the contracts do not limit their ability to raise the shipment rates at any time. Accordingly, we are subject to the risk that small parcel delivery services may increase the rates they charge, that they may terminate their contracts with us, that they may decrease the rate discounts provided to us when an existing contract is renewed or that we may be unable to agree on the terms of a new contract with them, any of which could materially adversely affect our operating results. Our business could suffer if a manufacturer fails to use acceptable labor practices. We do not control our vendors or the manufacturers that produce the products we buy from them, nor do we control the labor practices of our vendors and these manufacturers. The violation of labor or other laws by any of our vendors or these manufacturers, or the divergence of the labor practices followed by any of our vendors or these manufacturers from those generally accepted as ethical in the United States, could interrupt, or otherwise disrupt, the shipment of finished products to us or damage our reputation. Any of these, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In that regard, most of the products sold in our stores are manufactured overseas, primarily in Asia and Central America, which may increase the risk that the labor practices followed by the manufacturers of these products may differ from those considered acceptable in the United States. Additionally, our products are subject to regulation of and regulatory standards set by various governmental authorities with respect to quality and safety. Regulations and standards in this area are currently in place. These regulations and standards may change from time to time. Our inability to comply on a timely basis with regulatory requirements could result in significant fines or penalties, which could adversely affect our reputation and sales. Issues with the quality and safety of merchandise we sell in our stores, regardless of our culpability, or customer concerns about such issues, could result in damage to our reputation, lost sales, uninsured product liability claims or losses, merchandise recalls and increased costs. Our failure to adequately anticipate a correct mix of private label merchandise may have a material adverse effect on our business. Sales from private label merchandise accounted for 15.7% of our net sales in fiscal 2009. We may take steps to increase the percentage of net sales of private label merchandise in the future, although there can be no 17 assurance that we will be able to achieve increases in private label merchandise sales as a percentage of net sales. Because our private label merchandise generally carries higher gross margins than other merchandise, our failure to anticipate, identify and react in a timely manner to fashion trends with our private label merchandise, would likely have a material adverse effect on our comparable store sales, financial condition and results of operations. Most of our merchandise is produced by foreign manufacturers, therefore the availability and costs of these products may be negatively affected by risks associated with international trade and other international conditions. Most of our merchandise is produced by manufacturers around the world. Some of these facilities are located in regions that may be affected by natural disasters, political instability or other conditions that could cause a disruption in trade. Trade restrictions such as increased tariffs or quotas, or both, could also affect the importation of merchandise generally and increase the cost and reduce the supply of merchandise available to us. Any reduction in merchandise available to us or any increase in its cost due to tariffs, quotas or local issues that disrupt trade could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Although the prices charged by vendors for the merchandise we purchase are all denominated in United States dollars, a continued decline in the relative value of the United States dollar to foreign currencies could lead to increased merchandise costs, which could negatively affect our competitive position and our results of operation. If our information systems hardware or software fails to function effectively or does not scale to keep pace with our planned growth, our operations could be disrupted and our financial results could be harmed. Over the past several years, we have made improvements to our infrastructure and existing hardware and software systems, as well as implemented new systems. If these or any other information systems and software do not work effectively, this could adversely impact the promptness and accuracy of our transaction processing, financial accounting and reporting and our ability to manage our business and properly forecast operating results and cash requirements. To manage the anticipated growth of our operations and personnel, we may need to continue to improve our operational and financial systems, transaction processing, procedures and controls, and in doing so could incur substantial additional expenses that could impact our financial results. Our inability or failure to protect our intellectual property or our infringement of other’s intellectual property could have a negative impact on our operating results. We believe that our trademarks and domain names are valuable assets that are critical to our success. The unauthorized use or other misappropriation of our trademarks or domain names could diminish the value of the Zumiez brand, our store concept, our private label brands or our goodwill and cause a decline in our net sales. Although we have secured or are in the process of securing protection for our trademarks and domain names in a number of countries outside of the United States, there are certain countries where we do not currently have or where we do not currently intend to apply for protection for certain trademarks or at all. Also, the efforts we have taken to protect our trademarks may not be sufficient or effective. Therefore, we may not be able to prevent other persons from using our trademarks or domain names outside of the United States, which also could adversely affect our business. We are also subject to the risk that we may infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties. Any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us, whether or not it has merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product delays or require us to pay royalties or license fees. As a result, any such claim could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. The effects of war or acts of terrorism could adversely affect our business. Substantially all of our stores are located in shopping malls. Any threat of terrorist attacks or actual terrorist events, particularly in public areas, could lead to lower customer traffic in shopping malls. In addition, local authorities or mall management could close shopping malls in response to security concerns. Mall closures, as well as lower customer traffic due to security concerns, would likely result in decreased sales. Additionally, the 18 escalation of the armed conflicts in the Middle East, or the threat, escalation or commencement of war or other armed conflict elsewhere, could significantly diminish consumer spending, and result in decreased sales for us. Decreased sales would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The outcome of litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business and may result in substantial costs and could divert management’s attention. We are involved, from time to time, in litigation incidental to our business including complaints filed by investors. This litigation could result in substantial costs, and could divert management’s attention and resources, which could harm our business. Risks associated with legal liability are often difficult to assess or quantify, and their existence and magnitude can remain unknown for significant periods of time. While we maintain director and officer insurance for litigation surrounding investor lawsuits, the amount of insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover a claim and the continued availability of this insurance cannot be assured. The Company also maintains other forms of insurance that have historically been adequate to address lawsuits, however, there can be no assurance that the actual outcome of pending or future litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Our operations expose us to the risk of litigation which could lead to significant potential liability and costs that could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. We employ a substantial number of full-time and part-time employees, a majority of whom are employed at our store locations. As a result, we are subject to a large number of federal and state laws and regulations relating to employment. This creates a risk of potential claims that we have violated laws related to discrimination and harassment, health and safety, wage and hour laws, criminal activity, personal injury and other claims. We are also subject to other types of claims in the ordinary course of our business. Some or all of these claims may give rise to litigation, which could be time-consuming for our management team, costly and harmful to our business. In addition, we are exposed to the risk of class action litigation. The costs of defense and the risk of loss in connection with class action suits are greater than in single-party litigation claims. Due to the costs of defending against such litigation, the size of judgments that may be awarded against us, and the loss of significant management time devoted to such litigation, we cannot assure you that such litigation will not disrupt our business or impact our financial results. Our ecommerce operations subject us to numerous risks that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Although ecommerce sales constitute a small portion of our overall sales, our ecommerce operations subject us to certain risks that could have an adverse effect on our operational results, including: • diversion of traffic and sales from our stores; • liability for online content; and • risks related to the computer systems that operate our website and related support systems, including computer viruses and electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. In addition, risks beyond our control, such as governmental regulation of the ecommerce, entry of our vendors in the ecommerce business in competition with us, online security breaches and general economic conditions specific to the ecommerce and online commerce could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 19 We have incurred and will continue to incur significant expenses as a result of being a public company, which will negatively impact our financial performance. We completed our initial public offering in May 2005 and we have incurred and could continue to incur significant legal, accounting, insurance and other expenses as a result of being a public company. Rules and regulations implemented by the SEC and The NASDAQ Global Select Market, has required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. Compliance with these laws could cause us to incur significant costs and expenses, including legal and accounting costs, and could make some compliance activities more time-consuming and costly. These rules and regulations may make it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as officers. As a result, we may incur significant legal, accounting, insurance and certain other expenses on an ongoing basis, which would negatively impact our financial performance and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Failure to maintain adequate financial and management processes and controls could lead to errors in our financial reporting and could harm our ability to manage our expenses. Reporting obligations as a public company and our anticipated growth are likely to place a considerable strain on our financial and management systems, processes and controls, as well as on our personnel. In addition, we are required to document and test our internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 so that our management can certify as to the effectiveness of our internal controls and our independent registered public accounting firm can render an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting on an annual basis. This process requires us to document our internal controls over financial reporting and to potentially make significant changes thereto, if applicable. As a result, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur substantial expenses to test our financial controls and systems, and we have been and in the future may be required to improve our financial and managerial controls, reporting systems and procedures, to incur substantial expenses to make such improvements and to hire additional personnel. If our management is ever unable to certify the effectiveness of our internal controls or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot render an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, or if material weaknesses in our internal controls are ever identified, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and our stock price. In addition, if we do not maintain adequate financial and management personnel, processes and controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial performance on a timely basis, which could cause a decline in our stock price and adversely affect our ability to raise capital. The security of our databases that contain personal information of our retail customers could be breached, which could subject us to adverse publicity, litigation, and expenses. In addition, if we are unable to comply with security standards created by the credit card industry, our operations could be adversely affected. Database privacy, network security and identity theft are matters of growing public concern. In an attempt to prevent unauthorized access to our network and databases containing confidential, third-party information, we have installed privacy protection systems, devices and activity monitoring on our network. Nevertheless, if unauthorized parties gain access to our networks or databases, they may be able to steal, publish, delete or modify our private and sensitive third-party information. In such circumstances, we could be held liable to our customers or other parties or be subject to regulatory or other actions for breaching privacy rules. This could result in costly investigations and litigation, civil or criminal penalties and adverse publicity that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and reputation. Further, if we are unable to comply with the security standards, established by banks and the credit card industry, we may be subject to fines, restrictions and expulsion from card acceptance programs, which could adversely affect our retail operations. 20 The current uncertainty surrounding the United States economy coupled with cyclical economic trends in action sports retailing could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The action sports retail industry historically has been subject to substantial cyclicality. As economic conditions in the United States change, the trends in discretionary consumer spending become unpredictable and discretionary consumer spending could be reduced due to uncertainties about the future. When discretionary consumer spending is reduced, purchases of action sports apparel and related products may decline. The current recession in the U.S. economy and increased government debt spending may result in economic uncertainties that could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial position. Because of this cycle, we believe the “value” message has become more important to consumers. As a retailer that sells 85% branded merchandise, this trend may negatively affect our business as we generally will have to charge more than vertically integrated private label retailers. We may fail to meet analyst expectations, which could cause the price of our stock to decline. Our common stock is traded publicly and various securities analysts follow our financial results and issue reports on us. These reports include information about our historical financial results as well as the analysts’ estimates of our future performance. The analysts’ estimates are based upon their own opinions and are often different from our estimates or expectations. If our operating results are below the estimates or expectations of public market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline. In December 2007, a securities class action litigation and associated derivative lawsuits was brought against us and such actions are frequently brought against other companies following a decline in the market price of their securities. These lawsuits were dismissed with prejudice in March 2009. If our stock price is volatile, we may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Any litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources that are needed to successfully run our business. The trading price of our investment in marketable securities may fluctuate. We have our excess cash invested in diversified high quality money market accounts, U.S. treasuries, U.S. government agency enterprises, certificates of deposit, municipal bonds and auction rate securities. The investments have historically been considered very safe investments with minimal default rates. However, the uncertainties in the credit markets have prevented us and other investors from liquidating holdings of auction rate securities in recent auctions for these securities because the amount of securities submitted for sale has exceeded the amount of purchase orders. As of January 30, 2010, we had $0.9 million, net of $0.1 million temporary impairment, invested in an auction rate security that is classified in long-term marketable securities on our consolidated balance sheet. For fiscal 2009, we did not incur an impairment charge on this investment. However, if market liquidity issues continue, we may incur additional impairment charges on this investment in the future. A decline in the market price of our stock and our performance may trigger an impairment of the goodwill recorded on our balance sheet. Goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives must be tested for impairment at least once a year or more frequently if management believes indicators of impairment exist. We evaluate the recoverability of goodwill annually based on a two-step impairment test. The first step compares the fair value of each reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the carrying amount exceeds fair value, then the second step of the impairment test is performed to measure the amount of any impairment loss. Any reduction in the carrying value of our goodwill as a result of our impairment analysis could result in a non-cash goodwill impairment charge to our statement of operations. A goodwill impairment charge could have a significant impact on earnings and potentially result in a violation of our financial covenants, thereby limiting our ability to secure short-term financing. 21 Changes to estimates related to our leasehold improvements and equipment, or operating results that are lower than our current estimates at certain store locations, may cause us to incur non-cash impairment charges. We make certain estimates and projections in connection with impairment analyses for certain of our store locations and other property and equipment. For example, we review for impairment all stores for which current cash flows from operations are either negative or nominal. Recoverability of store assets is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If the carrying amount is higher, impairment loss is measured by the amount, if any, by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds their fair value based on the present value of estimated future discounted cash flows. These calculations require us to make a number of estimates and projections of future results. If these estimates or projections change or prove incorrect, we may be and have been, required to record impairment charges on certain store locations and other property and equipment. If these impairment charges are significant, our operating results would be adversely affected and our bank covenants may be violated. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 